
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 27, Issue 2, pages 83-181. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:27+issue:2+year:1931&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            The Valley of Pogue's Run
            BY HILTON U. BROWN
            
            The Pogue's Run Valley may, for present purposes, be made to include the tracks and switches
                    of the Old Bee Line Railroad, now the Big Four, which ran down 
                        Massachusetts
                     Avenue, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , to a point about opposite Ashland Avenue—once plain Ash
                    Street—and then diverged to the west to the camps north of St. Clair Street. At the point
                    of divergence was the old 
                        Brown
                     homestead, with its background of lumber yards extending back to the
                    "Peru" Railroad, later the 
                        Wabash
                    , still later the L. E. & W., now the Nickle Plate. There too a switch diverged,
                    known as 
                        Brown
                    's Switch, that afterwards developed into the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Avenue passenger station.1
            
            That we may not get into the realm of the "Veracious Chronicler" but stay in the
                    field of "unconsidered trifles," let us go back to one, if not the earliest, of
                    the recollections, involving as it does an act of kindness on the part of the writer's
                    father that grows in significance as the years throw their mellowing influence over the passions of
                    war. Confederate prisoners from Ft. Donelson were en route under guard to Camp
                    Morton. It appears that they were transferred from one train to another at the switch in the avenue
                    referred to above. When the transfer was completed, observed by childish eyes from the inside of the
                    high picket fence—How is it that through the intervening years one should remember that
                    the fence was painted dark brown, while important events of the same period are
                    forgotten?—one prisoner remained. He 
                  
                     1 In the interest of local history, it may be recalled here that the
                            Peru Line main track, like the Bee Line tracks in the Avenue, was removed in later years to
                            the east and merged for traffic purpws with the Bee Line in the area now occupied by the Big
                            Four and the Monon.
               
                     was sick and feeble—too ill to walk and with no
                    ambition to escape. Him they placed against the switch stand, sitting on the ground and with no
                    guard. Forlorn and helpless he was. I can remember his ashen face, covered in part with brownish,
                    neglected whiskers. I know now that he must have been young. It was the custom of those days to
                    allow the whiskers to grow and photographs of youthful Civil War soldiers show mature visages that
                    we know were the faces of mere youths. Well, the picture in mind shows my father, a tall rather
                    severe looking man of sixty, opening the brown gate with the funny latch, carrying a pitcher of
                    buttermilk and a glass. Whether that sick boy in butternut clothes came from the cotton fields of 
                        Mississippi
                     or the hills of 
                        Georgia
                    , whether from humble home or pretentious plantation mansion, it is certain that he was
                    no stranger to buttermilk. Eagerly as the gods might sip ambrosia, the weary one took the refreshing
                    drink, a smile of gratitude on his uplifted face. What fate was in store for this poor lad? Were the
                    prayers of a frenzied mother, far away, answered and did he once more see home and friends? Once I
                    finished the story in fancy, but in reality the one scene alone in this drama of the great war was
                    revealed to me. The rest is blotted out and beyond the ken of this life. Peace to the sick soldier
                    and peace to his mother waiting by the fireside for terrible news which she feared might come.
            PENDLETON PIKE
            The old dirt road that is now a paved street continuing 
                        Massachusetts
                     Avenue far out into suburban and country regions is still known as the Pendleton 
                        Pike
                    . Where it crosses the railroad in the angle on the west side of the pike, in the early
                    days was a pond, and on the banks of the pond was a saw mill. From this point extending to the east
                    began a road that became Clifford Avenue and is now Tenth Street. This road saw much traffic for
                    those days of which we speak—traffic of boys going to Pogue's Run for the
                    amusements that all streams afford. Go with me down the Pendleton 
                        Pike
                     and you shall still see Osage orange trees that once were part of the hedge, that
                    surrounded Fletcher's Meadow. It formed a triangle with the point at Pendleton 
                        Pike
                     and Clifford Avenue and with its base lying northeastwardly nearly to the tile factory
                    (of which perhaps not a fragment can now be found).  Near the
                    tile factory was the old Swimmin' Hole in Pogue's Run. In this hole the big boys
                    taught the little how to swim by pitching them headlong from the bank into the deep pool where the
                    horny headed suckers used to take refuge from the noon day heat. John Coburn, nephew and namesake of
                    Congressman Coburn, was my instructor at this pool and my patron saint in other matters. If I could
                    find him I should relieve a guilty conscience by repaying him for a paper ten-cent piece that he was
                    credulous enough to advance on one necessitous circus day. (I wonder what the interest compounded on
                    ten cents for fifty years would be? But then those "shin plasters" were
                    depreciated currency and on that basis either the principal should be diminished or the interest
                    abated. So my remorse is somewhat assuaged!) Perhaps the noisy swimmers became such a nuisance that
                    the tile works people decided to drive them hence. At any rate it was spread abroad that broken
                    glass had been thrown into the pool and no lad durst thereafter go in there.
            Farther up the stream along where park boards have now laid unholy hands on nature were other water
                    holes of no mean fame. Off the banks under the white roots of the sycamores lurked the quick darting
                    sun fish and the sluggish cat. Now and then a red letter day brought a catch of a many finned dog
                    fish which called for murderous triumph. Up there somewhere in the ooze of the stream lie the rusty
                    remains of a once glorious nickeled four-barrelled pistol. It was not a revolver but a
                    "gun" with two parallel barrels in pairs. Never the like of it had been seen on
                    the commons where the "gang" congregated to lay out the day's adventures.
                    It was a sad home coming when all returned from a fishing expedition up-stream without the glorious
                    toy. It had cost me four dollars and no financial loss of later days has caused such calamitous
                    grief.
            MARK BROWN'S HOME RUN
            One day our baseball team traveled into a far country beyond Pogue's Run, where dwelt a
                    strange tribe of giant barbarians that were reputed to have defeated all teams from far and near,
                    and often enough added physical beatings to their victories. This writer (as Brisbane would say) was
                    on the casualty list that day, not playing because of numerous stone bruises on either heel, but he
                    limped to the battlefield and  witnessed one of the most telling
                    victories of that cycle. Creasy's Fifteen Decisive Battles had already
                    been written so this one, of course, could not figure in that list. It happened this way: The
                    "Belgii" in great contempt of the invaders, allowed "Mickey"
                    McCue—no boy's education is complete unless he has rubbed elbows with a
                    "Mickey"—to get to first on a short-stop error.
                    "Mickey" Shea and "Morry" Davis followed with hits. Long armed
                    Demarchus 
                        Brown
                    
               2 came to bat. He was a Goliath as he looms in memory. He must have
                    been eleven years old. There was a pond out beyond center field, which seemed to be far enough away
                    to be in another geographical zone. The batter smote the ball. It must have been the record hit of
                    those Babe Ruthless days. The ball rose higher and higher above all human reach. It sailed in the
                    blue ether toward yonder pool and finally dropped into its waters far from the banks and entirely
                    beyond the reach of the panting fielders who began to arrive one by one but who could only stand and
                    stare. Meantime the four runners had scored at the home plate. The ball was out in the lake. There
                    was no other ball—in those days no team ever had a second ball—and the game
                    perforce came to an end, with the visitors winners and the barbarians humiliated. The pond was long
                    ago filled up and traffic thunders over it. I wonder if some day when archaeologists are excavating
                    to find what manner of men inhabited this region—Oh well, if they do find the ball let
                    some other boy tell that story!
            THE GRUBBS BOY
            Out in that Ultima Thule, the Bee Line had built a mundhouse. To this terra
                    incognita, our wanderings brought us one day. One of my buddies, the Grubbs boy, about as big
                    as an airdale dog, and equally aggressive, climbed up into the cab of an engine in this roundhouse
                    bent on starting the big iron horse. He pulled with might and main at the throttle. Fearing death
                    and destruction and the terrors of the law, I pleaded with him to descend and flee the wrath to
                    come, but he would not until he found that he could not move the lever and that there was no steam
                    on anyway. So that threatened tragedy passed over our heads and we lived to become witnesses of
                    other things. I wonder what would have happened if the 
                  
                     2 Brother of the writer, wid in later years State Librarian.
               
                     engine had started? It is suggestive of the small dog barking
                    fiercely as he pursues a train or automobile. What would he do with it if he caught it?
            POGUE'S RUN ALL SUFFICIENT
            As I think of it now Pogue's Run was all sufficient. It provided fishing, swimming and
                    skating and its devotees rarely strayed off to the canal or to the more pretentious waters at Broad
                    Cut and the aqueduct. There was much more water in the stream then than now and exploring parties
                    sometimes went far up toward the headwaters though I do not know that anybody found them. The course
                    of the stream lay in deep woods and only in spots did the sun break through to dapple the waters.
                    Walnut and sycamore and oak with underbrush of haw and spice wood and pawpaw made up the glorious
                    jungle where a small boy could lose himself so easily and so happily.
            But a boy can always find or make a path even in the trackless woods, And how long is the path that
                    he makes? Even if one still be in the heyday of youth, he has traversed leagues upon leagues. What
                    good servants are a boy's two legs, whether short or long, even if the knees be
                    "knocked" and the feet cut and bruised. Using these vehicles we traveled one day
                    toward the source of the Run. The eldest of the Gang, Millard Davis, was privileged to carry fire
                    arms. The favorite shot gun of the period was the obsolete Civil War muzzle-loading musket to be had
                    from the Government's over-supply at four dollars. This gun, bored out, made a powerful
                    weapon that would carry shot in a compact mass to the top of the tallest tree and to the utter
                    destruction, when the aim was good, of squirrel or bird lurking there. It required a long iron
                    ramrod to drive home the charge or to clean out the barrel easily fouled with black powder. Millard
                    had one of these guns. Midday of the hunt, the ramrod became jammed in the barrel. The
                    "smaller fry" meantime squatted in the grass awaiting resumption of hostilities.
                    Did you ever see a bullet in flight? Tracer bullets are easily descried and I have heard soldiers
                    say that they have seen rolling cannon balls, half Gent, and sometimes shells in the air. Up to the
                    day of the big hunt, I had seen nothing of this sort. Millard could not get the ramrod out of the
                    barrel, Stuck fast deep in moist, smelly burnt pow'der, the iron shaft  could not be budged. Back of it was a charge of fresh powder, well
                    wadded. In a frenzy of impatience over the stubborn rod, Millard suddenly put a percussion cap on
                    the tube, put the gun to his shoulder, pulled the trigger! The gun did not burst but everything else
                    happened. The woods shuddered at the discharge. The ramrod, suddenly coming to life, leaped from the
                    barrel and sailed through the air clipping off boughs of trees and passing finally out of our sight
                    but still gaining momentum and rising into the tips of the trees of the forest. Millard was
                    "kicked" almost as far in the other direction, rolling down hill and crushing May
                    apples and spice wood in his rapid and unwilling flight, The gun without a ramrod was useless and
                    four disconsolate boys made their sad journey, infinitely lengthened, back to town. I have wondered,
                    too, what became of that ramrod, and whether some day it may not be found, like the arrow in an oak
                    and still unbroke.
            BRIGHTWOOD POOL
            A pool indented the earth up somewhere in the neighborhood of Brightwood. It was a deep black hole
                    alongside the Bee Line track. So far as I know, I was the Balboa of that miniature and peaceful sea.
                    How it was that I turned up there alone and with hook and line I do not now understand. It was miles
                    from home, but it paid. The pond was a natural aquarium. I no sooner dropped hook into water than a
                    deep tug showed results. Is there anything that gives such a thrill as a sure enough
                    "bite"? The pool was full of sunfish about as big as a hand—a small
                    boy's hand, probably—and my luck in pulling them out was so amazing that in a
                    mixed frenzy of fear and joy, like a poacher unapprehended but guilty, I fled home with my string of
                    fish, leaving I do not know how many hungry mouths unfed. No sign or trace of that paradise remains.
                    Perhaps I saved some of its denizens from an earthly grave.
            THE ROLL CALL
            Industry established itself at 
                        Massachusetts
                     Avenue and the Pendleton 
                        Pike
                     long before the town reached that point. I have mentioned the pond and the saw mill
                    there. A faint sweet odor of sawdust still hangs over the place but apparently only one pair of
                    olfactories is conscious of it, There was but  one house in the
                    immediate vicinity, a gray brick as it is faintly recalled. In it lived the Hanna family. A real
                    historian or antiquarian could and would follow this clue and ascertain definite facts. The
                    tradition is that "old Mr. Hanna," whoever he may have been, was deaf. The first
                    tragedy of my youth was the death of this veteran on the railroad tracks nearby.
            I speak of him as "old". This is one of the prerogatives and errors of youth. One
                    of my children once cautioned me, stroking her long imaginary whiskers, not to "get old and
                    forty"! Some of you may remember Mr. Rust who was once principal of old No. 3 (or was it
                    No. 4?) school. The boys in that school called him "Old Rust". This was more than
                    fifty years ago. Twenty-five or thirty years later I met Mr. Rust, then engaged in business here in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He was still almost young. He could not have been more than twenty years old when the
                    boys were calling him "Old Rust". So "old Mr. Hanna" may have
                    been young but childish minds envisioned him a decrepit Methuselah with the big wood-burner engine
                    creeping down and crushing him.
            What became of all the ponds, springs and swimming pools which a merciful providence and bounteous
                    nature provided for pioneer boys? Before gasoline, cameras and matinees, there were green grass,
                    "books in running brooks and good in everything," for the gang. Where are
                    witnesses that might set me right? My own brother that swam with me, played with me and fought with
                    me? Where is "Mickey" McCue that had kissed the Blarney stone before fate
                    transported him across seas and dropped him in this far away Mississippi
                    valley? Where now is Jim Rose that came out from "East-side" 
                        New York
                     and became the first white boy in 
                        Indianapolis
                     to dust his shoes with his handkerchief? Where Henry Co-burn, Jr., who had lived among
                    Indians and who taught us how to make hickory bows and lead-beaded arrows ? I call the roll but no
                    voice replies. Am I then, youngest and most timid, who was forced to pluck the
                    "mumbley-peg" with my teeth from the sod on the common that stretched from the ash
                    tree at Bellefontaine Street to the big elm just outside of Felie Otto's home onOak
                        Street,3 the sole survivor of that gallant band?
            As I close this paper, so I might close my eyes and still see 
                  
                     3 Felie Otto's name was probably Ophelia,
                            but no one called her by that name. She was known simply as Felie.
                  
               
                     the Valley of Pogue's Run as it was—not
                    perhaps as Pogue saw it, but as early generations of the capital city's old settlers saw
                    it—when brick walks and bouldered roadways were the rare but highest expression of
                    community life, when the con-estoga wagon was not a relic, when the Wernwag wooden bridge was not
                    archaic and when there was some chance for a boy to discover nature and explore its mysteries.
         
         
         
            Daniel W. Voorhees
            BY FRANK SMITH BOGARDUS
            
            From the beginning of the Civil War, President Lincoln assumed the power of ordering the military
                    authority to arrest persons suspected of treason. These persons were held in confinement without
                    regard to the constitutional right of the writ of habeas corpus. The civil courts
                    decided against this action but had no way of enforcing their decisions. By September, 1862,
                    opposition to the measures of the Government had reached such a point in the North that the
                    President issued a proclamation calling for the arrest and trial by military authority of persons
                    discouraging enlistment or opposing the draft. The privilege of habeas corpus was
                    withdrawn on the ground of military necessity. Many arrests were made. There was much popular
                    opposition to this policy and Congress took up the question. On March 3, 1863, an act was passed
                    sustaining the President for his arbitrary use of the military power in the matter of arrests, but
                    restricting his power for the future. During the debate on this measure Daniel W. Voorhees of
                    Indiana spoke in the following terms of the President's policy: 
                        Sir, I challenge the worst ages of the profligate and corrupt despots for a
                            more intolerable picture of personal outrage than is here presented. In
                            prisons, in dungeons, in cells, in solitude, and desolation of heart, citizens of this free
                            country are threatened with increased punishment if they resort to the only possible mode of
                            approaching those in power to obtain information or trial with a view to liberty. Many new
                            offenses, unknown to the constitution and the laws have been created by the proclamation of
                            the executive; and to these it must be added that it is a crime for an innocent man,
                            overpowered by unlawful force, and wearing away his life in prison to employ counsel to
                            secure for him the benefit of the laws of the land. Sir, posterity will hold in remembrance
                            the authors of these outrages—The President and his cabinet—in order
                            to execrate the prostitution which they have made of their high offices to the overthrow of
                            the constitution. When they retire from their exalted positions,… let them spend
                            the evening of their days in pondering over the wretchedness they have so needlessly and
                            wantonly caused. Let them recall the tears of bitter grief, bereavement, and shame which
                            they have caused delicate and tender women to weep…. Let them visit the madhouse,
                            and listen to the shrieks and cries of their inmates, as they pour forth their wailhgs from
                            the shattered  dome of thought, and in that saddest sight
                            which earth can present—a mind in ruins—behold a portion of their
                            handiwork which will accompany their names into history. And if dreams come to them in their
                            slumbers, let them dream of the poor suicide, who communed in solitude with his sad heart
                            until his room became filled with shadows and impalpable forms, which mocked his agony and
                            despair, and who, to escape from his unlawful imprisonment, launched his naked soul into the
                            mysterious realms of the infinite and appeared for trial before a compassionate God. Let
                            them awaken to hear the heartbroken sobs of the widow, and the pitiful lamentations of the
                            fatherless. Let them make some atonement for the grief they have inflicted by looking into
                            all the detailed horrors which their system of infernal outrage has brought on unoffending
                                women.1
                  
                    
            
            Who was this man Voorhees who thus violently denounced President Lincoln and his Cabinet for the
                    suspension of the precious writ and for other arbitrary actions? Can you picture in the
                    mind's eye a big man over six feet tall, thick chested, with massive frame, with fair hair
                    and beard, thirty-six years of age, at the very prime of life, defiantly facing a hostile majority
                    of members in the national House of Representatives and offering to them this scathing rebuke? It
                    was not the only time that Voorhees of western Indiana, in the midst of the grim and terrible
                    conflict, dared to offer caustic criticism of the administration of Lincoln and the majority party
                    in Congress. This attitude of opposition coupled with his great oratorical powers caused people to
                    ask, "Whence Comes he?"
            Daniel Wolsey Voorhees was born in 
                  Butler county, Ohio
               , in 1827. He died in 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., in 1897. The family, of Revolutionary stock, was caught in the westward rush of
                    pioneers seeking cheap land and located in 
                        Fountain County
                    , Indiana, when Daniel was a mere babe. The father, Stephen Voorhees, was the son of
                    Peter Voorhees of 
                        New Jersey
                    .2 The mother was Rachel Elliott of 
                        Maryland
                    . They settled in the neighborhood of 
                        Covington
                    . Young Voorhees grew up on the farm, entered into all the typical pioneer farm
                    boy's experiences and landed at Indiana Asbury College, now DePauw University. Here he was
                    graduated in 1849. He made something of a reputation as an orator in his college days. It is of
                    record that his class mates and professors expected unusual things of him. Upon graduation he took
                    up the study of law at Craw-fordsvilla in the office of Lane and Wilson.3
            
            
               
                  1
                        Cong. Globe, 87 Cong., 8 Sess., 1057.
               
                  2 H. C. Bradsby, History of 
                                Vigo County
                            
                   (
                            Chicago
                        , 1891), 979.
               
                  3
                        Ibid., 980. The law partners were Henry S. Lane and James Wilson.
            
            
            
               
                        Covington
                     was then one of the most promising towns in western Indiana and there young Voorhees
                    chose to set out his shingle and undertake the practice of law. He came under the notice of the
                    ill-starred Edward A. Hannegan, also of 
                        Covington
                    , who had already served two terms in the House and one term in the Senate of the
                    national Congress and who had the reputation of being one of the outstanding orators of the Nation.
                    Hannegan heard Voorhees deliver a Fourth of July speech and was so impressed with his ability as a
                    public speaker that he invited Voorhees to become his partner. Voorhees accepted and the connection
                    was made. In 1853 Voorhees was appointed prosecuting-attorney for the local Circuit Court by
                    Governor Joseph A. Wright.4 This marks the entrance of Voorhees into the field
                    of politics. While holding this office, in 1856, he received the Democratic nomination for Congress
                    and was beaten by two hundred thirty votes, after an intense and dramatic campaign, by James Wilson
                    of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . These two men stumped their district in a series of joint debates that in a very
                    curious fashion anticipated the battle of Lincoln and Douglas in the senatorial campaign of 1858.
                    The story of the campaign by Voorhees and Wilson is charmingly told by Henry Lane Wilson in the Indiana Magazine of History for June, 1928.5
            
            Voorhees, suffering the bitterness of defeat, was invited by Judge Elisha M. Huntington of the 
                        Vigo County
                     bar to move to 
                        Terre Haute
                    . He accepted and in 1857 removed to that city, where he maintained his residence to the
                    time of his death. His chosen field of action was the bar of the criminal court where he quickly
                    became eminent as a skilled and eloquent advocate.
            The break between Buchanan and Douglas over the Le-comptive Constitution was the occasion for
                    Voorhees receiving his first recognition from the Federal Government. At this time Alvin P. Hovey
                    was 
                        United States
                     Attorney for the district of Indiana. He was a strong Douglas man and made himself so
                    obnoxious to the Buchanan people that in 1858, Buchanan removed Hovey and appointed Voorhees as his
                    successor. This indicates that Voorhees was now being recognized as a leader of some importance in
                    the ranks of the Democratic Party of the state. In 1860 and again in 1862 he was 
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 980.
                  
                     5 The title of the article is "An Early Indiana Political
                            Contest" in XXIV, 96-404.
               
                     elected to represent the seventh Indiana district in the
                    national House of Representatives. This district consisted of the following counties:
                            
                  Clay, Greene
               , Owen, 
                        Putnam
                    , Parke, Sullivan, 
                        Vermillion
                     and Vigo. In 1864 he was a candidate to succeed himself and his supporters claimed that
                    he had a clear majority of over six hundred votes.6 However, his election was
                    successfully contested by Colonel Henry D. Washburn and the Republicans in Congress sent Mr.
                    Voorhees back home. This action took place on February 22, 1866, after Pres. Johnson had vetoed the
                    Freedmen's Bureau Bill. It was alleged that Thaddeus Stevens, then leader of the Radicals
                    in the House, informed Voorhees that this seat was necessary in order to give a two-thirds majority
                    to wield against President Johnson.7 The attacks on Thaddeus Stevens and his
                    following by Voorhees had been so bitter that it is not difficult to see why they picked him for the
                    sacrifice. In 1866 he was not a candidate, but in 1868 and 1870, he was successful. It is
                    interesting to note that the Grant electors received a majority of three hundred five votes in 
                        Vigo County
                     in 1868, while Voorhees' majority over Carter was one hundred twenty-eight.8 Once more in 1872, he was a candidate for the same office but fell a victim to
                    the Democratic coalition with the Liberal Republicans of that year, Many Democrats did not accept
                    the position of their party in endorsing Greeley for President and stayed away from the polls. This
                    probably explains the defeat of Voorhees by General Morton C. Hunter.9 The
                    attitude of Voorhees toward a possible fusion of Democrats and Liberal Republicans was indicated
                    very early in a letter to his friend, J. C. Briggs, of 
                        Terre Haute
                    : "The idea that I would support Grant under any circumstances seems too
                    ridiculous for consideration. The reason why I will not support Greeley is that he is no better than
                    Grant in some respects and on some points he is worse."10 This was a
                    positive declaration but like a good many other politicians, Voorhees could accommodate himself to
                    circumstances. When the Democratic National Convention at 
                        Baltimore
                     endorsed Greeley and 
                        Brown
                    , he had to submit. He attended the district convention at 
                  Spencer, Owen County
               ,
                        
                  
                     6 A. B. Carleton, in a sketch of Voorhees printed as an introduction
                            to Speeches of aniel W. Voorhees of Indiana (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1873). compiled by his son Charles S. Voorhees, p.x.
                  
                     7 Bradsby, 
                                
                                    Vigo County
                                
                            , 980.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 396.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 980.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 397.
               
                     Indiana, and was placed in nomination for Congress. He made a
                    speech in which he said that he would not retract or qualify a word he had said about Greely, but
                    that his anti-Greely epeech in Congress was directed to the 
                        Baltimore
                     Convention and that now he fully recognized that it [the 
                        Baltimore
                     Convention] had full authority to control Democratic voters.11 To
                    further show the spirit of accommodation he presided at a Greeley meeting in 
                        Indianapolis
                     when Greeley was present.
            From 1872 to 1876, Voorhees devoted himself to the practice of law in Teme Haute. It was during this
                    period that he made some of his most famous pleas as a criminal lawyer. In 1877 Oliver P. Morton, 
                        United States
                     Senator from Indiana, died and Governor Williams appointed Voorhees as his successor.
                    Voorhees completed Morton's term and continued to hold the office for the eighteen
                    succeeding years, being elected for three successive terms. It was his fortune to defeat Benjamin
                        Harrison for the office in 1878, but he was in time beaten by Charles W.
                    Fairbanks in 1897. A few months later he died in 
                        Washington
                     and was buried in 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Thus it appears that Voorhees served four terms in the House of Representatives and a
                    little more than three terms in the 
                        United States
                     Senate. Judge Thomas B. Long declared that, "From his first nomination to
                    Congress in 1856, he never, in any of the conventions in which his name was presented as a candidate
                    for the House or Senate, had opposition in his own party."12
            
            Such, in outline, was the life of Daniel W. Voorhees. In his views on political and social questions
                    it must be admitted that he accurately represented the sentiments of the Indiana Democracy during
                    the war and during the period of reconstruction. His fear and dislike of the negro was only equaled
                    by his hatred of the abolitionist. In his famous defense of John E. Cook in connection with the
                    Harper's Ferry raid, [1859] Voorhees uncorked the vials of his wrath and poured their
                    contents upon the devoted heads of the abolitionists. Cook, a brother of Governor Ashbel P.
                    Willard's wife, but one of John Brown's followers, was wounded, captured, and held
                    for trial. Willard called upon Voorhees to defend Cook in the famous trial at 
                  Charlestown, Virginia
               . Voorhees heeded the 
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 398.
                  
                     12 See a sketch of Vmheea by Judge Thomas B. Long, printed as an
                            introductory chapter in Forty Years of Oratorg: Daniel W. Voorhees (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1898), edited by his sons and daughter, I. 6.
               
                     call and took a prominent part in the trial. In brief, he laid
                    the blame on 
                        Brown
                     and the anti-slavery leaders of the North. Hear him: 
                        But, gentlemen, in estimating the magnitude of this young man's guilt, there is one
                            fact which is proven in his behalf by the current history of the day which you can not fail
                            to consider. Shall John E. Cook perish and the real criminals who for twenty years have
                            taught the principles on which he acted hear no voice from this spot? Shall this occasion
                            pass away, and the prime felons who attacked your soil and murdered your citizens at
                            Harper's Ferry escape? False and malignant counsels have been dropping for years as
                            deadly and blighting as the poison of the Bohun Upas tree, from tongues of evil and
                            traitorous persons in that section of the union in which the prisoner belongs. They have
                            seduced not only his mind but many others. On the skirts of the leaders of
                            abolition-fanaticism in the North is every drop of blood shed in the conflict at
                            Harper's Ferry: on their souls rests the crime of murder for every life
                            lost." He names Wendell Phillips, William H. Seward, Joshua R. Giddings, Beecher,
                            Parker, Sumner, and lays the burden of guilt upon them. "Midnight gloom is no more
                            somber in contrast with the blazing light of the meridian sun than is the guilt of such a
                            man in comparison with that which overwhelmed the prisoner. They put in motion the maelstrom
                            which has engulfed him. They started the torrent which has borne him over the precipice.
                            They called forth from the caverns of the deep the tempest which wrecked him on a sunken
                            reef. Before God, and in the light of Eternal Truth, the disaster at Harper's Ferry
                            is their act and not his. May the ghost of each victim to their doctrines of disunion and
                            abomination sit heavy on their guilty souls….13
                  
                    
            
            With this soul-moving denunciation, Voorhees left the case to the jury. While old John Brown was
                    convicted of murder and treason, Cook was found guilty of murder only. Governor Wise of 
                        Virginia
                     refused to extend clemency and Cook was hanged. This thrilling and impassioned defense
                    of Cook placed Voorhees in the front rank of special advocates at the bar of the country. The next
                    day he awoke to find himself famous. The fame thus secured has only enhanced in subsequent cases
                    such as the Mary Harris case, the Harry C. Black case, and the Edward T. Johnson case, until it may
                    truthfully be said that Voorhees stood without a peer in this species of forensic prowess.
            In considering the life and work of Voorhees, we must not lose sight of the fact that he represented
                    a district whose people were predominately of southern stock and sympathies. Most of his
                    constituents disliked and distrusted the negro, 
                  
                     13 Speeches of Vomheea, 1.
               
                     hated the abolitionists and believed firmly in the doctrine of
                    state rights. Regarding inter-sectional disputes they believed that they should be settled on the
                    principle of compromise and they were deeply impressed with the doctrine of equality of all the
                    states. To all of this Voorhees most heartily subscribed. With sublime racial egotism, he asserted,
                    in his oration called "The American Citizen" that,14
                    "Free government occupying the wholesome medium ground between anarchy and the licentious
                    violence of the unrestrained populace on the one hand and rigid tyranny on the other, has been aimed
                    at and sought after but never fully attained until the Anglo-Saxon race laid its hands on the
                    destiny of the world and became the champion of liberalized civilization." Then well-seated
                    on the back of his oratorical Pegasus he soared away in denunciation of that "false and
                    pernicious system of political ethics, which proclaims as its favorite dogma the unqualified
                    equality of the whole human family." True, he had a little trouble with the Declaration of
                    Independence but succeeded in evolving a "reasonable and sensible" construction of
                    that instrument which proved highly gratifying to an audience of slave-holders.
            Furthermore, Voorhees was opposed to abolition whenever enacted into law by Congress. In a Philippic
                    called the "Conscript Act" delivered on February 23, 1863, he let loose the reins
                    of passion and indulged his genius for denunciation to the full. He denounced the Republican party
                    for abolishing slavery in the Territories and in the District of 
                        Columbia
                    . He denounced it for recognizing the negro governments of 
                        Liberia
                     and Haitii. He denounced Lincoln's plan for compensated emancipation: 
                        Sir, will this madness never cease? Can you learn nothing by experience, that school-master
                            which teaches the most foolish? Sir, I say here and now that not one dollar, not one cent,
                            will the people I represent ever pay to 
                                Missouri
                            , to 
                                Maryland
                            , or to any other state, to purchase their slaves. And you can not make them.
                            Please remember this. You can not lawfully add untold millions to our taxes for that
                            purpose; and the people will repudiate this illegitimate item of expensive
                                fanaticism."16
                  
                    
            
            His comment on Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation was as follows: 
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 27.
                  
                     15
                            Cong. Globe, 37 Gong., 3 Sess., 1229.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 87 Cong., 2 Sess., 1150.
               
                    
                    
                        Ten days before he issued it he said that he had not the power to promulgate such a document
                            and that it would do no good if he did. In that he was right for once. But I suppose he gave
                            way to pressure. Yes, pressure. He was pressed. By whom? By Horace Greeley, that political
                            harlot, who appeared in a praying attitude in behalf of twenty millions of people.17
                  
                    
            
            He also commented caustically on Lincoln's lack of backbone and attributed the necessity of
                    the draft to the policy of abolition: "You purpose to put the black man along side of the
                    loyal white soldier. You purpose to buy negroes, steal negroes, fight for negroes, obtain negroes in
                    any way and then humiliate and disgrace the white soldier by his presence and contact in the
                    ranks." In order to make this burst of fervid rhetoric complete he accused the
                    administration of being, "rankly disloyal to the Constitution" and wound up by
                    making a threat of armed resistance to the government if it attempted to enforce the draft.18 Can anyone question the statement that Voorhees feared and distrusted the
                    negro and opposed emancipation with all his strength?
            In January, 1865, emancipation was before the House of Representatives in the form of the Thirteenth
                    Amendment. The proposed Amendment had passed the Senate in 1864, but had been defeated in the lower
                    branch. Voorhees watching the progress of the Union armies, had been driven by the iron logic of
                    events to admit that slavery was doomed. All through the struggle, he had been hoping that the
                    people would rise against Lincoln and repudiate his policy in the election of 1864. Instead of this
                    Lincoln and Johnson came through with two hundred and twelve electoral votes to twenty-one for
                    McClel-lan and Pendleton. This might not mean approval of Lincoln's plans for
                    reconstruction but it undoubtedly did mean that the voters intended to stand by him until the war
                    was ended. They were determined to save the Union.
            The reelection of Lincoln was the severest blow Voorhees had suffered. In a speech on January 9,
                    1865, he admitted that Lincoln told the people in advance of the election, that his re-election
                    meant the overthrow of the institution of slavery and that now the blood and treasure of the country
                    was to be devoted to that purpose. Voorhees then tried to make the best of the situation by
                    proclaiming his own indifference so 
                  
                     17
                            bid., 903-907.
                  
                     18
                            lbid., 87 Cong., 8 Sears., 189.
               
                     far as the existence of the institution of slavery was
                    concerned, but declared that he would vote against the pending amendment on the ground that this was
                    not the proper time to amend the Constitution.19
            
            Dr. James A. Woodburn, the honored President of our Historical Society, years ago prepared a study of
                    "Party Politics in Indiana During the Civil War."20 He put the
                    Democrats into three groups: first, War Democrats, or those who believed in a vigorous prosecution
                    of the war and who were ready to fuse with the Republicans in a Union party; second,
                    "Copperheads," or those who favored only a defensive war, opposed a war for the
                    Union, favored conciliation and compromise, sympathized with the South and were willing to commit
                    overt acts in order to slow up the war for the Union; third, Constitutional-Union Democrats, or
                    those who had favored concession, conciliation, and compromises in the years before the war. The
                    last group meant to save the Union by this means rather than by war but they would and did fight to
                    save the Union. While they abhorred a war to free the negro or to subjugate the South still they had
                    a deep and sincere devotion to the Union which led them in large numbers into the Union armies when
                    they saw that the question would not be settled by compromise and conciliation.
            Let those who doubt the utter loyalty of these people look at the table of enlistments given in
                    Professor Esarey's work on Indiana.21 Call the roll of the counties of
                    the state and you will find that the counties of the old seventh district maintained as high and in
                    many cases a higher proportion of enlistments according to population than the counties in the
                    northern half of the state. Though these thousands of Democrats did not desire to free the slaves
                    nor to subjugate the South, yet they shouldered arms and marched away to fight in
                    "Lincoln's war." They simply could not find it in their hearts to see the
                    Union destroyed. What a bitter choica was theirs! They must face the fact that the fruits of their
                    sufferings and wounds would surely be something they did not believe in, yet the Union must be
                    saved.
            Now, Voorhees can safely be classed in the third group, the Constitutional-Union Democrats, but it
                    must be said that 
                  
                     19
                     Ibid., 38 Cong., 2 Sess., 181.
                  
                     20 American Historical Association, Annual Report,
                            1902, I, 226-261.
                  
                     21 Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 2 vols. 1916-1918), II, 766.
               
                     he showed during the early part of the struggle a strong tinge
                    of copper.22 By the time the war was half over he had gotten to the point where
                    he was willing to vote men and supplies for the prosecution of the war. That he felt keenly the
                    charge of his political opponents to the effect that he was refusing to give reasonable support to
                    the Union armies in the field is shown in a proclamation to the soldiers of Indiana which he issued
                    on September 14th, 1863.
            
                    If any gentleman can find one vote that I ever gave against an appropriation of money for the
                        benefit of the soldier I will resign the seat which I now hold and agree to go out of political
                        life forever. Whatever may have been and still is my opinion as to the origin and the necessity
                        of this war, whatever may be my opinion of the management and the political issues which the
                        party in power seeks to carry out in connection with it, still I have never considered the
                        starving of our soldiers in the field or the stopping of their pay as the proper means of
                        bringing it to a close. During my Congressional life when, and in what instance have I ever
                        failed to render every assistance in my power to the sick, the wounded, and the needy? I have
                        given more dollars in this cause than my traducers have given cents.23
               
                
            But his main arguing point was constitutionality. Being a firm upholder of the state rights theory,
                    he held that the war was unconstitutional in as much as it was being used as a means of coercing
                    sovereign states and of confiscating the property of the southern people. Hence, he claimed that the
                    Democratic party was trying to save the Constitution and that the war party was killing the
                    Constitution. He denied that his country was the physical continent that extended from 
                        Canada
                     to the Gulf of Mexico but asserted that his country was the Constitution.24 The violation of its provisions, its spirit and its intent was to him a species of
                    treason. Hence, if there were any traitors concerned in this difficulty they were those who were
                    proceeding contrary to the Constitution, namely, the war party. This theory of constitutionalism ran
                    through all of his speeches on the subject of the war and formed the basis of all of his opposition
                    to the measures of the government.25
            
            
               
                  22 See William Dudley Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Mortan (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1899), 11, 391-393 (note), for his account of the findiing of disloyal
                        correspondence in the office of Voorhees in 
                            Terre Haute
                        .
               
                  23
                        Weekly 
                                Wabash
                             Ezpvess, Sept. 20, 1863. The statement found here WBS a reply to a
                        scathing article in the Daily Wabask Espress of July 12. 1865, found in which
                        here WBS Voorheea ar accused of failing to support the War.
               
                  24
                        Speeches of Voorhees, 96.
               
                  25 Time forbids following this point further. The reader is referred to
                        Professor Wocdburn's article cited above for additional light.
            
            
            Voorhees was reasonably consistent all the way through. In regard to reconstruction, he heartily
                    supported the policy of Lincoln and Johnson and bitterly denounced the congressional program.26 His oration of March 23, 1872, is a masterly denunciation of the misrule of
                    the military governments in the South.27
            
            He, of course, occupied the traditional Democratic ground of opposition to the protective tariff. His
                    argument of March 19, 1890, would be interesting reading to the farmers of today. He stood, or
                    claimed to stand, as the embattled champion of the farmer against the plutocratic forces of the
                    East. "The compensation to the farmer for the enormous and infernal taxes he has to pay
                    under the tariff on all he needs and all he uses," he proclaimed, "has always been
                    the loud, prolonged, and vehement promises of an eager, remunerative, home-market? The farmer is
                    hunting for it, and mourning because it is not to be found. Home-market! What lies have been told in
                    its name!"28
            
            Voorhees was not interested in civil service reform. He accepted Senator Marcy's famous
                    dictum both in theory and practice. The squabble over the 
                        Terre Haute
                     Post Office when Donham tried to take that berth away from Greiner is a classic
                        illustration.29
            
            Of course he condemned the resumption of specie payments and the anti-greenback policy of the
                    government holding that the whole policy was dictated by the money class, bond-holders and
                    financiers, for their own benefit. He was a friend of silver.30 He never got
                    through talking of the Crime of '73; yet he supported 
                        Cleveland
                     in connection with the repeal of the purchasing Clause of the Sherman Act.31 This seems inconsistent but he solved the inconsistency to his own
                    satisfaction by denying that repeal meant the demonetization of silver.
            The supreme interest in Daniel W. Voorhees is found in two main aspects of his career: his great
                    ability as an advocate and his understanding of the views and desires of the people of southwestern
                    Indiana. In regard to the first, whether he was speaking as a lawyer, pleading for the 
                  
                     26
                            Cong. Record, 42 Cong., 2 Sess., 922.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 39 Cong., 1 Sess., 116-150.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 61 Cong., 1 Sess., 2378.
                  
                     29 Foulke., Fighting the Spolsmen (
                                New York
                            , 1919), 96-98.
                  
                     30
                            Forty Years of Oratory, I, 290: also Cong. Rec., 45
                            Cong., 2 Sess., 604, 838.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., 63 Cong., 1 Sess., 689.
               
                     life of some accused person, or in Congress arguing for or
                    against some policy of the time, his addresses were always impressive. He had a wealth of classical
                    allusions and a sweep of historical knowledge that gave a finish and polish to them far beyond
                    anything attained by other speakers of the time. There was a free and impressive use of the bold
                    imagery that characterizes the formal oratory of an earlier day in American and English history. His
                    speeches in this respect remind one of the rounded periods of the elder Pitt and of Daniel Webster
                    at his best. Pathos, fire, glowing denunciation, all of the classic forms of appeal to the emotions
                    were used by him. Indeed, it must be said that his supreme power lay not in logical analysis nor in
                    close compact, formal presentation of fact but rather in his ability to reach into the human heart
                    and play upon its emotions at will.
            Concerning the second important aspect of his public life, it may be strongly asserted that he was a
                    true representative of the Democracy of southern and western Indiana. In relation to slavery and the
                    war, his views were the views of many thousands of good men who wanted to see the Union saved from
                    destruction but were strongly opposed to the methods employed. This fact, added to his natural
                    oratorical powers made him a figure of importance in the forum of national af-affairs. It thus came
                    about that he came to be one of the spokesmen for the entire Union-Democracy of the north. The
                    attitude expressed in his 
                        Greencastle
                     speech at the beginning of the war when he said, "I say to you, my
                    constituents, that as your representative I will never vote one dollar, one man, or one gun to the
                    administration of Abraham Lincoln to make war on the South",32
                    gradually changed until he was advocating increased pensions for union soldiers, was supporting the
                    policies of the President against his own party and finally composed the most moving eulogy of
                    Abraham Lincoln in existence.33
            
            At this distance from the conflict, it ought to be possible for us to take an unprejudiced and
                    non-partisan view of a man like Voorhees. Perhaps we have learned something from our experience in
                    the World War. Can a man criticize the policy and measures of the government during a war and yet
                        
                  
                     32 Speech at 
                                Greencastle
                             (Ind.), April 10, 1861, in the Daily 
                                    Wabash
                                 Ezpress, July 12, 1862.
                  
                     33
                            Forty Years of Oratory, 78.
               
                     be loyal? Thinking of Voorhees it seems that it can be done.
                    The war to his way of thinking was unnecessary. It was supported in objectives and methods by a
                    majority to which Voorhees did not belong. In political theory, he was directly opposed to them and
                    hence found a place in the minority group. His great oratorical powers brought him to the front in
                    that group. Here, he energetically attacked, yes, savagely attacked, the methods of the majority in
                    carrying on the war. He felt that the Constitution still lived—that the war should be
                    prosecuted within its boundaries. He saw the majority pushing the powers of government far beyond
                    such boundaries and moving toward tyranny. He did not accept the Roman dictum, Inter
                        arma silent leges. In speaking out boldly in opposition he did much to maintain the
                    constitutional rights of the minority and to modify and restrain the majority in the exercise of its
                    powers.
         
         
         
            Lincoln's Hoosier Schoolniasters
            BY LOUIS A. WARREN
            
            Abraham Lincoln needed but forty-seven words to prepare a sketch of his life for the Dictionary of Congress published in 1858. Although less than seventy-five years have
                    passed since this autobiographical note appeared, the accumulated mass of literature about him now
                    surpasses that of any other man who has lived since the beginning of time, certain biblical
                    characters excepted. In that first biographical effort of forty-seven words only one of them was
                    used to summarize the status of his education at that time. The word
                    was—"defective".
            Inasmuch as four of the world's outstanding contributions to literature, the first Inaugural
                    Address, the 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address, the Bixby letter, and the second Inaugural Address, came from his pen within a
                    comparatively short space of time after he reported that his education was
                    "defective", it may be worth while to make a somewhat detailed study of one phase
                    of his early educational processes.
            Some light is thrown on the character of his Indiana schooling by a brief excerpt from another
                    biographical sketch that he prepared in 1859: 
                        There were some schools, so called, but no qualification was ever required of a teacher,
                            beyond "readin', writin', and cipherin'" to the
                            rule of three. If a straggler supposed to understand Latin happened to sojourn in the
                            neighborhood, he was looked upon as a wizard. There was absolutely nothing to excite
                            ambition for education. Of course when I came of age I did not know much. Still somehow, I
                            could read, write, and cipher to the rule of three, but that was all. I have not been to
                            school since. The little advance I now have upon this store of education, I have picked up
                            from time to time under the pressure of necessity1
                  
                    
            
            Two statements with reference to his scholastic progress should be noted here. At the time he became
                    of age he says he did not know very much but could read, write, and cipher to the Rule of Three. In
                    referring to the knowledge he acquired between the time he became of age and his nomination for the
                    presidency, he writes that he made little advance during 
                  
                     1 Sketch prepared for Jesse W. Fell, Dec. 20, 1869.
               
                     that period. We do know that between the ages of twenty-one and
                    fifty-one he succeeded in mastering a great many books which called for wide reading and
                    concentration. These books treated such subjects as the science of grammar, the theory and practice
                    of surveying, ancient history, natural law, biography, essays, drama, poetry, theology, law,
                    theories of government, and the mathematical problems presented in the six books of Euclid.
            Unless one is familiar with thq style of Lincoln's writings, he might conclude after reading
                    the above exhibits that there was something irregular about Lincoln's acquisition of
                    knowledge. The apparent lack of harmony in the statements of Lincoln and his actual accomplishments
                    is due to what we might term today an inferiority complex.
            When he was first asked to prepare a sketch of his life he quoted a line from Gray's Elegy, "The short and simple annals of the poor," and said that
                    best described it. After receiving the nomination for the presidency he wrote these words to a
                    friend, "Holding myself the humblest of all whose names were before the
                        convention."2
            
            In all of his letters and speeches one observes the very humble estimate which Lincoln placed upon
                    his own ability. The tremendous store of information which he built up during his 
                        Illinois
                     years, couched in his own words, was but a "little advance" over that
                    gathered through the meagre opportunities of the early years. Thus his own humble appraisal of this
                    stock of knowledge gathered during these latter years may also indicate that by the time he was
                    twenty-one he knew considerably more than the alphabet and multiplication tables.
            About the time of Lincoln's nomination for the presidency he was urged to prepare another
                    autobiographical sketch. This appeared written in the third person and the following mention was
                    made of his Indiana school days: "While here Abraham went to A B C schools by littles, kept
                    successively by Andrew Crawford,—Swaney, and Azel W. Dorsey. He does not remember any
                    other. The family of Mr. Doriwy now resides in Schuyler County, 
                        Illinois
                    . Abraham now thinks that the aggregate of all his schooling did not amount to one
                        year."3
            
            
               
                  2 Letter written to Salmon P. Chase, Map 26. 1860.
               
                  3 Sketch prepared for John L. Seripps.
            
            
            This sketch introduces us to the main theme of this paper, Lincoln's Hoosier schoolmasters.
                    A brief discussion of Abraham Lincoln's preliminary training will reveal the type of lad
                    with whom the first of these three Hoosier schoolmasters came in contact.
            We have the testimony of William Herndon to the effect that Abraham's mother was "a
                    ready reader," and what we have learned about the environment in which she was brought up
                    supports this fact. As there were but two children in the 
                        Kentucky
                     home of the Lincoln's the mother had time to start her son in the most
                    elementary phases of his education. Possibly she should be considered as his first instructor.
            Closely associated with her as a teacher of the boy, and in a short time even supplanting her
                    efforts, was Sarah Lincoln, Abraham's sister, who was two years older than he. It is not
                    necessary to develop this phase of Lincoln's natural education. Anyone who is familiar with
                    child psychology, has observed the teaching methods at work in any family group of children. It is
                    not uncommon that younger children in the home assimilate the knowledge acquired by their older
                    brothers or sisters quite as readily as if the information had come to them through a formal course
                    of instruction. This was especially true where there were long recess periods extending over many
                    months between the terms of pioneer schools. Undoubtedly Abraham Lincoln's primary
                    education was stimulated by this sister two years older than himself, who not only accompanied him
                    to school, but also served as his unsalaried teacher at home. To her, more than any one else,
                    Abraham owed his early start in the field of knowledge. By the time he was seven years old, he had
                    attended two terms of school. It is doubtful if there were many children in the pioneer country who
                    had enjoyed so much formal instruction at so early an age.
            The most fruitless season in Lincoln's mental development must have been the four years in
                    southern Indiana between 1816 and 1820, when he was passing from seven to eleven years of age. The
                    removal of his parents into this community where there was no school, together with the death of his
                    mother during this period, disrupted any systematic plan for his instruction. During this interval
                    he acquired as much  knowledge as his sister was able to impart
                    so that she no longer could contribute much to his store of information.
            During the latter part of this barren four-year period, a youth by the name of Dennis Hanks, related
                    to Lincoln's mother, had taken up his residence in the Lincoln cabin. He was ten years
                    older than Abraham and although his education was limited he assisted the Lincoln children in their
                    self-assigned studies.
            Sometime before Christmas of the year 1819, Thomas Lincoln brought to the Indiana cabin a new mother
                    for the Lincoln orphans. He married the widow Johnston at Elizabeth-town, 
                        Kentucky
                    , on December 2 of that year.4 While she was a good mother to
                    Abraham and encouraged his study habits, it cannot be said that she was superior, either
                    intellectually or spiritually, to Abraham's own mother. It is very doubtful if she could
                    write her name and she did not affiliate with a church until after her marriage to Thomas Lincoln.
                    Her own direct contribution to Abraham Lincoln's education must have hen negligible. The
                    three children of this widow, who came to make their home in the Lincoln cabin, were, however, real
                    contributors to Abraham's early educational efforts in Indiana. Elizabeth Johnston, the
                    oldest child was two years older than her step-brother and of the same age as his own sister.
                    Undoubtedly she had had the privilege of attending the Eliza-bethtown (
                        Kentucky
                    ) Academy at different periods between the time she was five and twelve years of age.
            Elizabeth Johnston came under the instruction of at least one noted man, Duff Green, who taught at
                    this Academy from 1812 to 1816. One of his assistants was Rhodes 
                        Van
                     Meter who had attended Transylvania Seminary at 
                        Lexington
                     and may have been Elizabeth's first teacher. The successor to Green was
                    William Glascock. Aside from the regular primary courses taught in the school, Mr. Glascock offered
                    the following courses: "For the English language, grammatically, and use of the Globes,
                    Arithmetic, etc., $15.00. Geometry, Plain and Spherical Trigonometry with their
                    application to Surveying, Navigation, and Astronomy, Dialing, Gauging, etc. Algebra and Fluxions,
                        $30.00."5
            
            When Elizabeth Johnston came to Indiana in 1819, although 
                  
                     4 Hardin County, Kentuck, Marriage Register.
                  
                     5 Elizabethtown Acadamy's Trustee Book.
               
                     not old enough to have acquired an understanding of higher
                    mathematics, she had a much better formal education than either Abraham Lincoln or his sister. That
                    they immediately began to appropriate what knowledge she had is an assured fact.
            It was the year after the arrival of the new mother and her children that Abraham's formal
                    schooling in Indiana began. The three children of Sarah Johnston and the two children of Thomas
                    Lincoln would be incentive enough to encourage some teacher to start a subscription school in the
                    Little Pigeon Creek community.
            Our modern school programs, built up around the needs of the individual child, are in exact contrast
                    to the pioneer schools which were guided entirely by the availability and qualifications of the
                    prospective teachers. As both the schoolmaster and pupils were restricted from school attendance
                    during periods when crops needed attention, or when the winter season became so severe that travel
                    was impossible, the school term usually simmered down to about a two-months session each year.
            Orphan children who were bound out were assured by court order that they would have at least a
                    year's schooling. This did not mean that they were to be sent to school some time during a
                    certain year, but that the aggregate of their schooling, during their apprenticeship should amount
                    to a year or the equivalent of six two-month terms.
            The school attendance of Abraham Lincoln in Indiana did not begin until the year 1820 when he was
                    eleven years old. His first Hoosier schoolmaster was Andrew Crawford, who taught what was known as a
                    subscription school. Crawford was not an itinerant teacher, but for some time had lived in the
                    Lincoln, community. We discover his name first in the columns of the Western Sun
                    as a justice of the peace of 
                        Spencer county
                    , who on December 19, 1918, signed an estray notice. Jesse Hoskins, one of the neighbors
                    of Thomas Lincoln, father of Abraham, had "taken up" an estray horse, valued by
                    George Lee and William Hoskins at forty dollars, and Crawford had proceeded to advertise it.
            The fact that Crawford was the justice of the peace for Carter Township is proof enough that he had
                    some qualifications above the average pioneer. The thirty-eight closely  printed pages of laws in the published statutes of Indiana which set
                    forth the procedure for a justice of the peace, imply that it was necessary for Crawford to know
                    some law. Lincoln's first Hoosier school teacher may have influenced, unconsciously, the
                    choice of profession which the son of Thomas Lincoln made in after years.
            One of the chief functions of a justice of the peace in communities where preachers were not
                    available was the uniting of people in matrimony. In January 1819, Crawford married Joseph C. Wright
                    and Dinah Pierce. During the following two years he presided at a series of weddings in which the
                    Parkers, Gordons, Randalls, Angels, Turnhams, Syscons, Smiths, Hutchinsons, Masons, Zans, Joneses,
                    Thorps and La-mars, were the contracting parties. The last wedding he is known to have performed in 
                        Spencer county
                     was on March 14, 1821, at which time Robert Angel and Polly Richardson were married.6 Crawford's name disappears from the records after the date of this
                    wedding so he probably left 
                        Spencer county
                     about this time. His removal in the spring of 1821 fixes the date of Abraham
                    Lincoln's first Hoosier schooling. It was in the midsummer of 1820, after the corn had been
                    laid by; in the early part of the winter of the same year, after the harvest had been gathered, this
                    term reachinp into the early part of 1821.
            Aside from the implications which may be drawn from Crawford's service as justice of the
                    peace little is known about his qualifications as a teacher. Examples of his handwriting indicate
                    that he was a good penman and traditions which have come down to us throw further light on his
                    teaching methods. He is said to have taught etiquette or "manners" as the subject
                    was then called, and he pursued this course by practical demonstrations. One of the pupils would be
                    asked to withdraw from the schoolroom and then re-enter, being received at the door by one of the
                    other members of the class. The guest was then escorted from bench to bench, by the pupil acting as
                    host, and introduced to each one present. Much has been made of Lincoln's appearance at
                    this time and a jocular rather than serious aspect has been given this valuable backwoods training.
            Another widely circulated story of an incident in the Crawford school is the famous spelling match,
                    in which Lincoln 
                  
                     6
                            
                                Spencer county
                            , Indians, Marriage Register.
               
                     helped one of his classmates to spell
                    "defied." Katy Roby was asked to spell this word and continued as far as
                    "d-e-f" when she paused, not knowing whether to use a "y" or an
                    "i." Looking over toward Lincoln she saw him point his finger at his eye and
                    immediately took the hint, spelling the word correctly.
            It was at the Crawford school, also, where the teacher observed that one of a pair of antlers, which
                    had been fixed to the wall, was broken off. Upon inquiry as to who was responsible for this, Lincoln
                    immediately rose and explained that he did not intentionally break it but thought the antler would
                    hold his weight. He found out that it wouldn't. The teacher is said to have commended him
                    for his honesty.
            Possibly the greatest contribution which Andrew Crawford made to Abraham Lincoln was the placing in
                    his hands of a copy of Weems' Life of 
                            Washington
                        . Practically all of the early biographers are in agreement that this book
                    belonged to Lincoln's school teacher, Andrew Crawford. This fact is supported by
                    Lincoln's own testimony made in Trenton, 
                        New Jersey
                    : "Away back in my childhood, the earliest days of my being able to read, I got
                    hold of a small book.,. Weems' Life of 
                        Washington
                    ."7 This book has often been confused with
                    Ramsey's Life of 
                            Washington
                        . Lincoln borrowed Ramsey's work some time after the year 1825 from
                    Josiah Crawford, a neighbor. It was damaged by rain while in Lincoln's possession and he
                    pulled fodder to pay for it. One cannot overestimate the influence exerted on Abraham Lincoln by
                    Andrew Crawford and this famous book by Parson Weems.
            When Lincoln prepared his autobiography for Scripps he mentioned his Indiana school teachers, but
                    could not remember the full name of the second one whom he called Swaney. This name has often been
                    confused with Sweeney and it is sometimes so spelled in the public records. There is no question,
                    however, but that the correct spelling was Swaney. The given name, which the President had
                    forgotten, is left blank in most biographies.
            For several years the writer had been on the lookout for some document which might give a clue to
                    this unknown pedagogue. Recently he was rewarded by finding in the 
                        Warrick
                    
                    
                  
                     7 Speech before New Jetsey Ledslatwe, Febrw 21, 1861.
               
                     County Courthouse, a public record which he is quite sure,
                    refers to the Swaney mentioned by Lincoln. His first name was James.
            The record in question is a guardian's bond, which not only gives us the name and age of
                    Swaney, but presents the coincidence that Azel W. Dorsey, another school teacher of Lincoln was his
                    guardian. A copy of the document dated October 20, 1817, at Darlington, follows: 
                        Azel W. Dorsey appeared in court with James Swaney and Charlotte Swaney, orphan children of
                            Michael Swaney Dec. [—] and being appoint-guardian of said children and on
                            application to the court that the said James of the age of 17 and % years bound to him for
                            and during the term of four years and six months upon the following conditions: The said boy
                            is to have at the expiration of the said service a horse, saddle and bridle to be worth
                            seventy dollars and learn him to read, write and cypher through the single rule of three and
                            furnish him with good wearing apparel and a good decent suit of clothes at the expiration of
                            his said apprenticeship; and the said Charlott at the age of fourteen years and six months
                            is also bound out to the said Dorsey for and during the term of three years and six months
                            from the date hereon on the following conditions: as the said Azel W. Dorsey agrees to learn
                            her to read and write a legible hand and find her meat, drink, washing and lodging and also
                            find her good decent wearing apparel suitable to the seasons and a good feather bed and
                            furniture at the expiration of her said servitude and one decent suit of clothes at the
                            expiration of three years and six months aforesaid and it is further ordered by the court
                            that the said Dorsey enter bond in the clerk's office in the sum of
                            $1000 with William Ross security for his true and faithful performance
                                aforesaid.8
                  
                    
            
            The fact that there seems to have been but one family by the name of Swaney in 
                        Spencer county
                    , contemporaneous with the Lincoln's, is strong evidence that we have the
                    school teacher mentioned in the record above. It will be noted that Michael Swaney, the pioneer, was
                    dead by 1817, so that he can not be confused with the Swaney who taught Lincoln.
            James Swaney was born in the year 1800. After four years of apprenticeship, spent under the direction
                    of Dorsey, he evidently remained in the home of his benefactor and, while residing there, taught
                    school. We have evidence that Swaney became the teacher of Lincoln not earlier than 1822 and not
                    later than 1825. He was, therefore, during this period, between the ages of 22 and 25 but nine years
                    older than 
                  
                     8
                            
                                Warrick County
                            , Indiana, Probate Court Book, p. 1.
               
                     Lincoln himself. He was the only teacher Lincoln ever had whose
                    age was anywhere near his own. His school, like Crawford's, was probably a subscription
                    school.
            Swaney's preparation is set forth in the court record, which states that Dorsey should
                    "learn him to read, write and cypher through the single rule of three." This bears
                    out Lincoln's own testimony as to the qualifications of his early teachers. Swaney had at
                    least a horse and a fairly good suit of clothes at the expiration of his apprenticeship in the fall
                    of 1821, but there is no evidence that his father had left an estate in which he shared.
            Shortly after Swaney taught the school which Lincoln attended in 
                        Spencer county
                    , he married Sarah Jane Crannon (or Cranmore). This wedding took place on December 18,
                    1825, and is recorded in the 
                        Spencer county
                     marriage register. He was then twenty-five years old. His sister Charlott was but
                    eighteen when she was united in marriage to Charles Myers on January 19, 1921.9
            
            In the 
                        Spencer county
                     census for the year 1830. James Swaney and his wife are listed as being between twenty
                    and thirty years of age. They also had one child, a boy, who was under five years of age. The census
                    shows that at this time they were living at 
                        Rockport
                    , the county seat of 
                        Spencer county
                    .10
            
            Of the three men who taught Lincoln in southern Indiana, Swaney seems to have been the only one who
                    continued to make his residence there. 
                        Spencer county
                     deedbooks show him to have been in possession of two quarter sections of land in 1830:
                    one in section four, township seven, range one, the other in section sixteen, township six, range
                        one.11 While Lincoln is said to have mentioned Swaney many times in later
                    years none of these reminiscences seems to have been preserved in a form which makes it dependable.
            Most biographers have followed the story of Lincoln's schooling as told by Ward Hill Lamon
                    in his Life of Lincoln. He states that the Swaney school was the last one which
                    Lincoln attended in Indiana. This is in disagreement with Lincoln's own testimony. A
                    reminiscence of John Hoskins appears to be about the only accurate description of the school 
                  
                     9
                            
                                Spencer county
                            , Indiana, Marriage Register.
                  
                     10 Photostat cogies of census in Indiana State Library.
                  
                     11
                            
                                Spencer county
                            , Indiana, Tract Book.
               
                     house which was torn down and a stable built with the logs by
                    Hoskins: 
                        To get there he had to travel four and a half miles; and this going back and forth so great a
                            distance occupied entirely too much of his time. His attendance therefore was only at odd
                            times, and was speedily broken off altogether. The schoolhouse was much like the other one
                            near the Pigeon Creek meeting-house, except that it had two chimneys instead of
                            one…. Here, we would choose up, and spell as in old times every Friday night.
                    
            
            John Hoskins entered land in 
                        Spencer county
                     as early as September 2, 1818. This property was in Jackson Township section
                    twenty-three. If this was the land on which the school stood, the distance Abraham Lincoln had to
                    walk to reach it has not been exaggerated. It is two miles from the site of the Lincoln home to
                    where Gentry's store once stood, and Hoskins' place was at least two and one-half
                    miles to the south. Nicolay and Hay conclude that Lincoln had been attending this school but a brief
                    period when his father, feeling that there was too much waste of time, took him out and put him to
                    work. It is not likely that Abraham Lincoln was much the wiser from his contact with James Swaney.
            An act of the Indiana Legislature, approved January 31, 1824, provided for a more general development
                    of the school system. The last school Lincoln attended may be called a public school. Twenty
                    freeholders in a township could authorize the building of a school house. After the site had been
                    selected as near the center of the township as possible all freeholders over twenty-one years of age
                    were required to put in one day each week in the construction of the schoolhouse until it was
                    completed.
            The statute specified that all of the schoolhouses constructed under the direction of the school
                    trustees were to be "eight feet between the floors, and at least one foot from the surface
                    of the ground to the first floor, and finished in a manner calculated to render comfortable the
                    teacher and pupils."
            The prospective teacher of the public school was to be examined by the trustees "touching
                    his qualifications, and particularly as respects his knowledge of the English language, writing, and
                    arithmetic." His salary was to be provided by taxation based on the value of the improved
                    land in possession of the freeholders. The school was to be "forever open for  the education of all children within the district without
                        distinction."12
            
            Azel Walter Dorsey was the only school teacher of Lincoln, as far as the writer can learn, who later
                    lived contemporaneously with him in the 
                        Illinois
                     country. When Lincoln prepared his autobiographical sketch for Scripps and named his
                    five school teachers successively, he named Dorsey last. The only personal reference in his sketch
                    relating to any one of the teachers was to the latter, of whom he said: "The family of Mr.
                    Dorsey now resides in Schuyler County, 
                        Illinois
                    ." The first information we learn about Dorsey, in the court records, is the
                    fact that he married Eleanor Spriggs in Nelson County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , on January 4, 1807.13 Three days later he and his brother
                    Greenberry Dorsey went on a note payable to Abraham VanMatre, for the sum of $225. We
                    would infer that coming so close to the date of the wedding it had something to do with the
                    matrimonial venture. Whatever the need for the money, it is evident that the Dorseys did not meet
                    the payment when it came due in the following December, since it was in May of the next year before
                    any payments were made.14
            
            The year Abraham Lincoln was born, Azel Dorsey and Greenberry Dorsey, his brother, were farming a
                    piece of ground in Hardin County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , close by the Mill Creek farm purchased by Thomas Lincoln. Dorsey must have been well
                    acquainted with Lincoln's father and his aunt, Mary Lincoln Brumfield. The Brumfields were
                    close neighbors of the Dorseys. During this same year, 1809, Azel Dorsey, George Burkheart, and
                    Greenberry Dorsey had rented some land from Michael Reuch on Clear Creek. The fate of the venture is
                    best told in the answer to the bill of the suit which Reuch brought to recover damages: 
                        They (Dorsey, Burkheart, and Dorsey) did cultivate the ground in a farmer-like-manner under
                            the term leased… they did pay the plaintiff 1/3 part of the corn raised on the
                            said farm, stacked the hay jn three or six stacks and gave the plaintiff one-third
                            thereof… on that day there was a great tremendous freshet and flood in Clear
                            Creek, running through the leased premises, which swept and carried off from the said
                            premises, all the rails and fencing thereon, by means of which 
                        
                           12
                                    Revised Laws of Indiana, 1824, 381-382.
                        
                           13 Nelson County, 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , Marriage Register.
                        
                           14 Hardin County, 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , Circuit Court Ordinary Bundle, No. 9.
                     
                             irresistable act of nature or God the defendants were
                            disabled from leaving the farm in the repair required by the covenant.15
                  
                    
            
            By the year 1813, however, the tax lists show that Dorsey owned 100 acres of land and three horses.
                    The same year he was appointed a commissioner of the revenue tax. This was a responsible office and
                    kept Dorsey busy several weeks with a fair remuneration. His brother, Greenberry, owned slaves but
                    there is no record to show how Azel stood on this question, which was a live subject of debate in
                    pioneer 
                        Kentucky
                    .16
            
            Dorsey arrived in the Indiana country as early as May 13, 1816, where he served as clerk of an
                    election at the home of William Berry in 
                        Ohio
                     Township, 
                        Warrick County
                    . In the year 1818 he was serving as treasurer and coroner in what is now 
                        Spencer county
                    , Indiana. Such responsible positions as these indicate that Dorsey was a leader in the
                    affairs of the community. His good standing may have been responsible for his decision to enter the
                    mercantile business as set forth in this agreement filed in the 
                        Spencer county
                     Courthouse at 
                        Rockport
                     on March 10, 1819: 
                        A covenant and particular bond between A. W. Dorsey and M. B. Snyder. We do agree to and have
                            this day entered into co-partnership in the mercantile business for the term of 5 years
                            trading under the firm of Dorsey and Snyder….
                    
            
            As early as 1820, Dorsey began to purchase lots in Rock-port near where he then lived, but by March
                    seventh of the following year he had moved to an adjacent county, Dubois. The census for 1820 shows
                    him to have been a resident of 
                        Dubois County
                     at that time. He and his wife are listed as between twenty-six and forty-five years of
                    age. Three sons under ten years of age and one boy between ten and sixteen are also listed. By May
                    10, 1823, the family had returned to 
                        Spencer county
                     but continue1 to sell some of their 
                        Rockport
                     land holdings. It appears that their last 
                        Rockport
                     real estate was sold in June, 1824.17 What became of the
                    partnership venture with Snyder in the mercantile business is not known.
            It seems most likely that it was during the early months of 1826 that Lincoln attended
                    Dorsey's school. On March 1 
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., Order Book c.
                  
                     16 Hardin County, 
                                Kentucky
                            , County Court Tax lists, 1813.
                  
                     17
                            
                                Spencer county
                            , Indiana, Deed Book, No. 1.
               
                     of that year, Lincoln copied into his manuscript book of
                    examples several items under these headings: first
            "A definition of discount"; second, "Rules for its computation";
                    third, "Proofs and various examples."
            Dorsey's qualifications to teach are evident as he was able to instruct James Swaney, a
                    former teacher of Lincoln. It may be accepted without doubt that Dorsey was by far the best-equipped
                    tutor of the two 
                        Kentucky
                     and three Indiana teachers, who instructed Lincoln at different times. He fortunately
                    came in contact with the boy at a time when some advanced training in mathematics would be helpful
                    to him. When Lincoln became the pupil of Dorsey the latter was about forty-two years of age, as he
                    was born on November 5, 1784. Dorsey migrated to the 
                        Illinois
                     country two years before the Lincolns left Indiana where he taught a term of school in
                    the fall and winter of 1828-29.
            The late J. B. Oakleaf contributed an article to the Journal of the 
                            Illinois
                         Historical Society in which he tells of Dorsey's residence in
                    Schuyler County, 
                        Illinois
                    . Mr. Oakleaf was convinced that Dorsey was in the War of 1812 and that he received his
                    land grant in Schuyler County in recognition of that service. In 1840, Dorsey entered two tracts of
                    land in that county.18
            
            Mr. Oakleaf was successful in discovering the grave of Dorsey and on the tombstone the date of his
                    death was clearly inscribed as of September 13, 1868. The date of his death would not allow the
                    acceptance of the tradition which claims that Dorsey was living atl the time of Lincoln's
                    election to the presidency. It does not invalidate, however, his reminiscences as they relate to his
                    Indiana pupil, of whom Dorsey said: 
                        Lincoln was then marked for the eagerness and diligence with which he pursued his studies,
                            came to the log cabin school house arc rayed in buck skin clothes, a raccoon-skin cap, and
                            provided with BP old arithmetic, which had been found for him to begin his investige tions
                            into the "higher branches."
                    
            
            It is to be regretted that the other two Indiana teachers of Abraham Lincoln did not leave some
                    testimonies relative to his progress while attending their respective schools.
            
               
                  18 J. B. Oakleaf, "Azel W. Dorsey," in Journal of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, XXII, 447-60.
            
            
            The main object of this paper has been to touch upon the qualifications of those who might have been
                    expected to influence Abraham Lincoln in his studies at home and at school in Indiana, with the
                    emphasis placed on his contacts with his Hoosier schoolmasters. There has been no attempt to present
                    the opportunities and advancement which were open to him through the availability of books and
                    newspapers. An account of his acquaintance with many of the distinguished men of the southern
                    Indiana country, and the influence exerted over him by lawyers, preachers, and other men in public
                    places has also been omitted. In other words this paper has not aspired to be an exhaustive study on
                    Lincoln's early aducation.
            Before this paper is brought to a close, one other incident should be mentioned which may serve as a
                    sequel to his formal schooling. The modern educational maxim, "There is no impression
                    without expression," found a fruitful field for fulfillment in Lincoln's own
                    experience. The fact that there were two children in the Lincoln cabin home younger than Abraham
                    invited the development of the expressional phase of his education which was responsible for the
                    lasting impressions of his early days. Lincoln on one occasion referred to this feature of his
                    training as one of the most valuable of all contributions to his early educational process. John
                    Daniel Johnston, step-brother of Abraham, and six years his junior, was the chief object of
                    Lincoln's expressional training. Daniel was a constant companion of Abraham, from 1820 to
                    1830. While Johnston was the main benefactor of this association, Lincoln's own improvement
                    was assured by putting his remarks in such simple language that his younger associate could
                    comprehend them.
            One of the best evidences of this cooperative educational venture, by which both Lincoln and
                    Johnston, profited is revealed in the part which they played in the 
                        Illinois
                     elections of 1831 and 1832, less than two years after they left the same cabin home in
                    the Hoosier state. Although Abraham Lincoln had been in the town of 
                  New Salem, Illinois
               , but a month he was asked to serve as a clerk of the election held on
                    August 1, 1831. The following year he was on the ticket himself as a candidate for the Legislature
                    from Sangamon County. Over in Coles County, 
                        Illinois
                    , at the presidential election of 1832, John D. Johnston, step-brother of Abraham
                    Lincoln, then but  seventeen years of age, was serving as clerk
                    of the election as the following entry of November 10, 1832, in the county order book reveals:
                    "Ordered that the treasury pay John D. Johnston or bearer the sum of sixty-two cents, for
                    serving as clerk of the last presidential election, out of money in the treasury not otherwise
                        appropriated."19 These two former inmates of the Indiana Lincoln
                    cabin, invited to serve in remunerative offices, because of their educational qualifications,
                    suggest a home atmosphere which must have been equal or even superior to the average cabin of the
                    pioneer country.
            When Abraham Lincoln stated that his education was defective he was comparing his early training with
                    the more advanced educational opportunities of 1859. When he wrote his autobiographical sketch that
                    the aggregate of his schooling would not amount to over one year, it should not be implied that his
                    educational facilities suffered by comparison with most of the other pioneer boys and girls of early
                    Indiana. His opportunities were only excelled by small groups of children who may have been living
                    in the few centers of population where academies were established. Abraham Lincoln may not have
                    known very much when he became of age, but there is plenty of evidence to show that he knew more
                    than most of his contemporaries not excluding his Hoosier schoolmasters.
            
               
                  19 Coles County, 
                            Illinois
                        , Order Book. I, 28.
            
         
         
         
            "The Burnt District"
            BY GRACE JULIAN CLARKE
            
            The political area of Indiana, known for many years as the "Burnt District" haa
                    been variously composed of from four to twenty counties in the eastern part of the state, Only two
                    counties, 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Fayette
                    , have constantly formed a part of this congressional district, with Union, Henry and
                    Rush counties included the greater portion of the time. 
                        Wayne county
                     has always been regarded as the hub, or center, perhaps because it was one of the first
                    counties settled. It contains Centreville, an important business, educational, social and political
                    stronghold. On the removal of the seat of justice to 
                        Richmond
                    , that city forged ahead as one of the large and influential communities of the state.
                    The "Burnt District" has been, at different times, the third, the fourth, the
                    fifth and the sixth. It has been the sixth congressional district for the past sixty years.
            How the term "Burnt District" arose has been the subject of considerable curiosity.
                    According to Jacob P. Dunn, residents of the region of whom he sought an explanation were as much in
                    the dark as were other people. Mr. Dunn quotes a statement furnished to him by George W. Julian, who
                    represented the district in Congress for twelve years, giving an explanation which is accepted by
                    Dunn, though with a change of dates. Mr. Julian stated to Mr. Dunn that the district was first so
                    called in 1841, the Whig majority of that year having been so great that the Democratic leaders
                    applied to it the term frequently seen in the public prints describing a fire in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     which destroyed a considerable section of the city. Mr. Dunn found no record of a fire
                    in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     in 1841, but did see accounts of a large fire there in 1845, and of one in 
                        New York City
                     also, he was inclined to think that Mr. Julian was mistaken in the date and that the
                    name "Burnt District" therefore harks back no farther than to 1845.
            So it might seem that the question was settled for all time, but one cannot be positive in such
                    matters: new evidence sometimes unexpectedly appears. Recently, when looking over an old scrap-book
                    kept by George W. Julian my eye fell  upon a page of manuscript,
                    evidently prepared in the eighteen-eighties, to the effect that the author of the term
                    "Burnt District" as applied to the region under consideration was Andrew Kennedy.
                    In 1841, this interesting man was elected as a Democrat over two Whig competitors, Jonathan McCarty
                    who had three times represented the district in Congress and Caleb B. Smith who was destined to
                    represent it three times later on. "AS it was found impracticable to get either of them out
                    of the way," says Mr. Julian, "the Democrats, on the eve of the election, secretly
                    brought out Andrew Kennedy of 
                        Delaware county
                    , which was then in the district, and as the Whig vote was nearly evenly divided,
                    Kennedy was elected. About this time a great fire in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     destroyed the best part of the city and the newspapers were filled with accounts of the
                    ‘Burnt District.’ Kennedy applied the term to his district, in which he said
                    Whiggery was as badly burnt out as Pitts-burg. This is the generally accepted origin of the phrase
                    since so well known." According to this testimony, it was Whigs who
                    suffered from the burning instead of Democrats, the time being 1841, when Kennedy was the victor.1
            
            The date of that fire still puzzles and perplexes, but for myself I am willing to waive further
                    investigation, consoled by the knowledge that at last we have found the real author of the
                    appellation "Burnt District." I am especially pleased to know that it was that
                    romantic character, the 
                        Connersville
                     blacksmith, who came to Indiana from his birthplace in 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               ,
                    when a child, learned to read and write after he was grown, became an able and very eloquent lawyer,
                    was three terms a member of the national Congress, and died at the age of thirty-seven in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , whither he had come, the Legislature being in session, to open his campaign for the 
                        United States
                     Senate to which in all probability he would have been elected. William Wesley Woollen
                    relates an anecdote told by Stephen A. Douglass of 
                        Illinois
                     in the course of a speech in the Senate of the 
                        United States
                    . Senator Douglass said that one day when Kennedy rose to address the House a colleague
                    asked him how he got there, to which he replied that he came from the strongest Whig district in the
                    state of Indiana, a district that gave General William Henry Harrison 
                  
                     1 The congressional election in Indiana was held on May 7 in 1841. The
                            vote in the fifth district stood as follows: for Kennedy, 5, 664; for McCarty, 4,299: for
                            Smith, 4,049: scattering, 19% Indiana Journal (semi-weekly), May 22, 1841.
                            At this time the fifth district contained twenty counties, reaching to the northern boundary
                            of the date.
               
                     a bigger majority in 1840 than had any other in the 
                        United States
                     of America, that he beat three of the ablest Whigs in the district, and could have
                    beaten three more if they had dared to run against him. On consulting the Congressional
                        Globe, I find that these are Mr. Kennedy's words: "I came here with a
                    majority of fourteen hundred votes over one of the strongest men in my State. Yes, more: I have not
                    only succeeded by that majority over one, but over two, of the
                    most popular men of the State. And I have no doubt I could have beaten half a dozen just as
                    easy." Mr. Woolen also says that John Quincy Adams once congratulated Kennedy after one of
                    is fiery outbursts calling him the "greatest natural orator in America."
            Kennedy's election, in view of his ability and popularity, may have caused some uneasiness
                    among his Whig constituents, for by the next reapportionment, 
                        Delaware County
                     was taken out of the "Burnt District" and placed in one of three new
                    districts created in 1842. Kennedy was undoubtedly popular and a skillful politician, however, since
                    he was promptly elected from the district in which his county had been placed.
            It is interesting to note that only two Democrats besides Kennedy have ever been elected from the
                    "Burnt District," William S. Holman when the Republican party was still feeling
                    the effects of the Greeley exodus of 1872, and Finley H. Gray in 1912, as a result of the strength
                    of the Progressive party. Of the men who have represented the district in Congress, 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Fayette
                     counties have each supplied five, 
                        Randolph county
                     two, and 
                  Delaware, Dearborn
                and 
                        Franklin
                     one each.
            Among those who have served the district in Congress, a few outstanding figures may properly be
                    mentioned. Caleb B. Smith of 
                        Connersville
                    , who succeeded Kennedy, was a native of 
                  Boston, Massachusetts
               , but
                    came West when a child. He had been active in Indiana politics for a number of years prior to his
                    first election to the national House, having served four terms in the state senate and as a Whig
                    presidential elector in 1840. An able man and strong partisan, he was regarded as an excellent
                    politician. Shortly before the expiration of his third and last term, he refused (though in his
                    seat) to vote for the abolition of the slave trade in the District of 
                        Columbia
                    , thus incurring the displeasure of antislavery men,  and was shortly afterward appointed Commissioner of Mexican Claims by President Taylor, as a
                    reward, it was said, for his silence at that time. He served for a short time as Secretary of the
                    Interior under President Lincoln, resigning to accept an appointment as Judge of the 
                        United States
                     District Court in Indiana.
            Smith expected his brother-in-law, Samuel W. Parker, also of 
                        Connersville
                     and a lawyer, to succeed him as representative from the "Burnt
                    District," and this seemed the natural sequence. But the slavery question was steadily
                    challenging more and more attention. George W. Julian of Centreville, who had been elected to the
                    state Legislature in 1845 as a Whig but who had voted with the Democrats on two important matters
                    and had since gone as a delegate to the Freq Soil National Convention of 1848 at Buffalo, came
                    forward in 1849 as an avowed candidate for Smith's seat, though a Free Soiler. It was a
                    lively campaign, perhaps the most exciting that the "Burnt District" ever knew.
                    Parker boldly declared himself an enemy of slavery and made a strong fight, backed by Smith and
                    other leading Whigs both inside and outside the district. But Julian was victorious, largely because
                    the Democrats of the district placed no candidate in the field, most of them supporting the Free
                    Soiler, partly in recognition of his independent stand in the Legislature four years before, but
                    also because at this moment Democrats of the Old Northwest showed a strong tendency to take an
                    antislavery stand2 Two years later, however, after another bitter campaign,
                    Parker was elected over his more youthful competitor and was once reelected. He was a man of
                    ability, a regular in politics, as most representatives were. On his retirement from Congress, he
                    became president of the Whitewater Canal Company, the charter for which he had been influential in
                    securing from the Legislature. By the way, Parker was indirectly responsible for the brevity of
                    Andrew Kennedy's career as a blacksmith, according to Mr. Woollen. It seems that Mr. Parker
                    took delight in horses, especially spirited horses, and it was while blacksmith Kennedy was trying
                    to fit a shoe on one of Parker's most vicious animals that he received a kick that laid him
                    low for a long time. Parker naturally felt a particular interest in the case, encouraged Kennedy to
                    take 
                  
                     2See William O. Lynch, "Antislavery Tendencies of the
                            Democratic Party in the Old Northwest, in 
                        Mississippi
                                valley Historical Review, XI, 319-331.
               
                     up reading and the art of penmanship, lent him books, and
                    presently took him into his office as a student.
            Of all the men who represented the "Burnt District" in Congress, no one had so
                    stormy a career as Julian. This was largely due to his having embraoed the antislavery cause in the
                    days of its greatest unpopularity. For years, he felt it his duty to keep the issue prominently
                    before the people so as to build up and strengthen public opinion against slavery, and so gradually
                    force the extinction of the institution by restricting it to the states where it already existed.
                    When the war came on, he insisted that its cause was not state rights but the determination of
                    slaveholders to retain and perpetuate their peculiar institution, and he was for prosecuting the war
                    with every available weapon. The "Burnt District" contained many Quakers, who
                    naturally abhorred slavery. But there were very many settlers from the southern states who were not
                    Quakers, and he had these to educate and lead along. His task was not an easy one, and that he was
                    able to retain his hold throughout the war and reconstruction periods is remarkable, especially in
                    view of the hostility of Governor Morton and his powerful "cabal."
                    Julian's strength lay in moral suasion rather than in political maneuvres. Among the
                    schemes resorted to in order to compass his defeat was the familiar one of reapportionment. At one
                    time, he found three reliably Republican counties subtracted from the "Burnt
                    District" and four strongly Democratic counties added. Nothing daunted, he made a vigorous
                    campaign and was successful. But two years later, in 1870, he was snowed under and retired from
                    active political life.
            Another outstanding representative from the "Burnt Distritc" was the Hon. Henry U.
                    Johnson, son of Judge Nimrod H. Johnson and brother of Robert Underwood Johnson, who served four
                    terms, his last ending in 1899. Belonging to an old Republican family and steeped in the traditions
                    of the Civil War, he nevertheless did his own thinking, politically, and when he saw that the
                    country was being led into a war with 
                        Spain
                     over matters that he thought could be amicably adjusted, he boldly threw down the
                    gauntlet and denounced his party's recreancy in a spirited speech in the national House. Of
                    course, this meant the end of his political career. In his place, the "Burnt
                    District" elected James E. Watson,  a regular of the
                    regulars, who has been faithful in season and out of season to his party's behests. Mr.
                    Johnson, a lawyer still actively practicing his profession in 
                        Richmond
                    , celebrated his eightieth birthday on October 28, 1930. By the way, he writes, while
                    this paper is being prepared, that his impression has always been that the term "Burnt
                    District" arose from the fact that certain persons, whether Whigs or Democrats he does not
                    remember, at one time burned their hats in their exultation over the defeat of their opponents at
                    the polls!
            The "Burnt District" has numerous claims to distinction aside from those mentioned.
                    One of the most famous Underground Railway stations in the entire country was located within its
                    borders, at 
                        Newport
                    , now 
                  Fountain City, Wayne county
               . In Centreville, one is shown the old building where Gen.
                    A. E. Burnside, a man destined to an important command in the Civil War, had his tailor shop. I
                    believe that Joaquin Miller, the poet, was born in the "Burnt District," as was
                    James Whitcomb Riley, for 
                        Hancock county
                     was much of the time included therein. This district has furnished two Governors of the
                    State, Morton, the famous War Governor, and Isaac P. Gray. It has also produced two 
                        United States
                     Senators, Oliver P. Morton and James E. Watson. It has stood high in the educational
                    world, the old Whitewater Academy having been located in Centreville, while Earlham College is at 
                        Richmond
                    . Time prevents the telling of other interesting features. I am informed that the term
                    "Burnt District" is no longer in use, but since every one of the eight counties in
                    the present sixth district, was a part of the old district at different times it seems a pity to
                    lose a designation so unique, with its romantic suggestion of a more exhilarating if not a loftier
                    period in the state's political history.
         
         
         
            The Old Jean Daniel Morerod Home at 
                        Vevay
                    
            
            BY JULIA LECERC KNOX
            
            With the passing of the years our thoughts are irresistibly drawn to past generations on whose
                    shoulders, by reason of their faith and hardihood, we stand. Our reminiscent mood is the magic wand
                    that makes potent the wish expressed by the old McGuffey poet: 
                        Backward, turn backward, O, Time in your flight,
                        Make us a child again, just for tonight.
                    
            
            So, before we gird up our loins, catch step with the age, and more or less courageously face the year
                    just ahead which holds, perchance a grave or maybe our greatest success, our fancy wanders briefly
                    among the scenes of our early days.
            Our many minds turn in as many ways. What stands to the writer in lieu of a mind reverts to an old
                    brick homestead on the banks of the 
                        Ohio
                    , just on the western outskirts of the little town of 
                        Vevay
                     which was settled by the Swiss almost a century and a half ago. This old house, now
                    owned and occupied by the Postmaster, James Wright, and his wife, the latter a distant relative of
                    Mary Todd Lincoln and also a relative of Julia L. Dumont, the famous pioneer teacher of Edward
                    Eggleston, was built in 1817 by Jean Morerod, one of the original Swiss colonists. He married
                    Antoinette, sister of the Dufour brothers who founded the town.
            The old Morerod house was noted far and wide for its hospitality and many notables, including Henry
                    Clay and Jonathan Jennings have been entertained there. A few years ago, an old addition, known as
                    the ball-room, was torn away. Here, lighted by brass candelabra on the walls, were enacted many
                    lively scenes of pioneer days. It is said that half of the "matches" in the county
                    were made in this pioneer ballroom. Sentimental descendants have been known to come to gaze on the
                    scene where their fathers and mothers first met. The ball-room was on an upper floor and was reached
                         by an outside stair in the foreign fashion. An old
                    wine-cellar below still contains two mammoth wine casks, one with a capacity of seven hundred
                    gallons and the other of five hundred gallons, believed to be the only relics now in existence of
                    the "chief product of New 
                        Switzerland
                     on the banks of the 
                        Ohio
                    ."
            There was and is a brick floor in this cellar. It is said that old Jean Daniel Morerod, the builder,
                    took his oldest daughter there and showed her where he had taken up a part of the bricks and buried
                    his money, in case an unexpected Indian raid should put a period to his existence before he could
                    tell his family where he kept his secret hoard. He swore her to secrecy unless the emergency should
                    arrive. There is a place in the floor that looks as if the bricks had been removed which used to
                    pique my childish fancy.
            The house stands back from the highway and is surrounded by a well kept lawn, sprinkled with cedar
                    trees. It was on this lawn that the first orchard grass in the then so-called West, sprang up. Aime
                    Dufour, brother of Madam Morerod, too young to come to America with his older brothers and) sisters,
                    arrived in 1812, walking from 
                        Boston
                     and sleeping in barns en route. It is of interest that the vessel on
                    which he embarked was captured by a British cruiser and that he was detained for months. His sister
                    hung his clothes on a tree, like the careful housewife she was, and seeds of grass, souvenirs of his
                    wayside repose, fell from his pockets, took root and "bore an hundred fold."
            The site on which the old mansion stands is supposed to be near the spot where the oldest of the
                    Dufour brothers, John James, first landed when he came prospecting in 1801, after having searched
                    for a favorable location since coming to America in 1796. He sprang ashore and seizing an axe, cried
                    "I will cut down the first tree." He suited the action to the word, as was the way
                    with those sturdy old forbears. Yet it was a difficult undertaking—this pioneer
                    life—for those born and reared in a country dating its civilization back to the time of
                    the Caesars and who knew nothing about the use of the axe as American pioneers knew it. They had
                    been accustomed to many luxuries and too much can not be said of the courage and fortitude with
                    which they faced their hardships  and rose to the occasions that
                    confronted them that they might leave to us the heritage we now enjoy.
            The old house has been much modernized but originally it was of the colonial style. The walls are
                    over two feet thick and it contains many antiques of unusual interest. An old stoop adorns the front
                    entrance, and in true colonial style, a hall cuts the house in two, opening on a long back porch and
                    containing the customary stair leading to the upper floor.
            The old time parlor has its set of rose patterned furniture with a table made by the cabinet maker
                    Benjamin Detraz (pronounced da traw) who came from 
                        France
                     in 1817. He married Lucy Morerod, one of the daughters of the house and the fifth white
                    child born in the county. She lived to be ninety-eight and was the source of much local history. She
                    was present at 'the birth of Edward Eggleston and put his first clothes on him.
                    "Twonnet" a character in Eggleston's "Roxy" was her
                    daughter who died in young womanhood very soon after her marriage to Harvey Titus.
            "Aunt Lucy" could remember hearing the cry of the panther on the hills at night as
                    a sort of lullaby when she and her little brothers and sisters were tucked in their trundle-beds.
                    She had seen the buffalo come down to the river to drink and a bear walking on his hind legs, carry
                    off a great porker from her father's pig pen. Her husband was the chief gunner in the Swiss
                    Artillery that went to 
                        Cincinnati
                     to welcome 
                        Lafayette
                     in 1824. He fired the cannon "twenty-eight times in three minutes, lacking one
                    second, and was deaf in one ear ever after." She loved to tell how 
                        Lafayette
                     had said it was the greatest speed he had ever seen made in any
                    place—"the time made by the Swiss gunners of 
                        Vevay
                    ".
            To return to the girlhood home of "Aunt Lucy", one of the first coal-oil lamps sold
                    in 
                        Vevay
                     is in the old parlor. There are handsome engravings of George and Martha 
                        Washington
                     and miniatures of Mary Lowe Dumont, wife of Peter Dumont, Revolutionary soldier, buried
                    in the 
                        Vevay
                     cemetery. These were the great-grandmother and great-grandfather of Mrs. Wright, the
                    present owner. There is a picture of a vase of flowers, painted by Isabel Todd Dumont one hundred
                    and two years ago. She was a first cousin of Mary Todd Lincoln. A two hundred year old mirror
                    decorates the wall. Here the Julia L. Dumont Club, founded in 1886, started its forty-fifth  year of activity in September, 1930. The spacious lawn, once
                    used as a community center by the Swiss Association, echoed to the voices of one of the oldest
                    literary societies in the state of Indiana.
            Old Jean Daniel Morerod, the original owner, helped to haul Napoleon's cannon over the Alps
                    before the battle of Marengo. He was an eccentric old fellow as his unique will, recorded in the 
                        Switzerland
                     courthouse at 
                        Vevay
                    , easily proves. In it, he provided that his burial should be of the simplest, that his
                    casket should not exceed two dollars in cost and that the difference in price "between this
                    equipage of mine and that usually afforded shall be spent in the best wine that may happen then to
                    be in my cellar and shall be dealt out to those who shall accompany my body to the grave."
            The little city of 
                        Vevay
                     is full of just such houses. One needs but to scratch the surface anywhere about the
                    old town to get a rich find of romantic history, stranger and more piquant than fiction.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            BY CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            An agreement has been effected between the Indiana Library and Historical Board and the Indiana
                    Historical Society by which the William Henry Smith Memorial Library is to be located in the future
                    State Library and Historical Building. It is expected that an earlier arrangement by which the
                    library was to go into the main building of the Indiana World War Memorial will be modified so that
                    a historical museum will be developed in the World War Memorial. The obvious adbantages of having
                    the manuscripts and books which the memorial library has, and will accumulate, in a building in
                    which a well organized library and a trained staff is operating make the agreement recently arrived
                    at very desirable.
            The William Henry Smith Memorial Library, bequeathed to the Society by the late Delavan Smith,
                    together with an endowment which after the payment of inheritance taxes amounted to
                    $120,000, has been in storage for five years pending the occupation of permanent quarters
                    by the Society. While at present it consists principally of standard works of literature and the
                    correspondence of William Henry Smith, father of Delavan Smith, the Society has the right to sell or
                    exchange books, and expects to develop a specialized historical library. The Smith Memorial Library
                    and the State Library will thus be mutually supplementary.
            The selection of a site and the construction of the State Library and Historical Building is
                    entrusted by law to a board of nine members, consisting of Arthur R. Baxter, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , chairman; Charles N. Thompson and William M. Taylor, also of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Arthur B. Ayres, 
                        Newcastle
                    ; Mrs. Elizabeth Claypool Earl, 
                        Muncie
                    ; Mrs. Frank J. Sheehan, Gary; C. Herman Pell, Carbon; Herbert P. Kenney, New 
                        Albany
                    ; James R. McCann, 
                        Lebanon
                    . Louis J. Bailey, director of the State Library, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is secretary ex-officio.
            
            The Commission has selected the quarter-block at the southwest corner of Senate Avenue and 
                        Ohio
                     Street and is in the midst of condemnation proceedings brought in order to clear the
                    title. According to the Act creating the Commission, the architect is to be selected by competition.
                    For the purchase of the site and the erection of the building, a tax of one-half of one cent on each
                    one hundred dollars of taxable property for each of the years 1929 and 1930 and a tax of one cent on
                    each one hundred dollars of taxable property for the year 1931 was levied. The Commission now [June,
                    19311 has available the first of these levies, or approximately $250,000. The whole
                    proceeds will not be available until January 1, 1933. It is planned, however, to publish a program
                    of competition as soon as the condemnation proceedings are completed which will probably be late in
                    July.
            The Society has already begun a few enterprises in the development of the library. Copies of maps in
                    certain French archives, duplicates of those secured for several other libraries in the 
                        United States
                    , were purchased several years ago from Professor Louis C. Karpinski of the University
                    of 
                        Michigan
                    . Photostats of seventeen letters of Judge Law in the Draper collection at
                            
                  Madison, Wisconsin
               , were purchased last year. Before the building of the old
                    School for the Blind on the present World War Memorial site was torn down, detailed measurements and
                    drawings were made by an architect, and a book of measurements, drawings, and photographs has been
                    made from which the building could be reproduced. It was probably the best example of a public
                    edifice designed by Francis Costigan in the period before the Civil War. At the Centennial dinner of
                    the Indiana Historical, Society signatures of those present were secured on sheeta of parchment;
                    these with a list of the founders of the Society and other interesting material have been worked
                    into a "Golden Book" with lettering and illumination by Frederick Polley, When the
                    library is in its permanent quarters it will be in a position to add to its collection rare and
                    valuable items which should be preserved in the state but which would not come within the scope of
                    the other libraries.
            
            The membership of the Society for the year 1930 reached a total of 1155, including six honorary and
                    ten life members. The present total membership, June 3, is 1053, including seven honorary and eleven
                    life members. The falling off of membership after the special occasion of the Centennial can be
                    avoided only by renewed efforts of our constituency to bring into the Society and keep in the
                    Society all of those who should be members. While membership is limited to those interested in
                    Indiana history and of good standing in their community, the number eligible is certainly much
                    greater than the present membership. The Society might well be enlarged to at least two thousand
                    without lowering in any respect the high character of membership which it has hitherto
                maintained.
         
         
         
            Documents
            LETTERS
                    OF
                    A CIVIL WAR SURGEON.
            Dr. E. W. H. Beck served through the Civil War as a physician and surgeon. Earlier he saw service in
                    the Mexican War, following which he returned to his home in Delphi, Indiana, where he married Miss
                    Frances M. Milroy. Some letters written on the Mexican front by Doctor Beck, Robert and Samuel
                    Milroy, and William E. Pearsons were published in the Indium Magazine of History
                    in June, 1929 (XXV, 167-173). The letters printed below were written by Doctor Beck during the Civil
                    War. The manuscript copies were kindly furnished, through Miss Esther U. McNitt of the Indiana State
                    Library, by two grand-daughters of Dr. Beck, Mrs. Mildred Knight Richardson and Mrs. Dorothy Knight
                    Green of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            [Dr. E. W. H. Beck to Mrs. (Frances M. Milroy) Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp of 3rd Cavalry 2nd Bd [Brigade]
                           
                                    Sunday Nov. 11 [1861]
                                
                        My Dearest.
                        
                        Today I read your first letter—& how glad—& yet
                                    sorry I felt when I perused it—I immediately wrote a letter to Ed Davis
                                    to see the Commissioners the 1st Dec & I gave him an order for them to pay
                                    my % to him instead of to Thomas & he will hand to you or
                                    Miss Skinner—they owe me % of full amount due from their last sitting up
                                    to the 22 Oct.—it will be in the neighborhood of 5
                                    dollars—take it and pay Miss Skinner—I was to pay her 12
                                    dollars & 50 cts—per Quarter—that is every 3
                                    months—$4.12 pr month—& I paid her in full
                                    on the Thursday of the commissioners last sitting about 1st Sept.—I owed
                                    her about a shilling more than they owed me & Thomas promised me faithfully
                                    to lift the amount at Commissioners next sitting—My share up to 22
                                    Oct—when I left and pay Miss Skinner—Now I do not owe Dr.
                                    Thomas 5 dollars—I may owe him a dollar or so—pity he cant
                                    wait till I come home—when he owed me $50—I waited
                                    till he made & collected it—which 1 had not agreed
                                    to—& do not pay him a cent—He also agreed to pay Miss
                                    Skinner just half the rent or I believe just $2 per month out of his own
                                    pocket—just to keep the room unoccupied & Miss
                                    S—agreed to take this and no more—(or if 2 dollars more per
                                    annum—II pay this when I come home—& leave my things
                                    in—but if Thomas has backed out—see if Misa S—will
                                    let you then rent it to Dr. Shultz—see him—get him in if
                                    possible—If she wont let anyone in—& Thomas wont, pay
                                    the $2 pr. month— get a
                                    man & surely if you ask Joel [Dewey] to hunt you up a man at anytime hed do
                                    it. & either him or [David] Leonard would advance you $5 in a
                                    pinch—or Dugan would. & II send you some money just as soon as
                                    the paymaster comes 'round—& we are expecting him any
                                    day—John Allen on Sugar Creek was to bring Hay the week I
                                    left—Joel can see him any day or so—or if a nice day you ride
                                    out in buggy—(Is the top on the buggy as pr agreement) He [Allen] is to
                                    keep you in Hay—if he wont, tell Leonard to make him—I spoke
                                    to several men for corn & enclose a few lines to him &
                                    Hubbard—send them to both—Hubbard will certainly get wood
                                    hauled—& call on him or Leonard or 
                                        Mitchell
                                    —or even ask Reed Case to send you a man to cut it all up (65
                                    to 75 ct, pr cord is usual price) at once and throw it in—See Saml
                                    Jackson for the cow house & odd jobs—drum them up
                                    strong—stick to them is the only way to get a thing—Had you
                                    not better find a good Boy 12 to 16 years old to cut wood and take care of
                                    Horse—& go to school or even pay him $8 pr
                                    month—hunt one up—I dont want you to work so—or if
                                    you can—sell Frank [horse] for $110 cash—or
                                    $125—Notes in 6 months—You are right in taking
                                    boarder—I would rather you had one & charge her
                                    nothing—than to be so lonely—Enjoy yourself all you can you
                                    distress me by your fretting & crying—Il try & keep all
                                    safe—if I accomplish my intention, all right;—Il be home in
                                        Feb I dream of you—love my home as mutch as man can
                                    & miss it now—yet J can make & save something more than
                                    at home—& will enjoy it doubly when I do get there—Gen'l Scott thinks it wont last long.
                        The Burr & County debt—bore my spirits down—&
                                    God knows when I could have paid it at home—here 2 months will
                                    pay—3 or 4 months will let me out of debt & 4 more will with our
                                    land, build our house—& if we both live that long-until this is
                                    accomplished I never will leave home again By God this is an oath
                                    to it—no preventing providence—only interfering—I
                                    can manage then—2 houses to rent & the 3rd to live
                                    in—& tho we cant tell the future…. I dont think mortal
                                    man loves his family more than I do, & I am making these personal sacrifices
                                    solely for them—to aid me in doing my duty to them & get this
                                    burden of debt off shoulders once more—no more
                                    speculations—See Will Calvert get $10 of him certainly
                                    $18 per month will hire help for you—keep Kate & get a
                                    Boy—or Tom to find a man—Saml will certainly bring you
                                    corn—or see if he will keep Frank for so much per month 4& leave
                                    him there—He cant work him & wont hurt him & will
                                    exercise him—do this now—Il pay him—then leave the
                                    corn in the stalk—& you can get the horse to
                                    ride—Larry going for him when you want him—Get money of
                                    Calvert till I send you some—Is the kitchen plastered
                                    yet—Buggy fixed &c—&c?
                        We moved our camp yesterday 4 miles further down the river—are still in
                                    tents—develish cold at nights yet I sleep pretty warm on a straw sack on
                                    a box and my trunk—sent to the city for a cot—camp stools
                                    &c I expect wel go into winter quarters—for I Bee no signs of
                                    moving—Mat Chapman brought my coat from 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     $23. Il send [the $231 as soon as Im paid. If you
                                    hear from Robt or John let me hear from you—tell Ally and Larry to
                                    write…. I want no money  from
                                    home—would like the wrapper—never mind the pen—Can
                                    of mangoes would be nice—kiss the children—tell Fanny Il bring
                                    the baby—Keep in good heart & tell my spirit friends to stick by
                                    me.
                        God bless you my darling—I would love to kiss you—&
                                    hope to soon.
                        
                                    Your Husband.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Carter
                           
                                    Sunday night Dec. 29, 1861.
                                
                        
                                    Dearest:
                                
                        I received yours of the 22nd today…. You Speak of the victories everywhere
                                    else except here—Well—I have no doubt our Authorities have
                                    some doubt of trying them here—You see they have 1 line of fortifications
                                    behind annother for 16 miles deep—and 30 or 40 long—then
                                    protected by water & mountains so you Cant flank them—McClellan
                                    has been heard to Say—Give him Indiana troops—& he
                                    will fight the devil but he has not so much Confidence in N—York
                                    & N 
                                        England
                                     troops. Now—Supposing we commenced the fight—it
                                    would be a seige of from 1 week to a month to dislodge them—from their
                                    strongholds—for they have about 200,000 men—our Gov knows
                                    this—& there would be thousands of lives lost & should we
                                    be defeated—the jig is up—foreign nations would dictate the
                                    peace—Well—just the way we are doing will whip
                                    them—we are sending off Expeditions evry
                                    week—South—getting behind them—& will in 2
                                    or 3 years whip them into submission—not sooner. I am sorry Tom Madden
                                    was killed.—Where is Roberts [Robert Milroy] troops going to? Remain
                                    thefe or go to 
                                        Kentucky
                                    .
                        4 of this Reg'ts Companies are in 
                                        Kentucky
                                    —& we shall be ordered there, or them
                                    here—immediately. I think the latter. 6 men start to morrow from our
                                    Regt—2 Commissioned & 4 non Commissioned officers back to Indiana
                                    to Recruit up to 95 men each & repair losses—from death &
                                    discharges—3 of our Companies have only 75 men—others 92.
                        
                                    God Bless my Dear little family—
                                    Your Husband
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Carter
                           
                                    Jan 30 1862 8 o'clock P.M.
                                
                        
                                    Dearest.
                                
                        Last night I wrote to Joel [Dewey]—& now to write to yours of the
                                    20. Why do you appologise to me—as if you bored me in long letters
                                    &c—my God I wish I could read one every day from
                                    you—& dont fail to write 2 or 3 a week if it dont tax you too
                                    much—& I wouldnt care if they were a mile long—I
                                    devour evry word from you & the children—I feel as much lost from
                                    [not] being at home as you can feel—indeed its punishment  to me—but, I thought it best and I must
                                    confess—while I am patriotic—I am after money and experience
                                    in surgery more—& without these I should let the aspiring young
                                    men all get their fill ere I had left my little heaven of home…. Well
                                    Love I have no news—it has been so rainy & muddy I keep
                                    close—in a few days I shall ask for that furlough—&
                                    can't know the result till I try. Genl Hooker told our Col to day we should
                                    move in a week mud or no mud—this I don't believe unless we go
                                    by water—& I hear of no expedition fitting out to take troops at
                                    this time. I think he talks so, just to stop or keep so very many
                                    from annoying or applying at Head Quarters for furloughs. If he knows we are going
                                    to move—Il not get off—if he dont know, hel let my application
                                    go to 
                                        Washington
                                    —& Il write as to all my desires & see the
                                    result. There is such an outside pressure on the Government just now—on
                                    Congress & McClellan, I think he'l move wheather he is ready or
                                    not—but good heavens—it is raining yet—&
                                    roads [are] so they Cant haul our tents or provisions or Cannon—so why
                                    should we attempt to go.
                        I may sell my horse tomorrow—I can get a horse that will do me for my gold
                                    watch—then I can send you a hundred dollars more home I cant tell for a
                                    day or two—but if I think there is a poor prospect of my going home Il
                                    send some money. But Frank you get out of Wm Cal-vert say 12 or 15 dollars every
                                    month Sure Cash you will have it—Show the money to Joel
                                    that it is on a good Bank—so he [Calvert] wont get behing too
                                    much—first thing you know he break & owe you 50 or 75 dollars
                                    rent & cant pay. See to this…. Get Juliens speech & read
                                    it—its good—I wrote him a letter—congratulating him
                                    on the effort & to get him to oppose a reduction of officers
                                    pay—I wrote also to Lane. I shall send & have you express my big
                                    watch if I sell mine immediately.
                        II write you again in a few days I hope tomorrow Il get a letter from you.
                        
                                    God bless you all my Dears
                                    Your Husband
                                
                         Tell Ally & Larry to both write— Frank keep up in good
                                    cheer—I expect its dull there & I wouldn't be satisfied
                                    if I was at home.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Manassus
                           
                                    June the 25 1862
                                
                        My dearest.
                        
                        We have just landed from Port Royal—not 15 minutes ago Dr. Brusie had gone
                                    with the sick of the Division from P Royal to 
                                        Washington
                                     & has just come back & meets us here—with
                                    the news that his wife is sick & he has a Furlough to go
                                    home for from 7 to 15 days—Gen'l Shields our Commander is
                                    Mad—he was not confirmed yesterday by the Senate as Major
                                    Gen'l—& we are here rumor says for 2 weeks to
                                    recruit—then possibly go back to 
                                        Washington
                                    —dont know our destination. The  Dr starting to the city I only scribble a short. letter
                                    now that you may the sooner get it.
                        While the Dr is saddling up Il write—The whole Division is here spread
                                    over a Mile Square—We have had violent rains for several days I took cold
                                    and my lungs are quite Sore & I had a touch of
                                    Ague—but—not so as to have to lay up—I rode all the
                                    time—am now feeling better—I believe w'l hang
                                    'round 
                                        Washington
                                     all the summer—We had a nice trip thro 
                                        Va
                                    oh how I enjoyed the lovely scenery—& how I wish you
                                    had been by my side to enjoy with me….
                        My trunk is now at the St Charles Hotell 
                                        Washington
                                     where you staid—& I have a carpet bag &
                                    valise—
                        God bless you my Dearest—Il write soon again dont distress yourself about
                                    me enjoy life all you can dont give up to melancholy—be firm
                        
                                    Dearest good bye
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Bristers [Bristoe's] Station near Manassus
                              
                           
                                    July the 2 1862
                                
                        
                                    My own Dearest.
                                
                        Three days ago I wrote you—I then expected to write next from 
                                        Alexandria
                                    —for we were ordered to be in readiness next day to go to 
                                        Richmond
                                     by water. We have not heard a thing from our Division since
                                    then—wheather they have gone & design to leave us
                                    here—or wheather still in a day or two we are to follow—the
                                    delay being in getting vessels ready I do not know—our Col thinks now
                                    & we all think they dont want us to go to 
                                        Richmond
                                     or have forgotten us, we are so insignificant—but I think
                                    when the order was first issued we were designed to go, but rumor has it to day that
                                    they have been fighting at 
                                        Richmond
                                     for several days & that Mc Clellan has the City & so
                                    the order sending us there is changed. Well—I dont care what they
                                    do—we are her—plenty to eat, such as it is—nothing
                                    much to do—have been here a week to day—& I hope tho
                                    hardly expect we might be sent back to 
                                        Washington City
                                    —as guards. There are a good many of our Boys sick Two broke
                                    their legs last week & I sent 35 to the Gen'l
                                    Hospital—& am prescribing for 30 daily—mostly Bilious
                                    diseases. Today is a gloomy hard day. Raining hard—I sit in my tent alone
                                    the rain pouring down & quite cold—& the men have no
                                    tents but are clustered here & there under their Talma's yesterday
                                    I made out Pay Rolls & Reports all day—Government owes me 400
                                    more.
                        When I get ahead some Il come home tho, I cant but think this War will close up this
                                    Fall. The D—Traitor McDowel is now down in Command so
                                    that—altho he ought to have been thrown out—he cant do much
                                    harm. Gen'l Pope is over him. This Pope I believe is the man that is to
                                    come upermost of all yet. If they [Confederates] have lost 
                                        Richmond
                                     they will be disheartened. Oh, how it rains—evry man in Camp
                                    is asleep or stowed away to keep dry—not a sound is heard. & we
                                    are right out in open fields—what was once farms are now
                                    wastes—houses—fences—  everything distroyed. You speak of leaving
                                    Delphi—Yes, I would like to, but where can we go to better
                                    ourselves—I dont want to get rich anymore, but make a mere good
                                    living,—I believe Ft. 
                                        Wayne
                                     a good point. I do wish you would try & sell the house you live
                                    in—get Twenty five hundred dollars for it
                                    ($2500.00)—sell it—I cant buy a house in any other
                                    Town unless I sell that on—& if I cant sell it—I cant
                                    well move—& if I can I [might] try some other point. Enquire
                                    'round & see if you cant sell it—the house is yours. The
                                    store soon 
                                        Ill
                                    sell for the same—but prefer keeping it if I cant sell the
                                    house…. Well—all our officers are Mad—half of them
                                    talk of resigning—they think we are of no consequence—wont get
                                    into any fighting & all want, they scarcely know what. I am patiently
                                    waiting time [as] I am working for 6 dollars cash a day—for to further
                                    the interest of my family. Pay off those cursd mill debts & get me a good
                                    house & start again even in the world—then Il try & stay
                                    even & leave wild foolish speculation alone 1600 dollars will do me,
                                    & if we are all spared till I get that Il come home—or before
                                    that if my family affairs necessitate me. If Death cuts some of us off, then we cant
                                    helpt—but must submit to the will of 
                                        Providence
                                     & hope for a reunion in Spirit life.
                        Write me if you have found a name for our dear little Boy. Horace or Heber or
                                    Wilbur—Take good care of yourself—all them & Il take
                                    care of myself for your sakes. God bless you my heart is more at home with you, now,
                                    than when in my Boyish Maiden love in Mexico—tho then I thought I never
                                    could live without you—I think more of you now than then—Il
                                    write soon again—for I know not when or where our next move will be. Tell
                                    Holmes'to sell the horse for 90 dollars only. 80 is too
                                    little.—Let him go at $90.
                        I think your cough syrup will relieve you.
                        
                                    Yours truly
                                    E. W. H. Beck.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to his Father and Mother]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Fredricksburg 
                                    Va
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July the 14 1862
                                
                        Dear Father & Mother.
                        It is about 4 weeks since I wrote you—We are running around so much, I can
                                    hardly find time to write the weather is so hot & flies so bad it is a
                                    punishment to sit long enough. Our Regt. has been shifted about just as
                                    tho' we were nobody first after Gen'l
                                    Wadsworth's division to McDowels under Gen' Gray at White
                                    Plains—here we run all over the Shannandoah Valley—then
                                    ordered to report to Genl Shields at Luray—from here to
                                    Winchester—then over near Harpers fery—then back near
                                    Strasburg then down again to Mannassus—then
                                    Warrentown—Culpeper & now last Tuesday noon we bring up at this
                                    Falmouth on the Rappan-hannock river on the bluff opposite Fredricksburg. We were
                                    hunting Jackson & Ashby but took develish good care to keep out of their
                                    way—Il swear I could take 
                                        Clay
                                     & Straw & make better Generals than any we have been
                                    under yet. I most honestly believe they are traitors to our  cause, or else want to protract this war, for the money
                                    that's in it. Shield's Division was broken up at
                                    Mannassus—& we transferred to Gen'l Rufus K King ([son
                                    of] the old Senator from N. York.)
                        Brig. Gen'l Commanding a Division & the old Army of the Valley
                                    instead of running entire under the Traitor Mc Dowel is given to Genl Pope &
                                    3 Corps made of it Mc D—commands the 3d (the third Army Corps.) From what
                                    Pope accomplished in the West, I am in hopes he will do some [th]ing. We drew 10
                                    days rations yesterday & 4 more waggons & tis said we start to
                                    morrow for Gordonsville & Barbersville—west of this 40 miles
                                    & I think on toward 
                                        Richmond
                                    —tho this will depend on how many recruits are sent McClellan
                                    from 
                                        Washington
                                     [Peninsular Campaign]. This is the most lovely country I ever was in
                                    Fredericks-burg has about 7000 whites,—is where Geo 
                                        Washington
                                    's Mothers tomb remains—her Body was taken up
                                    sometime since & btiried at Mt. Vernon. The people are
                                    in mourning here they sent a Regt from here (the Rebels) some-time since &
                                    it came out of the fight at 
                                        Richmond
                                     with only about 50 left. All thro this country you see no young or
                                    middle aged men—the Conscription Act raked them all & half the
                                    women are dressed in mourning. The Negrows are the thriving population
                                    here—they live fat & saucey on the deserted farms; Business
                                    houses in towns are closed up, but Jews & pedlers & army hangers-on
                                    flock in & make business whether or no—tho the people are very
                                    bitter they buy rather than starve or go naked.
                        We are getting some sickness in our Regt. about 50 in the Genl
                                    Hospital's—10 or 15 on hand all the time—had one
                                    drown last week in the river, swimming his horse—I have 2 Ambulances
                                    & first haul 6 or 8 & over this I send off to Genl Hospital. There
                                    are about 11000 Troops here & Mc Dowel has 18000 30 miles above this at
                                    Warrentown. I believe we all move to gether to Barborsville. This is the greatest
                                    country for fruit I ever saw—Cherries—Berries &c every
                                    discription I eat a Pint of Bl'k Berries & milk for desert for
                                    dinner after my Bean soup. Apples & Peaches will be abundant here.
                        We are having it very dry here & hot for about 3 weeks been but one good rain
                                    in this time—the harvest is nearly through & wheat generally
                                    looks well—it is as fine a grass country as 
                                        California
                                     especially West of Blue Ridge.
                        This river contains 4 times as much water as the 
                                        Wabash
                                     but is not wider here than the W—is at 
                                        Lafayette
                                    . They are just completing R. R. Bridge for the 4th time since the
                                    Rebelion began. I think reinforcements will reach Mc C soon so that 
                                        Richmond
                                     must fall & with its fall the Rebellion must soon
                                    close—the first of Nov. must certainly close the whole thing
                                    up—tho a large standing army must make the Devil's behave
                                    themselves for months to come—the best Act ever a Congress passed was the
                                    Confiscation Act.—Did you read Gen'l Banks reply to the
                                    Resolutions of inquiry of his letting Negrows ride & soldiers walk on his
                                    retreat from Winchester—? Ginny had better remain at home now Martha
                                    feels lost while I am away—& if Bowman comes back to Delphi he
                                    can Teach German & Larry can go to him & then be  at home to help take care of the horse
                                    &—but if he does not come (he talks of it) Larry will go back to 
                                        Lafayette
                                    .
                        Write me at 
                                        Washington
                                    , Gen'l Kings Division.
                        
                                    Your Son
                                    E. W. H. Beck.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp 
                                    Fredericksburg
                                    Va
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Friday Evening August the 8 1862
                                
                        
                                    Dearest.
                                
                        Our six Companies, 8 Regt. Infantry & 8 pieces Artillery went out last
                                    Tuesday morning—in direction of Gordonsville, 14 miles from here, we
                                    being 1 mile in advance—we crossed a deep creek went up through a cut
                                    & raided the Bluff in a strip of woods & here about 400 yds to our
                                    left stood in line of Battle a Regt of Rebel Cavalry—they had Carbines
                                    & commenced firing on us our Col got in line our Boys—we had no
                                    Carbines & could not reach them with pistols,—I was in the rear
                                    and near my 2 horse Ambulance—I rode up to see the enemy & turn
                                    back to turn the Ambulance back into the hollow—when they opened
                                    Artillery on us and Shells grape and canister came rattling over our
                                    heds—a shell burst within ten feet of me—knocked my horse back
                                    on his haunches—then I broke down the hill &
                                    the whole Regt—was ordered down and on to the oposite
                                    bluff—but the Boys got alarmed & such a scrambl[in]g &
                                    skeedadaling you never saw—they followed us as full as the cut road would
                                    allow & on the sides fired down on us & Strange to say we had but
                                    one man seriously wounded—5 taken prisioners & 1 of them got away
                                    from them—8 or 10 slightly injured—10 horses
                                    wounded—I killed—we killed two of them in the road coming down
                                    the hill certain—By the time we got up the hill—our men all
                                    saw 20 or 30 (week kneed) in line of Battle the Infantry came up & our
                                    Artillery opened on them then you should have seen them skeedadle—next
                                    morning we persued 7 miles, & to the house where our wounded man lay I
                                    mentioned. 2 weeks ago he gave our Gen'l some idea of their force &
                                    that they were tolling US on with small force while their main body were getting in
                                    our rear on the Bolinggreen road—we wheeled around—came
                                    back—in the meantime Genl Gibbon a Dm squirt of a Brig Gen'l had
                                    sent back to town for reinforcements & Genl Hatch with more troops and
                                    Artillery came out & we gat within 1 mile of our old Camp &
                                    Battleground of night before, Bang, Bang, went the Cannon—about 3 or 4000
                                    Rebel Cavalry & 12 pieces artilry had got in our rear—Gibbons
                                    (our Genl) a lot of surgeons and myself were riding in a group, just behind the
                                    advanced guard—he was thunderstruck—looked
                                    pale—urged forward the Troops—our Cavalry went on ahead
                                    & reported to Genl Hatch he was in our old Camp (they in
                                    his rear too) he ordered our Cav'ly to charge on the enemy—they
                                    had only 5 or 6 companies & our men went in with a yell & drawn
                                    Sabres—The rebels had arranged a trap by forming behind a deep &
                                    terrible mudhole the entire width of the road our front ranks went down in this
                                    & fell & men & horses piled ten feet high—we here
                                    lost 1 horse & about  20 men
                                    cripeled—our Col badly hurt in the side—but on the ballance
                                    went (after the said check), and they skeedadled & we run them 8 miles when
                                    our horses were exhausted—all hands rested & I think 500 men fell
                                    from the ranks of the Infantry sun struck or overcome, injured by
                                    heat—the enemy planted themselves again & again our Cannon opened
                                    on them & again we charged on them & this time drove them about 5
                                    miles & out of the way—here too they stood by beside a deep wide
                                    ditch & had it covered over with brush & the whole Regt. would have
                                    gone is as they did in the mud hole had not 2 or 3 horses outrun the ballance 20 or
                                    30 yards & fell in, & the rest seeing it checked up in time. They
                                    shot one of our men here thro the Brains (Carbine ball) he never knew what hurt
                                    him—we killed one of theirs here whose body we buried & the
                                    Negrows told us the next day they had 80-110 killed & wounded in their
                                    Ambulances—During this time the ballance of their Cavalry were between us
                                    & 
                                        Fredericksburg
                                    —burnt a Bridge Captured 7 of our trains taking out things to
                                    us—& 4 waggons full of the sick that we sent in (the sun struck I
                                    spoke of) & straglers amounting in all to near 100—fortunately I
                                    had 2-14 horse & 1-2 horse ambulance & I hauled all mine along
                                    & lost none—tho we all got in yesterday evening but rear guard
                                    & they lost 4 more this morning. One hour ago our pickets came running in,
                                    & their Cavalry are within 4 miles of town on 2 roads—&
                                    every available man is now sadling up their tired down and fagged out horses to go
                                    out to night & Infantry & artillery are going along but I am
                                    confident it is only Cavalry the enemy have they wouldnt risk Infantry, this [time]
                                    hot weather is so near. Burnsides is here & in all about 30000
                                    troops—but good heavens nothing can be done this hot weather Men cant
                                    walk in the dust & hot sun & carry the load they have to
                                    carry—full one half the men are lost to active service—we were
                                    badly out Generaled—they beat us to death—but they had all
                                    advantages—know every road & bye path &the citisens will
                                    fight one hour & work in the field the mext—: jump their horses
                                    & fight the next. Col Carter showd a want of judgement—had no
                                    decision—disobeyed orders in going so far ahead of his Regt. did not heed
                                    what our advance guards said but bulged ahead—Great God
                                    Such Generals as we have it Seems as tho, our men had lost all Strategy, skill or
                                    honesty. Genl Patrick goes to day, I have more faith in him—we need more
                                    Cavalry here & better armed—we are promised both. I had another
                                    man die this morning Typhoid fev—16 in
                                    Hosp'tl—weather very hot. I stand it well—&
                                    while evry one was sickened out or tired out yesterday I could have started out this
                                    morning I have recd no letter from you since I wrote you last—we are
                                    ocupying a nice new 2% story house for Hospital on the Hill back
                                    of 
                                        Fredericksburg
                                    . & Brusie & I have a room upstairs & are now
                                    writing our Dear good wives, 5 o'c'l'k not a breath of
                                    air stirring & the sun would almost boil one off—is it unusually
                                    hot at home? Im glad of the Draft—Will Sam [Milroy] stand a draft? or
                                    come out? Tell me as soon as they draft who are caught in the net, I hope Wilsons
                                    & Burntragers Boys. Did you get the money I sent you? via 
                                        Lafayette
                                    ? I don't believe any General movement will be made on our side
                                    until reinforced by new troops & cooler weather sets in—the
                                    rebels have at least 300,000 troops in Va & it will take 500,000 of us to
                                    whip them because they wont stand and fight, &  they are citisens one day & soldiers
                                    next—& we have to have so many to hold our points taken. I must
                                    see you all this fall if possible—how I wish it would close up by Nov or
                                    Dec—I hope to get a letter from you tomorrow—how does Dear
                                    little 
                                        Warren
                                     our Baby Boy—God bless & preserve you all
                        
                                    My own Dear ones
                                    Your Husband
                                
                        I traded my gold watch for a horse a large fine colt I have two
                                    now—If I have luck with them.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Washington D. C.
                           
                                    Thursday Sept the 4 1882
                                
                        My own Dearest.
                        
                        I am sitting on the grass in a shade—about % a mile from the old
                                    Campground in the subberbs of 
                                        Washington
                                    —Great God how humilating—I would resign
                                    today—if not for pure shame when we are so badly beaten. What a panic is
                                    here. We left Fredricksburg last Sunday night at 9 o'clk—was in
                                    the saddle all night but only made eight miles—we brought up the
                                    rear—blowed up the Bridges—Depots &c
                                    &c—obetructed the roads LC to keep the enemy back while Burnsides
                                    8000 men could embark at Aqua Creek for 
                                        Washington
                                    —& We the last got on to the steamers last night
                                    [Wednesday] at 12 & reached this city at sun up—& now I
                                    sit here waiting for our waggons & Camp equipage—which may not
                                    get here ere enemy & our orders are to fix 3 days rations go out in the
                                    direction of Harper's ferry—the Rebels has whipped back our
                                    forces from all points & into our own fortifications. Pope
                                    is sunk lower than Hell—where he belongs—[after Battle of
                                    Man-esses, August 301
                        McDowell has showed himself a Traitor & murdered his own men & if
                                    Lincoln or Stanton keeps him in now the people in the North ought to rise and put
                                    down Lincoln & S—& take the reigns in their own
                                    hand—McClellan is again the Commander in the field & I have no
                                    confidence in him—We look tomorrow to hear of Jacksons force destroying
                                    the 
                                        Ohio
                                     and 
                                        Baltimore
                                     R R—& perhaps taking 
                                        Baltimore
                                    —& going in to 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    . & indeed I should not be surprised to hear he had surrounded
                                    this City & cut off supplies—I wish the people would rise in
                                    their might at home—put out all the Generals & Stanton &
                                    get some honest men at the head of affairs—Lincoln is to easy.
                        Segels Command is eight or ten miles from here—& Il try my best to
                                    see Robert [Milroy, a brother of Mrs. Beck] soon—dont know how I may
                                    succeed—He was in the hardest of the fighting Saturday—and all
                                    his men left wont make one Regiment & he was compelled to fall back
                                    twice—most of the new Regiments that went out & a good many in
                                    the old ones run at the first fire—I have changed my mind about the
                                    Southerners—they fight better than we & have better Generals
                                    & no Traitors—are all a unit & will whip us, unless we
                                    all turn out & also  change Generals and
                                    hang Traitors. Dr Brusie is not well and I shall go with the Regt—tonight
                                    & will try & write again when I return…. I dont feel by
                                    Dearest that I shall loose my life in this struggle—but yet I might then
                                    you would feel my loss I Know—Col Wm 
                                        Brown
                                     of 
                                        Logansport
                                     fell the other day—(he married a Perkins) Poor woman
                                    & 4 children how they must feel—If I should fall the Goverment
                                    will pay you a pension I think about 20 dollars a month or 250.00 a
                                    year—(get a Lawyer to get it started for you) & you should take 6
                                    or 700 dollars & build you a neat story & half cottage on same lot
                                    and rent the old house for $150.00 & store room for
                                    200—here would be 5 or 600 dollars per year which would support you all
                                    easily with economy—There is $700 in Bank at 
                                        Lafayette
                                     now—& Gove'mnt owes me 350.00 more tho they
                                    have no money now & I dont when Il send it home—Il send you 50
                                    more & $300 to Bank—that will make an even
                                    $1000.00…. the Waggons haven't come ye e wel not get
                                    off before midnight—My trunk is at the St. Charles Hotell yet all
                                    safe—I might as well send it home—God Bless you all my Dear
                                    ones—hope Baby will get better
                        
                                    Your Husband
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck and Children]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              In the field in 
                                    Montgomery
                                  Co 
                                    Maryland
                                  near Barnsville—36 miles from 
                                    Washington
                                  & 5 miles from the Potomac—15 this side of
                        Harpers ferry
                           
                                    Sept the 11 1862
                                
                        My Dear good Wife & Babies
                        I received your last letter of August th4 & the Delphi Journal yesterday Glad
                                    to hear you are all well—I wrote Joel Dewey a letter on the morning of
                                    the 8th & just as I closed we were ordered up to the village of Poolsville
                                    then held by the rear guard of the enemy that had mostly past on—tho 8th 
                                        Ills
                                     Cavalry & ours were the advance & 2 pieces
                                    Cannon—(I forgot to say in my last letter, that the day after we left 
                                        Washington
                                     Col Carter was put under arrest & sword taken from him for
                                    neglect of duty—poor old fool—it sickened him & I
                                    fur-loughed him for 20 days & he is in 
                                        Washington
                                    ) So we were under Buchannon & we marched in to the town
                                    [Poolsville]—A Regiment of old veterans—the old Ashby
                                    Cavalry—left as we entered+ ach party firing Carbines of
                                    course—then they opened a concealed Cannon on us—their shells
                                    went high over our heads—our Boys charged up to them—they run
                                    with the cannon after about a Dozen shots—the Regt—stood
                                    & 2 of our Compapies A & B—charged into
                                    them—or about 80 men into 400—we had 10 wounded and 1 killed
                                    they had 15 killed and 15 or 20 wounded—Bob Kennedy run at least 3
                                    lengths of his horse ahead of anyone & after emptying his pistol &
                                    Gun—cut for their flag—4 
                                    men protected it & he would have had it in one minute more—but
                                    one bulet cut his sword hand just above the thumb—another thro his
                                    Cart-eidge Box another thro Holster & another thro his left
                                    hand—they cut down his sword & it dropped & wounded in
                                    Bridle hand he wheeled out—but the men all mixed up & the Rebs
                                    whirled & cut dirt & had Col Famsworth the 
                                        Illinois
                                     Col who commanded ordered the rest of our Regt. around them we would
                                    have captured the whole Bunch—Next day the 
                                        Illinois
                                     Regt tried & they dashed in sama way—Killed 4
                                    & wounded several & took their colors & lost none Killed or
                                    wounded—but took about 60 Prisoners—& we moved on to
                                    this place 6 miles—yesterday—we fought with Cannon and
                                    occasionaly skirmishers dismounted & killed some & drove
                                    them—but seen their waggons cross the river again into 
                                        Va
                                    loaded down with Eatables & driving at least a thousand head of
                                    Cattle—To day we (& now there is about 20000 of US) scoured the
                                    Country 10 miles 'round—& over Sugarloaf
                                        Mountain where it is said they are concealed—but God knows
                                    where they are gone—If we let them get away now—across the
                                    river again we ought to be whiped tho—I have no confidence in our
                                    Generals at all. Burnsides is 6 miles from here with a large Army—I would
                                    trust him more than any I know of—Sumner and 
                                        Franklin
                                     are here—McClellan came close & went
                                    back—We travel without tents—slip around like hunting Deer
                                    pop-pop-poping at each other & shelling with Cannon but our
                                    Gener'ls take good care to keep just behind a few hours
                                    & miles—they act as if afraid or desirous of protracting this
                                    war—I am sitting on the ground & by the Candle flicker write on
                                    my knee—it is all hum around & a thousand Camp fires shine on the
                                    hills around—Jackson is too Sma[r]t for us or our Gen'ls
                                    purposely neglect duty & let him get around them in the way he
                                    does—If they stay on this side the Potomac long—there will be
                                    a terrible fight soon or the people of the north will demand of Lincoln many
                                    changes—Great God how that scroundrel Pope let our men get cut up at the
                                    last Bull Run fight—some of our Boys were in it—we lost 2 to
                                    their 1 & many Cannon & Prisoners—Pope sending in a
                                    Brigade at a time until cut up and so on—& at least 70000 men
                                    never fired a shot—I dont think I can spend this winter in the Army
                                    unless they do better & then I must see you at home or you Come to
                                    me—no Dear it would not do for you to come now—We were at
                                    Fredricksburg 20 mils off when that Battle came off—now we are in the Big
                                    Main Army—if a Battle hmes off—Il write you as often as I
                                    can—that was singular about Mrs. Bumtrager. Do send me Baby's
                                    miniature or him sitting on your lap—showing you too—Dear Il
                                    send an order for my horse money to morrow to 742 
                                        Broadway
                                     N York to Rev. T. W. Conway & have him Express to you
                                    $120.00 so you live off it—if what you have & should
                                    collect much make more than you need in the house I would deposit half of it at
                                    Dugans or better—if you can—Keep it only be careful of
                                    it—if you leave the house I would take it along …. I must
                                    Close God bless you all my Dear ones—Our wounded are doing well, I sent
                                    them back to 
                                        Rockville
                                     & Dr Brusie with them—  he will be up some time to night again—Look
                                    on the Map & follow our wanderings—this will learn Ally
                                    Geography—
                        
                                    Yours ever
                                    Beck
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Battlefield
                    Near 
                                    Williamsport
                                  & 12 Mil[e]s from Harpers fery 
                                    Maryland
                                 
                              
                           
                                    7 o'c'l'k morning Sept 18 [1862].
                                
                        My Dearest.
                        
                        I drop a few lines in haste to say I am yet all right—We are in a Brigade
                                    of Cavalry under Genl Pleasanton the 8th 
                                        Illinois
                                     & ours commanded by Col Farnsworth of the 8th 
                                        Ills
                                    —we have been in the advance & under fire of the
                                    enemys piquets this is 12 successive days—but last Saturday eveng at the
                                    Mountain Pass & Sunday al day till 10 o'clk at night—I
                                    it was a terrible Battle they had all advantages holding mountain
                                    passes—but we whipped them out—our loss is heavy but theirs
                                    much more so we chased them Monday fighting all the time—&
                                    yesterday Oh, a terrible Battle [
                                        Antietam
                                    ] again ensued—there must be 60 or 80, 000 a side we have
                                    driven them back about 2 miles but they stand like devels—now as I write
                                    the Artillery in front about 2 miles is opening and we predict annother Bloody
                                    day—but our Army is in good spirits and we are sure of a
                                    victory—the enemy is in bad spirits & short of
                                    ammunition—we took over a thousand prisioners yesterday—Many
                                    of them throwing down their Arms voluntaryly & coming in—We had 6
                                    Genls wounded yesterday—they say 1 is dead this morng & a noble
                                    Major Genl Reno killed Sunday—Report is that Segel & Heintzelman
                                    is at the River with 80, 000 & are keeping the Enemy from crossing if this
                                    is true we will bag most of the Rebels in a day or two. O God what a
                                    sight—the dead & wounded—Yet I have had but little to
                                    do with my own Regt—yesterday only 4 slightly wounded—last
                                    Sunday about 21 wounded & 4 dead—Cavalry Dont do much in Active
                                    battle only as the Enemy is leaving or we are Retreating they then fight to save or
                                    take Artillery—But I helped other surgeons all 'I could at the
                                    same time am obliged to keep close to my Regt—for I assure you can easily
                                    get lost there are so many Cavilry (15 or 20, 000) this is a wearing
                                    time—I hope these may prove decisive battles—If they were as
                                    badly whipped as we think yesterday (for both Armys fired as long as they could see
                                    last night & Sleped right on the field) & [if] it is true they
                                    [Union forces] have Harpers fery—the Enemy will Skedadle—or
                                    perhaps have now—for but few guns are firing as yet now (7:30 a.m.)
                                    & the Battle for the present is over—I wish they had been
                                    bagged—so as to end it—I long so for a letter from
                                    you…. & one is due—your last was last Sunday
                                    week—The shells fell thick & fast around the Dr & me
                                    yesterday—often striking within 60 feet—& one going
                                    thro a Barn—the shed  of which we was
                                    under—but we can always hear them & dodge or lay down &
                                    thy pass over—I will write again in a few days
                        
                                    God Bless you all my Dears
                                    Beck
                                
                        P.S. The Artillery is increasing—& it may be a Bloody
                                    day—we are 3 mils from Sharpsburg.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Sunrise Monday of the 19 Friday [Sept. 19, 1862]
                                    
                              In Same Camp
                           
                                
                        Dearest—
                        I could not get my letter written yesterday morng off & enclose this
                                    scrap—The 2 Armies did not meet in full yesterday but each stood fast
                                    changing positions for advantages & each getting up heavy
                                    reinforcements—3 Regts fought yesterday about 2 hours—Killing
                                    and wounding some—We all predict a terrible struggle to
                                    day—there might be 200 000 a side—I worked yesterday hard
                                    among the Wounded—I guess there are from 5 to 7 000 wounded—2
                                    000 Killed—O God how horrible is the Battlefield—to Day 20 000
                                    will fall if the Two Armies meet—& McClellan is sure to move on
                                    them—Yesterday he prefered to get Rid of the Killed & Wounded
                                    & get up Reinforcements.
                        Segel & Heintzelman we hope are on their south flank—Il try
                                    & find Robt [Milroy]. McClellan is very popular—wherever he rides
                                    he is enthusiastically cheered by the troops—they all say victory is
                                    certain if he is present—Hooker is my favorite & Sumner the
                                    fighting man I got your letter yesterday & 2 papers & Baby Walters
                                    Minature He is a beautiful child—The Dr & I had 6 amputations
                                    yesterday & have more today. I must close as the mail goes….
                        
                                    My love to all God Bless My own Dear Wife
                                    Your Husband
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to Joel Dewey]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              In a field alongside Sharpsburg, Md.
                           
                                    Sunrise Sept. 21, 1861 [1862]
                                
                        Dear Joel
                        I wish I could see you for an hour this morning. I could say much more than I can
                                    write & I could swear this morning for an hour if that would do any
                                    good—Alas & a Kingdom for a General. Joel we
                                    have been fighting for fifteen days—our Cavalry against General Piquets
                                    [Picket's] & last Sunday & last Wednesday beginning Tuesday
                                    evening we had general engagement of which you have outlines by paper
                                    writers—but of course cannot realize the realities without being
                                    present—Even then you can only see effects often for our Battle-line
                                    Wednesday [Sept. 17—
                                        Antietam
                                    ] extended over 5 miles in front. I send the B[altimore]  Clipper an account which I like the best of
                                    many—Today Sunday our Regt & the 8th 
                                        Illinois
                                     (that remain together) are resting—the first for a long
                                    time—having actually been ruled out to day as unfit for
                                    service—Men tired and horses lame & run down & so I write
                                    a few minutes at a time as I can catch it—I have been over the Battle
                                    ground was in hot places during the Battle had my horse shot while riding him
                                    & God grant you may never see the destruction of human life & the
                                    human misery I have here witnessed. A week ago today we had a terrible battle at
                                    South Mountain & I think taking great pains to approximate as near the facts
                                    as possible that we then had about 1000 killed and 2000 wounded—of the
                                    latter I think this is a low estimate and just about double of the rebels &
                                    taking about 5000 prisioners. I may be far under the mark all around but the facts
                                    are so difficult to get at (the Battle front extending 7 miles) First reports so
                                    universally exaggerated that I come under even Genl McClellans first dispatch
                                    6000—in the loss of Rebels—Next morning early after our
                                    victory our Cavalry—we are in a Brigade of 2500 commanded by
                                    Gen'l Pleasanton (Directly under McClellan) who was formerly a Major of
                                    Cavalry in Regular Service—We were ordered in pursuit & oh God
                                    how we slashed & cut their rear guards—took several hundred
                                    prisioners—Strewed the road with killed & wounded & guns
                                    & 4 cannons—the enemy took different roads—all toward
                                    the Potomac—panic stricken—leaving every superfluity that they
                                    could make the better race. Our loss in the race was about 50 killed &
                                    wounded—Jacksons front (their Army extending 15 miles) had crossed the
                                    River & now in consequence of the drubbing in the rear or drowning so many
                                    of necessity in their hurry to cross—he recrossed to Stop the panic
                                    & formed in line of Battle on the West Side of a creek [
                                        Antietam
                                    ] dsep & having a high Bluff in places & the town of
                                    Sharpsburg one mile in the Rear. A thousand Shells stoped our Cavalry about noon
                                    & by 4 o'clk P.M. the noble old Genl Hooker (God bless him) came up
                                    with the ola McDowel Corps & attacked them on the right wing. At 9 P.M. both
                                    Cannonading & musketry ceased on account of the darkness & at 7
                                    o'clk next morning—even before the field could be clearly seen
                                    for the dense fog that hung over it—as tho' sickening nature
                                    would prevent the impending bloodshed—A most terrible battle began ending
                                    with the darkness of night once more—Those who have been in all the
                                    Battles of the war think that no one days fighting was as terrible & general
                                    as this [
                                        Antietam
                                    , Sept 171 4& you see by our casualties among
                                    officers—Genls—Colonels &c how desperate was the
                                    fight—both parties determined not to yield until the last man
                                    fell—but strange to say—& I am confident it is true
                                    the Rebels lost in Killed 4 to our 1—Good old Genl Burnside (the ablest
                                    Genl in America) occupied the left—& Hawkins Zouaves were
                                    actually seen to charge bayonets 6 times lifting men on their bayonets—as
                                    Hay on a fork & throwing them down in desperate wrath plunging the deadly
                                    steel throgh them again—I was over Hooker's part of the field
                                    yesterday rather only a part of it—& thro the
                                    center—brought up by French & Sedgewick & I have gathered
                                    notes from two 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                     Brigades that are bringing the enemys Dead—have also been to
                                    11 Barns as many orchards & stackyards & thro the villages of
                                    Citesville & Sharpsburg—both on the pike which mas the  center of the
                                    Battle-ground—& learned all I could of numbers wounded as well as
                                    killed—…. 11 o'clk Dr. Brusie my Asst—
                                    & my Steward & two nurses have [come] just this minute from the
                                    right wing % mile from the village & notwithstanding about 2000 of our men
                                    have been bringing Rebels since yesterday morning (going over the ground &
                                    gathering men & interring first) they counted over 1800 laying in rows
                                    gathered for the ditch—while men in groups there in every direction were
                                    gathering from the yet untouched field. Death so dealt destruction on a front of 4
                                    to 5 miles & on ground over whence thy were driven back about 3 mils. The
                                    calmest men—the clearest heads & my own beliefs—this
                                    morning make our losses at 6000 Killed and 12, 000 wounded in the 2 Battles
                                    & if we had a force of 100,000 as I believe we had—this
                                    percentage is not heavy—or about an average of the hardest fought
                                    battles—the Enemy for some cause or other suffered more 10 or 12, 000
                                    Killed & 15, 000 wounded & prisioners at this Battle alone is among
                                    the lowest estimates. The morning after the Battle—as if by common
                                    consent of both parties—sickened perhaps by the carnage the Armies
                                    remained quiet—hanging positions & working for advantages till
                                    eleven o'clk one Brigade on each side fought in duello 3
                                    hours & a storm [of] Cannonading on the enemy—& during
                                    the day we were reinforced by about 40000 troops—& rumor said the
                                    enemy were as strongly reinforced & we all supposed another terrible
                                    day—when low & behold they had all escaped over the river at Brad-docks ford 14 miles above Harpers ferry & 1 mile
                                    below Sheppardstown. Next day Friday our Army scattered and even
                                    now where they have gone—I mean the two wings, we cannot
                                    say—we only hope they have crossed & are still right and left
                                    flanking the enemy on the sacred soil—but alas for the
                                    center—& while I would not Criticise the plans knowing no more of
                                    them as yet—Scowling faces—deep harsh imprecations &
                                    loud curses hiss at the course & repulse of our center colum and its.
                                    misfortune of yesterday—a reenactment of Balls bluff on a smaller scal
                                    d& had the Rebels been smart,—as terrible as that ever to be
                                    remembered mistake. Yesterday our colum Infantry & Cavalry were ordered to
                                    cross the river. 10 pieces of artillery were placed on the bluff this side to cover
                                    our crossing—no Rebels could be seen—saw a few scattering
                                    piquets—Infantry & Cavalry waded side by side—tho on
                                    the ridge of a Dam just above as many walked or waded. When one Regt. of Cavalry had
                                    crossed the rest were halted until 6 or 7 Regts of Infantry had
                                    crossed—the ballance of our Cavalry rested in the edge of the
                                    river—on the shore between river and Canal1 & on the
                                    towpath—Myself my Asst. & 6 nurses &
                                    orderlies—we always remain together & imediately in the rear of
                                    our Regt. which rested at this moment on the towpath: Our Infantry now scattered
                                    along the high Bluff & cautiously ascended—a few Rebel piquets at
                                    first fired but soon as our entire force had gained the summit—10 times
                                    their number of Rebels swarmed in upon them forcing them [Union troops]
                                    back—pell me1l down the Bluff & over the river as best they
                                    could—of course Our Artillery mowed them [Confederates]
                                    down—but they only slackened their pace & did not stop until we
                                    were forced back over the  river—The
                                    Bulets rained over on the towpath. My squad ran into a Barn & witnessed our
                                    Poor Boys droping on the Bluff & in the river under the leaden
                                    hail—while all our Cavalry [came] back out at double
                                    quick—those that had crossed recrossing & breaking for the rear.
                                    Today our Troops are deploying in different directions & we only conjecture
                                    the future few hours—Hundreds bite their lips to day & wonder at
                                    the singular polocy—the Astute Strategy of the failure or the
                                    feint—tho as I said before I will not criticize—untill we see
                                    whether as alleged, Heintzelman & Seigle are on the other side & are
                                    at this moment taking the Rebels Jackson and Lee into their traps & securing
                                    what many believe could have been done on this side At least the citizens say on
                                    this side the river that the Rebel Army was in a perfect panic—perfectly
                                    disorganized—every man for himself—many drowning in the river
                                    & that had we followed up our victory without waiting 24 or 36
                                    hours—we would have captured the larger part of if not the whole of their
                                    Army—but why did we not? Because they sent in an Armistice early on the
                                    morning of the 18 asking privilege to bury their dead—& at noon
                                    annother truce to hunt for the body of Genl. Longstreet & we
                                        allowed them to go all over our positions in search of
                                    what was nat—the Dead Body of their General—he was alive
                                    & perhaps the very author of the infamous Strategy to find our Strength
                                    & probable design—then, after burying but a very few—a
                                    ruse—they all left & left us to care for their dead (they
                                    manifest very little care for either their dead or wounded) & concluding it
                                    was not healthy to stand annother days fight Skeedadled in the hasty manner I have
                                    mentioned—might we, not have decimated them in following up our
                                    victory—or will you let the man you knock down rise & get away?
                                    Now they are on 
                                        Va
                                    Soil & we shall probably have to follow them to 
                                        Richmond
                                    —polocy—strategy, aside. I could relate many
                                    incidents of interest had I time, & but while many are laughable, some are
                                    exciting because dangerous & others heart rendering. I saw the Body of a 
                                        Brooklyn
                                     Boy a new recruit & that married on Thursday at home Came on
                                    Friday & joined his Regt at Fredrick & was killed on Sunday on the
                                    Crest of the Mountain. One of the places desperately held by the Rebs was the Stone
                                    Bridge over the creek on the 
                                        Pike
                                    —Their Batteries played right on to this bridge & a
                                    curve in the road coming to the Bridge.
                        Hooker Rt a large Body of Infantry Came over to be followed by another Division but
                                    these for the moment hesitating—Gent Pleasanton commanded the Colum of
                                    Calvary to go thru—the 
                                        Illinois
                                     8th led—Indiana 3d followed—Lancers next
                                    &c &c &c the Shells flew so hot & thick here that
                                    many a poor fellow quailed—the understanding wax thtt we were to charge a
                                    Battery—but one man only dodged under the Bridge & one just as
                                    entering the narrow gorge, with his own pistol shot his own right index finger off
                                    & turned back—I was immediately in the rear of the Lancers
                                    & seeing him come bleeding to the rear—supposed him badly wounded
                                    & went aside & dressed the wound—&thus escaped
                                    passing at the time this very undescribable hot place—they went thru with
                                    a yell & in a Keen run & the Rebel Batteries
                                    Skeedadled—When I came thru I counted 13 dead horses 4 laying together at
                                    the end of the Bridge—Our Cavalry separated in Regts ours going in a  ravine to the right—my squad taking
                                    refuge under the shed of a Bank barn of stone basement—" cannon
                                    ball entering the roof & lodging in the grain while we were safe
                                    underneath—& I am sure a thousand shot & shell &
                                    missles struck close around us,—in the road,—on the
                                    buildings—one passing thru the green blinds that were
                                    closed—of the elegant farmhouse across the road, making sad havoc among
                                    plastering & furniture—the old farmer being in the
                                    cellar—the women folks gone—& bounding against the
                                    solid rock of the bluff on the opposite side of the creek—Our Cannoniers
                                    now taking a nearer position & right on the Bluff to cover the Federal
                                    advance up and down the creek belching forth their thunder & the enemys guns
                                    replying the the shells giving a loud shriek as they burst—coupled with
                                    the incessant roar of musketry & occasionally you could hear in the
                                    momentary interval the loud cheers of the charging party—made the scene
                                    wild—grand—& intensely terrific. But I cannot tell you
                                    all & must close by mentioning how my horse was shot. On Friday we gave
                                    Jacksons rearguard an unpleasant push into the river—Our Cavalry charging
                                    on them & as the Boys Say hooping them over—I rode at least half
                                    mile in the rear—they riding fast—we passed [a] house about
                                    200 yds on where [on the roof] men were signalling—a cornfield lay 2 or
                                    300 yds to the left—Dr. Brusie & all but 2 left me fop a moment
                                    & went a few rods off the road to the right—I stoped turned my
                                    horses head toward them, & looked back at the heavy Infantry column coming
                                    half mile in our rear—when a rifle cracked & a ball struck my
                                    horse about 6 inches behind my sadle—entering under the
                                    skin—passing over the spine & lodging, where it still remains
                                    near the opposite hip joint—Our man on the House with the signal saw 5 or
                                    6 Rebels run after shooting—a near cut toward a bend in the
                                    river—these were the enemys sharp shooters—remaining in the
                                    rear to Spy & shoot Cc the [protecting] bend in the river favoring this
                                    & our videttes failing to route them as they passed—
                        My horse is but slightly injured—I shall favor him a few days &
                                    hope no such luck for the future—I had a showy new straw Hat on &
                                    a finely appearing horse I suppose is why they selected me. The Signal officer came
                                    to the road to tell me & the Col of the Infantry that just came
                                    up—that he saw the Rebel after he shot—& their
                                    objective might have been to have picked him but the corn field was too far
                                    off—We rode on the river—our Cavalry there stood at least 20
                                    minutes under their shells concealing our Guns until ready then broke back into safe
                                    places—
                        I must close—I am in good health—tho dispirited that we lost
                                    our gains & I am not alone in this—if we manage no better by Nov
                                    or Dec—I shall quit in disgust Give my love to all—let my wife
                                    read this after you are done—Tell Dan Fichthorn I saw his Brother Lou
                                    yesterday—he is well & gets along well—was not in the
                                    Battle. write me all the news.
                        
                                    Yours truly
                                    EWH Beck Surgeon 3d Ind Cavalry Army of Va
                                
                        Address me still at 
                                        Washington
                                    
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
            [Dr, Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Sharpsburg Md.
                           
                                    Thursday the 2 Oct 1862
                                
                        Dearest.
                        I wrote you last Sunday—& have but little more to say to
                                    day—We still remain in status quo—& lord how our Calhp
                                    stinks—hundreds of hbrses unburied & several thousand dead bodys
                                    only just under the surface the air is putrid—& our sick list is
                                    rapidly increasing—at least 50 now on sick report & our poor
                                    Contemptible onehorse General will not allow us to change Camps—12 Regts
                                    of Cavalry of us are here together & ours & the 8 
                                        Illinois
                                     are Considered by them the most efficient & every other day we
                                    are sent out on Scouts over the River to find the position of and strength of the
                                    Enemy—Tuesday I was out—yester-dayBrusie—We take
                                    turn about in going Generally from 3 to 6 Regts. go together & 6 or 8
                                    Cannon—it is like hunting game—we start their piquets
                                    & persue—yesterday quite a severe engagement ensued & our
                                    3 Regts would all have been Captured but for the active & excellent
                                    Cannoniers—6 Cannon & grapeshot saved us—about 4 times
                                    our number of Cavalry came against us got on our side & rear—but
                                    our guns raked them & kept them at Bay—tho they charged up to the
                                    Cannons mouth once & tried to take it—the 
                                        Illinois
                                     Regt saved it & repulsed them—had 12 wounded
                                    then—none killed—there must have been Thirty Killed &
                                    many wounded—our men seen a number of their dead—they are
                                    reckless of life—at one time Co A of our Regt—Kept 500 at Bay
                                    under a hill & without a Cannon—our Boys & they laid down
                                    their arms & approached within 20 yds of Each other. & conversed
                                    freely—about trading horses—about Compromising &c
                                    &—They got 5 of us last day & we 4 of them
                                    yesterday—so it goes—M Clellan is 3 miles from
                                    here—and our Armies lies up & down the river 30 miles in extent
                                    The new Bridge at Harpers ferry will soon be done & I suppose then a forward
                                    movement will be made McC is very slow & Cautious—Robt &
                                    Segel is down near Mannasas & Warrentown—I believe we can starve
                                    out the Rebels this winter if not whip them & all [that] is need[ed] is an
                                    active Genl to whip them—You are mistaken about Pope he had all of
                                    McClelans forces he needed at Manasas—he had nearly t[w]o to one of the
                                    Rebs but he hadnt Brains to manage more than 8 Brigade of men [He] had the bad and
                                    treacherous McDowl for bad Company & besides he was drunk
                                    all the time his bnder Generals had no Confidence in him—How long we will
                                    lay here yet God only Knows—good weather still Continues—Dr.
                                    Bruisie will resign the last of Nov. & 1 aim to the last of Dec no
                                    preventing 
                                        Providence
                                     While we are on the go—always I feel all
                                    right—but laying in Camp I think much of home & my Dear good wife
                                    & babys I long to embrace you all.
                        
                           Hello Hello—a fuss around in Camp—President
                                    Lincoln has just rode up to Headquarters in an Ambulance & is talking now to
                                    McC & Burnsides—he Came from Harpers ferry this morning The old
                                    fellow is drop [p] ing 'round everywher +he is a good man if he had only
                                    more back-bone—no doubt he is here watching up our Generals &
                                    doing  all to push the war forward as rapidly as
                                    possible I expect he wants to Know the Cause of the delay.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Bell Plain 
                                    Va
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Dec the 12 1862
                                
                        
                                    Dearest.
                                
                        I wrote you last Sunday & we then had marching orders—We are up at 
                                        Fredericksburg
                                     to day but I am here shiping off the sick of the Brigade—I
                                    Cant get them off until tomorrow morning at 6 o'clock—.
                                    Yesterday morning at 4 o'clk & just as our forces were Completing 3
                                    pontoon Bridges at 
                                        Fredericksburg
                                    —the Rebs fired from among the
                                    houses—out of cellars—off house tops &c
                                    &—killing and wounding 50 or 60—Then our Batteries
                                    Commenced shelling the town & I never heard a more terrific Cannonading in
                                    my life—they knocked the town into pie burning very
                                    much of it up— & our troops were crossing all the night the Rebs
                                    retreating several miles—we expected to day to have a general &
                                    severe engagement but—I have heard but little firing
                                    all day. How far we can not pursue them without building up the R Road I do not
                                    know—I have no doubt they will make a stand at the next stream North Anna & then at each branch of the Matts-Po-Mi. If
                                    rain and mud—interferes I dont see how we can follow and we dont know but
                                    that forces are moving on 
                                        Richmond
                                     from other directions—that will hurry them (The Rebs) back
                                    into their fortifications. 1'1 write occasionally—& hope
                                    soon to get into quiet quarters so that I can get off—tho my Asst Surgeon
                                    has not come yet, & from the Communication he sent Lt Col
                                    Chapman—we think he is small potatoes. I am very well—am
                                    anxious to get home to see you & as well as to see what wlil turn up the
                                    next month. this is a beautiful day. [Battle of 
                                        Fredericksburg
                                     occurred the following day, Dec. 131.
                        I am glad Larry is back at 
                                        Lafayette
                                     pursuing his German—Let them send him to any school that
                                    seems best. I want to make a schollar out of him if possible As soon as he can enter
                                    West Point I shall send him there if he is schollar enough at 17 to pass the
                                    examination & of stout build. I guess we'l make a preacher of the
                                    young Curly head—& Fanny & Jinny will make Bonet makers—I have nothing new to write. Il keep you posted if
                                    mails go back regularly & next month sometime will try to get home.
                        
                                    God Bless you all
                                    Your Husband
                           
                                
                        P.S. Since I took out the Ball from my horse he is fatting up—full
                                    of life & as good a horse as is in the Regt. Did you get my letter with the
                                    Chaplain Conways of 
                              
                                            New York
                                        ?
                            The ring enclosed is sent to Fanny by Carey
                                    Smith—the young fellow that Sung for us—I got Fanny to sing
                                    for him—When we was chasing the Rebel Stewart one of his shells flew
                                    overhead lit in a flock of sheep & Killed several—Carey cleaned
                                    one for the mutton & made this ring out of the bone of the leg.
                     
                  
               
                
            
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp 3d Cavalry—near Potomac—Creek bridge 
                                    Va
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sunday Morning May 17 1863
                                
                        
                                    Dearest.
                                
                        I recd your last Sundays letter yesterday—I have for several weeks been
                                    getting your letters written Sunday, on Saturday. I was amused at the town being so
                                    deceived in rejoicing over the fall of 
                                        Richmond
                                    . That was a good sell—Some bugar put that dispatch in on
                                    purpose to deceive 
                                        Richmond
                                     could & ought to have been taken—but Stoneman says
                                    he recd postive orders from Hooker not to go into 
                                        Richmond
                                    , which he S—friends Construe into the meaning that
                                    H—wanted the honor himself of first entering said City—on the
                                    contrary—Hookers friends dont believe this—& H.
                                    Condemns S. for doing so little—the fact is from all I can
                                    learn—he might have done as much more—but he acted as if
                                    scared at every bush—Stonemam is in bad odor with
                                    Hooker & the President—The fact is, all the Gen'ls are
                                    growelling thro each other—Poor little pusilanimous Pleasanton wants to
                                    Command the Army Corps—to have Stonemans place—& he is
                                    about as fit for it as any 2d Leutenant in the Command. I think
                                    Stoneman will be superceded—Anerd was—but
                                    being related to Gov. Curtiss—he had to be respected. & so I
                                    learn is sent to a Western Command.—We Whipped the Rebs in the last fight
                                    [Chancellorsville] & had we followed them it would have been a most complete
                                    victory—but as it, was, it was a defeat—so far as prestige is
                                    concerned. Out generaled—driven back—began when the 11th Army
                                    Corps & part of the 12th had unloaded their Knapsacks & overcoats in
                                    a pile—to get ready for the fight—so the enemy, drove them
                                    from & held this ground—& got about 20 or 30 000
                                    Knapsacks & Coats—& near 20 000 stand of
                                    arms—& would have driven this wing of the army right into the
                                    river, but for Pleasanton getting his guns (12) & stopping 12 of ennemys
                                    Guns—& getting them in line & belching away with grape
                                    & cannister—4 it being dark (11 o'clk at night) they
                                    didnt know—but we had 10 000 infantry supporting—& we
                                    hadnt a man [supporting] at the time—tho in half an hour—the
                                    3d Army Corps swung round & checked effectually a further
                                    progress—& this was Jackson's Army Massing itself on one
                                    of our weak pionts—& here he got his death & the fact is
                                    that his Command was almost distroyed.—His men were seen to come in a
                                    body up to our Cannon mouth & pull their Hats down over their eyes and run
                                    bayonet in hand—right at our gunners—Our Dutchmen were scared
                                    to death at such Madness. From all I can gather our loss is from 12 to 15
                                    000—Theirs about 18 000 to 20 000. They were glad to draw
                                    off—we not follow—& we—Hooker at least glad
                                    to stop & get away—altho he did not fight more than half his
                                    men— & he could not from the hemed up condition & the
                                    thick underwood—& the terrible fire raging thro—the
                                    woods—
                        Either Hooker hadnf heart enough or he could not manage so many men. &
                                    now—Great God—it seems we have settled down into Masterly
                                    inactivity for weeks or months perhaps—for yesterday I had orders to  send for my Hospital equipage & treat
                                    my own sick in Regt. again just as in winter—& this week Dr.
                                    Mitchell of the 8th Pa. & myself are to examine all the invalids of the
                                    Division & discharge the proper Cases, &c it will be a weeks work.
                                    In fact Hooker Cant move forward now—He had about 100 000 before the
                                    fight—Say 15 000 less from the Battle—& from 30 to 40
                                    000 are now going home whose time expires—(every day 2 to 6 Regts) (We
                                    have beautiful & ve[r]y warm weather & we lay on a hill the R
                                    R—passing at the foot & as trains of old veterans pass
                                    us—playing music & cheering—they seem both happy
                                    & sad—glad to go home—& sad at leaving so many
                                    old Companions in arms behind.) Well I enclose you the
                                    orders—Congratulatory—Hookerr]s—a very ingenious
                                    (opiate plaster) thing—Calculated to quiet the nervous fears of the
                                    Credulous. & Pleasantons—which is bombastic—tho his
                                    men, finding themselves hemed in—fought their way
                                    out—& this is the only til-e rlurinq their fery
                                    thev ever done anything but run—& B—does evrerlything
                                    to bring himself in to notice. Hooker must be reinforced by 40 000 men before he Can
                                    advance—& God knows how long that will take"& I
                                    believe, we will simply hold this line—& let the fighting go on
                                    West that must end this Rebellion. Thev have lost their best man Jackson. &
                                    if Grant takes Vicksburg—this fall will wind it up. Well
                                    Im good health—wish the war would end by July—Will get
                                    out if I Can honorably—but fear I Cant.
                        Quite a cry raised again for McClellan—I expect the Rebs will try to hold
                                    on with this war until Lincolns time is up—& then expect
                                    MxClellan to be the next President—& I fear he will &
                                    feel like moving to the Sandwich Islands.
                        I enclose you Col Chapmans photograph—a conceity little
                                    upstart—tho he managed the Regt. well—& will fight. I
                                    cannot hear from Robt.—
                                        Wish
                                     he could get into a place to do something Send me the Bannev—let Dan fold it at the office
                                    & send it—I get all the Journals.
                        I spent the other Afternoon in the 15 Pa Regt John Stroun Brother of Lawrence is the
                                    jun Major & Joe Beck son of Geo Beck is a sargent. I saw Lu Fitchthorn the
                                    day before he went home. We are to have rrezching in our Regt. at 2
                                    o'c'lk—Some Stray Chaplain. I enclose Miss Dickinson in
                                    Leslies you may have seen—it would be well to examine all these pictures
                                    for matters of interest to instruct the children. Do our papers say anything of her
                                    as a medium—the papers are all puffing her, as a (Joan of Arc). I wrote
                                    you in my last concerning the sale of the Drug store & Picture. I sent you
                                    by express last Tuesday 620 dollars—hope you have it—Get some
                                    one to keep it for you—unless you could hide it effectually & get
                                    nothing in the wag of interest. 320 dollars more due me in 2 weeks. Ally &
                                    Larry never write me a word—Is Larry forgetting his Dutch or has he
                                    anyone to hear him read occasionally—he should have. Direct your letters
                                    as usual—Pleasanton is our Division Commander
                                    still—Stoneman—Commander of the Corps. Keep in good
                                    cheer—give me your impressions of Hooker God bless you all my Dear ones.
                        
                                    I will write often as I can
                                    Your Husband
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              1st Division Cav'ly Corps Hospitl
                        Aquia Creek
                           
                                    June the 10 1863
                                
                        
                                    Dearst
                                
                        Yours of the 31st ult. came last Monday. You seem to be satisfield if I am to have me
                                    remain from home till Oct 1864—Well, I wont do it—unless made
                                    to—I am not satisfied now—but feel it a
                                    duty—& at the same time think the Cash I make is better than back
                                    account—for awhile—& also that my stay will make an
                                    increase of my practice at home. I long for my good home & to romp with my
                                    little ones—I love the associations of home & feel that I am
                                    missing a great deal—yet, its all experience. No, I will never leave home
                                    again if I can help it after this adventure. I must get home this fall, if I can get
                                    out honorably—even tho. the war continues & if Grant
                                    succeeds—& the war declines—I will get out much
                                    sooner. I would like to be there for a fall practice, yet. I cant leave here unless
                                    the war declines—I still think Jim is right in thinking
                                    the war will close by midwinter. He said Vicksburg would fall in
                                    about 3 months….
                        The only thing, troubles me, is to determine the best place to
                                    locate—I dont feel like the drudgery I must undergo at Delphi to get
                                    anything ahead yet, I expect it best for a year or so anyway. How is the health
                                    there? Is Thomas doing much? Is the Homoeopathist doing much? We have 133 sick
                                    now—2 men died last week—750 in Army Corps (the 4 Divisions)
                                    We all lay together—11 Surgeons—including Corps
                                    Director—We was all together Sunday & There is a Photographer
                                    just starting on the hill—& we propose all sitting in
                                    group—& if we do Il buy a copy & send you. Dr. Rulison is
                                    a funny fellow—Il tell you of him when I get home—he is all
                                    vanity— & fanatically opposed to Spiritualism—No
                                    fairness about him—yet a good hearted man. unmarried—a
                                    professed musician. Well, I am comfortably situated—has been very cool
                                    for several days buy now is very hot again.
                        Our Regt. Brigade & Division went up to Warrenton some days
                                    since—crossed the river to search for the enemy & found Stewarts
                                    Cavalry had a fight—& our Brigade Commander Col. Davis was
                                    killed—We lost a good many—dont Know the particulars
                                    yet—I will not close my letter till morning & may learn something
                                    more. This will give our Chapman command of the Brigade Davis was a Regular, a
                                    Mississipian by Birth—a proud tyranical devil—& had
                                    the ill will of his whole Command. & Il bet was Killed by our own Men. We
                                    have our Division Infantry over the River—& behind rifle
                                    pits—below Fredricksburg—Hooker is frying to watch Lee & is on the sharp look out to Keep him from getting
                                    away from him tho I fear he will have to fight him again soon—on one side
                                    the river or the other If Hooker can succeed in keeping Lees & 50 or 60000
                                    troops quiet & idle here this summer—that is enough for
                                    him—all he need do—the fighting & ending the Rebellion
                                    must be done in the West.
                        I got 2 rolls Spiritual [ist] Papers & the Journal last Saturday. Enclosed
                                    find Rulisons Photograph See vanity sticking out. Have had no  answer yet from Robert. Dont believe it
                                    prudence to try to be transferred. Of course my Salary is not increased comeing
                                    here—There is only one Salary for a Surgeon in the
                                    whole Army—whereever he is or whatever he may do. The poorest or the
                                    best—get all the same—& no difference in
                                    rank—no promotion. Tell Allie a Gentleman gave me a
                                    beautiful gilt-edged morrocco bound volume of Tom Moore with
                                    en-graveings I will keep nice & clean for her Library.—I hope she
                                    is learning music & also reading the Redback Histories. (There [are] seven
                                    more sick men one wounded just come—I must stop & see to them)
                                    will close tomorrow. The 11 [June] 6 o'clk A M & before Breakfast. Our Brigade of Cavalry had a severe fight &
                                    Davis was killed. They brought his Body here yesterday & forwarded it to 
                                        Philadelphia
                                    . About 60 Killed & wounded—& we had to
                                    return from superior numbers. We have a rumor that Vicksburg is ours—hope
                                    its true—Their downfall begins now. General rejoicing among our Brigade
                                    that Davis was Killed he was such a Tyrant. A West Point Man & a Southerner—proud spirited—he
                                    led the 8th N York Cavly in a charge & was 20 feet ahead of his men when his
                                    body was pierced by balls. Chapman will now Command the
                                    Brigade—entirely too young & conciety. I wish I could take
                                    breakfast with you this morning. I hav my horse & mule here. I wish Larry
                                    had "Mulie" she is a fine animal. I wrote Dr.
                                    Blanchard a letter yes-terdy—Il write Father Gwin in a day or so I got
                                    Delphi Journal yesterday evening. Are you ever influenced now—have you
                                    gvien up your Circles [Spiritualist]. Joel ought to write to "Lucy of
                                    [about] the Davenport Boys to get Geo W Julien to defend them in 
                                        Richmond
                                     [Indiana] this Court—he lives in that County—is a
                                    Spiritualist—& one of best Speakers in the State. Well I close
                                    & write in 4 or 6 days again God bless you all—Tell Fanny
                                    & Jinny to write to me Larry & Ally might write—they
                                    ought to practice once a week—
                        
                                    Goodby my dear ones
                                    Beck
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Hd Quats 1st Cavly Brigade 1st Divis
                           
                                    Friday eve Sept 4th 1863
                                
                        
                                    Dearest.
                                
                        It is a week yesterday since I wrote you—I failed to get your letter last
                                    Sunday & so put off writing till next day—as I had got
                                    Joel's letter on Sunday written the Sunday beforh—I looked for
                                    yours the next day—but the next day we were ordered off suddenly
                                    & quickly—& the whole Brigade moved down to
                                    Falmouth—Killpatricks Division who occupies that end of the
                                    line—had to run away down the neck along the
                                    river—Our fellows let the Rebs board them in the night & take 2
                                    gun Boats from them—& then a brigade crossed & menaced
                                    our left—so Killpats whole Divis. sent them back Kiting & we done
                                    his picketing in his Absence—& he got back yesterday morng
                                    & relieved us—& we started back to our proper position 2
                                    miles from Catlette station. Our mails did not follow us nor the daily
                                    papers—& on my arrival I 
                                    found your good long letter of the 23. I have so rejoiced to find Walter
                                    better—if you will always be calm & not become excited &
                                    trust to Our Spirit friends, they will direct you—in the treatment of our
                                    little one. I found annother thing on my return to—My big
                                    horse—2 Squadrons of our Men were left behind & the
                                    Boys—hunted 'round for my horses and found George 5 mils from
                                    here in the 82 
                                        Ills
                                     a man claiming him—They made him dismount
                                    suddenly—but have not found Genny yet—I hope & think I
                                    will yet—she was such a noble animal—she can pace faster than
                                    Frank can run. Things and country look very desqlate down at 
                                        Fredericksburg
                                    . The Town & river bottom is full of
                                    soldiers—(Rebels) of course. We exchanged papers with them &
                                    talked over some [things]. They very much wish, the war would stop. So do
                                    we—& I hope to get home this winter—I want to bad
                                    enough—& will or you must come to me. I wish you would get me
                                    ready—until my next letter arrives to send me by Express—a
                                    pair of stout large canton flannel drawers 2 pairs stout woolen
                                    socks—& one heavy flannel or knit undershirt. I have one
                                    undershirt—but my drawers & socks are worn out They can be put in
                                    stout paper & directions pasted on—be sure & have Drawers
                                    long in leg & large around the waist—& the shirt
                                    large—I have over shirts. You might—get Walters &
                                    Allys picture together—She holding him—& put in the
                                    package—put in a pair of Buckskin Gloves lined—Il not have my
                                    furs sent—hoping to be home for them
                        Im tired & covered with dust & Il close for the
                                    mail—& write again in 3 days—I wish I could fulfill
                                    your dream—I would God bless you all my darlings
                        
                                    E W H BECK Surg'n in the 1st Brigade 1st Cav.
                                    Div.
                                
                        P.S. Dan's Journal of August the 26 just came. I fancy I see the
                                    children ready for the show tomorrow. I get the Herald. When you
                                    write again send me 50 cts worth postage stamps.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Hd Qtrs 1st Brigade 1st Divis Cav'
                           
                                    Sunday Nov the 22 1863
                                
                        
                                    Dearest
                                
                        I am back from Division, to Brigade Hd. Qtrs. The Staff here is so much smaller
                                    & have so few visitors compard with the other, that I am quite lonesome a
                                    longing for hom—r active duty—fighting—anything to
                                    Kill time—for I long for winter to set at rest any Anticipated movement.
                                    Last letter, I supposed we would move ere this—to Day, our Commisary
                                    & Quartermaster is filling his waggons with 10 days forage &
                                    rations—& all concur that this means move—& forward too—The Enemy is in gunshat
                                    across the River Rapidan—their Caval'y is on our
                                    Right—  across Robinsons River,
                                    & our Divis will have to fight the first or second day. Just as soon as bad
                                    weather sets in & we seem to settle down in position I shall apply for 25
                                    days leave—or if we move back to where you could be made Comfortable, I
                                    will send for you. We have had 24 hours Rain—but today it is
                                    pleasant—tho now 4 o'clk P.M.—it is growing quite
                                    cool—& Dick is just building a log &
                                    rail fire in front of my tent. I have nothing good to read—got the Herald
                                    of Progress last eveing—but some how they seem flat of late—In
                                    fact, how strange that the early pioneers of Spiritualism with Davis have all
                                    drifted off & disavow their early faith—how is
                                    Fishbaugh—&c—I wish our time was out—the
                                    war over & I quietly seated in some flourishing place in practice. I only
                                    hope Congress will Raise the wages of Officers of the Army this winter. It ought to
                                    be everything is so high—my salary will but little more than keep you all
                                    decently & snugly—& things I want you to
                                    have—if it takes every dime. I enclose a list of Music
                                    a Young Leut who is quite a performer—& keeps
                                    posted—gave me with one or two added in pencil by Dr.
                                    Hard—& you can get them thro Frank Burns at just the same price I
                                    can buy them for—so get some or all & learn them. I will finish
                                    after the mail comes.
                        6 o'clk P.M. The mail has come—but no letter—how bad I
                                    feel—orders have come to move forward to-morrow morning—so we
                                    will have no mail for several days—perhaps a week. I wish you could write
                                    promptly once a week—& if on Sunday—See it in the
                                    office same evenig—& back it in as large letters or writing as
                                    you Can makd—oel's letters Comes in 5 days, yours 7 & 8
                                    & I Can only account for it by his being so quickly (because large &
                                    plain) read & the Small writing by the quick careless Clerk at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     or 
                                        Washington
                                    
                                    misread & neglected.
                        
                                    God bless you all Goodbye for the Present
                                    E. W. H. Beck
                                
                        Il write again when opportunity offers.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Haxall Landing James River
                              
                           
                                    Evening May the 17 1864
                                
                        
                                    Dearest.
                                
                        I wrote you a hurried & disconnected scribble in pencil the 15 the moment we
                                    landed on this River at Malvern Hill—Next morning we
                                    Came 4 miles down the river & Camped, & have been resting
                                    since—tho to day the men all drew 100 rounds Ammunition—5 days
                                    rations & 3 days forage & began moveing at noon—to return
                                    to our Army, via Kent C. H. but just as we got under headway an order Came to our
                                    Corps Commande:. Gen'l Sheridan—from Gen'l 
                                        Butler
                                     to stop—go into Camp again—& here we are
                                    again—waiting every hours development. Yesterday Rlorning we were wakened
                                    by heavy Cannonading & musketry—Beauregard Came out & met 
                                        Butler
                                     & they had a hard fight for 5 or 6  hours & the Rebs wniped 
                                        Butler
                                     back—
                                        Butler
                                     has so many new troops & negrows—& they Cant
                                    fight old Troops—the Rebs fight live devels.
                        So I conjecture, 
                                        Butler
                                     is scared & may tomorrow order us over the river
                                    here—on to the south side—& help him out—We
                                    seen the papers of the 13 & 14 & Everything looks encourageingly
                                    from Grant—tho. I fear unless he gets strong
                                    renforcements, he cant drive Lee over both the North &
                                    South Anna Rivers—both have high bluffs. What a terrible life this
                                    is—& heavans—how I wish this may be a successful
                                    Campaign & break Lees Army to pieces—I want to
                                    get home—I think of you hourly & long for the quiet &
                                    love for my own little home—it is Heaven compared with this—so
                                    much of this—hard work—hard living—blood &
                                    suffering to look upon—I stay to do my duty untill my time is out or
                                    circumstances give opportunity & I quit & let some one else try
                                    it.—We lost about 1000 Killed wounded & missing in this
                                    trip—& horses played out—So terrible to see evry time
                                    a poor horse would give out by sheer exhaustion—out with a pistol
                                    & shoot him—break up the saddle & walk on—A
                                    mile above here is a magnificent Mansion & gardens. & the day we
                                    came in—we caught a party of 25 Ladies the Elite of 
                                        Richmond City
                                     that Came down the James on a pleasure Excursion—&
                                    we wont let them go back. Gen'l Lee's Daughter is among
                                    them—Oh but I would like to hear from you—no word for 4
                                    weeks—how long—God grant this terrible time may pass soon
                                    & we may all meet again…. Give my love to all I can only write
                                    when opportunity offers. Continue to write Sundays.
                        
                                    God bless you my dear ones
                                    E W. Beck
                                
                        P.S. Cant get my letter off from here & we move this P M 9
                                    o'clk—will wait further oportunity. I have no pen &
                                    Ink with me
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              White House Landing Pamunky River 
                                    Va
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sunday May the 22 1864
                                
                        
                                    Dearest.
                                
                        The enclosed letter of the 17—written on James River
                                    I failed to get mailed—We have been traveling 'round thro 
                                        Kent
                                     & 
                                        Hanover county
                                    s distroying bridges & R Roads & robbing the poor people untill my heart is sick at the distruction of property
                                    & distress of the people—My Division have had no fighting since
                                    our Meadow Brigade fight a terrible one when we Killed their Chief
                                    Genl Stewart & also Gen'l Gordon. The 1st Division fought yesterday
                                    a couple of hours—We Can whip their
                                    Ca'l'y—& they Cant spare Infantry to follow
                                    us—We come here for rations & forage—get 5
                                    days—then poke round in the rear of Lee's Army to pounce upon
                                    prisoners in Case Grant whips Lee—which he Cant do
                                    untill he gets more Men—I believe Grant has had the worst of the battle.
                                    This is the farm Gen'l 
                                        Washington
                                     Married Mrs. Custis at—the farm is  now owned by Gen'l
                                        Lee's Son FitzHugh Lee. What a
                                    lovely place it has been—now Covered with graves of 2 years ago
                                    [Peninsular Campaign] I am quite well—tho my Ankle still troubles me
                                    some—I am heartily tired of this dirty life—This nice Sunday
                                    morning I am thinking of my little ones dressing up & wish I was with
                                    you—hope the time is not far distant now. This is a hard
                                    trip—more than 2000 horses & 1600 men have droped Killed wounded
                                    & prisoners since we started—yet we have done the enemy
                                    incalculable injury—We heard cannonading yesterday on James
                                        River—hope 
                                        Butler
                                     has done better now—he was scandously whiped by half his
                                    numbers last Monday—I will write evry oportunity.
                        
                                    Yours
                                    E W H Beck
                                
                        
                           Oh—after I had sealed & wrote as I felt so
                                    blue & closed my letter—& started to the mail
                                    bag—I met Mun who had overlooked—&
                                    handed me your last Sundays letter—O I feel a hundred per cent
                                    better—so glad it came—We all feel a little
                                    blue—for we start tomorrow & expect a terrible
                                    fight—& our old Chief Johny Bufford got sick Friday &
                                    went to the City—& we are Generaled by a young drinking fellow by
                                    the name of Merrett—in whom we have no Confidence. We always feel safe
                                    with Bufford.You are mistaken for once in your impressions—We had no
                                    fighting Since 8th—but have been laying cosy & snug our Hd Qts at
                                    least since the 10. This month I hope will be the last of the season—as
                                    it will to many a poor fellow—certain. Am glad Robt had a good reception
                                    I hope Robt will get a new command now.My time is up in 3
                                    years from receiving my Commission tho, if the Regt was sent home, I Can be sent
                                    with it by personal application—no doubt of this—for I am on
                                    Detached Duty—that was Commisioned for a special Regt. The Govt Can Keep
                                    me in 2 months after the time of th Re& expires yet they would not do it. I
                                    look for Allys letter & pictures with anviety—Just heard of my Carpet bags—so Il get your picture again when I get
                                    to 
                                        Washington
                                    …. Sgt. Berry is right—he ought to be a
                                    major—at least a Capt & Can be one by trying.
                                    Goodbye my Dearest ones God Bless you all. B—
                           
                                    Have no anxiety Il take care of myself.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Hd Qtrs 2nd Brigade 3rd Divis Cav
                           
                                    Sunday July 3 1864
                                
                        We have just returned yesterday Evening to this Camp near City
                                    Point—from the most terrible Raid on Tecord-I have
                                    no time now to do anything more than say thank God I am safe from
                                    it—& I have no language to Express the horrors & labors
                                    of these 11 days. We went  out 7500 strong lost
                                    2000 men & 3000 horses. Killed wounded & missing. We went swimingly
                                    & distroyed their railroads nearly to the 
                                        North Carolina
                                     line but on our return they met us at evry point on the Petersburg
                                    & Weldon Ro[a]d—with Cav—Infantry &
                                    Arty—We lost all our wagons all our Cannon (14) all our
                                    prisoners—previously Captured—1000 of the
                                    Negrows—Coming with us—Men women & children shot down
                                    without mercy. We traveled 4 days & nights without one hours
                                        sleep & had but one meal victuals in each 24
                                    hours—in 8 days in the 11—& 2 in the other 3
                                    days—they cut us in 2 partys—& Genl Kants got in
                                    first—broken up—& partys Came in piecemeal &
                                    we (my Brigde) lost one half the numbers—& are still comeing
                                    in—traveling at nights & living on the wheat & berys in
                                    fields—I am vry much exhausted—& have a little
                                    Diarrhoea Will be well however—in a few days—I lost my
                                    Med[ical] wagon Drove all my Ambulances (140 wonded) in a line left a Doctor
                                    & 10 men with unhitched our horses & left all the poor fellows by
                                    the Roadside—Our Hd Qtrs wagons were abandoned & I lost my Carpet
                                    Sack—with all my shirts—socks Handkerchifs one fine pr
                                    pants—papers &c &c &c My Amputating Case
                                    & a fine beautifull litty rifle worth 50 dollars I had captured &
                                    intended taking home for Larry.
                        I can never give you an adaquate idea of this raid untill soon I hope as I pillow my
                                    head on your dear bosom I can tell you all. The Rebs fired into & with Saber
                                    Cut & slashed the poor Contrabands—women & children
                                    Killing most inhumanly—& such shrieks was terrible. At a Small
                                    river with one bridge over hundreds jumped in & half never got out horse
                                    & rider Sinking together—2 of my Doctors were
                                    Captured—I fear one wonded—I believe Candidly I had Spirit
                                    help—for I was Calm & cool & acted for self safety
                                    & also done my duty—O God what blood &
                                    horror—I am sick of such inhuman scenes—& long for the
                                    day to come that I can quit—I would not go on annother such a raid fo
                                    2000 dollars—cash & pray we may not be sent again while my time
                                    lasts. I got your letter yesterday of the 19….
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Head Qtrs 2d Brgde 3d Divis Cav
                           
                                    Monday morning May 30 [1864]
                                    
                              at the crossing of the
                            Pamunkey River near 
                                    Hanover
                                  town-Hannover Co Va
                           
                                
                        
                                    Dear One.
                                
                        We reached this point yesterday eve [n] ing & lay here to day untill all the Army trains cross the river. Our
                                    Infantry are all over traveling toward 
                                        Richmond
                                     on 2 parelel roads. & we have 2 pontoon Bridges over the
                                    river—just below the Junction of the two Annas. The 1st
                                    & 2d Division Cav' are in advance—& fought
                                    Saturday loosing 5 or 600 men but driving the enemy. Then goes the
                                    Infantry—then my Division & one Brigade Negrows
                                    (Gen'l Ferars) are in the rear—guaarding the trains &
                                    driving up Stragglers. How admirably Grant has managed the trip—  I can only make it plain to you by showing you
                                    the Map & the points from whence our supplies are shiped. In my last letter written the day we completed our
                                    circuit, (raid) & got back to our wagons—our Army pushed
                                    forward—(we bringing up the rear)—crossed the North Anncc & found Lee so strongly intrenched on the North bank
                                    of the South Anna in a curve of the river thus (see army map
                                    section [not preserved]) & Grant seen at once he could not dislodge
                                    him—so he set a few brigades his Cavalry to demonstrating an
                                    attack—& after dark with-drew his main force & shot round
                                    Lees Tight flank a bold strike for 
                                        Richmond
                                    —at day light Lee had to pull out troops to Keep Grant from
                                    getting in his rear—so this morning the Colums side by side are running for 
                                        Richmond
                                    . 8 or 10 mils apart—& Head of Grants colum within 10
                                    mils of 
                                        Richmond
                                    —but Lee had this advantage—that he had no
                                    obstructions—& Beauregard RR 10 mils out of 
                                        Richmond
                                     to help him in—& Beaure-gard's troops
                                    distroyed the Bridges & made bad the roads to check Grant. So Lee has
                                    perhaps half his Army 40 or 50, 000 men in the fortifications & on the 
                                        Richmond
                                     side of the Chickahomany Creek, & Swamp & we by noon to
                                    day will be at Bottoms bridge 7 mils this side 
                                        Richmond
                                    —on Chickahomany—At this moment we have heavy
                                    Cannonading in front—they retarding & we driving. Our trains to
                                    day all start for the White house on this river for supplies—steamers run
                                    up there—So the Army will again be on the peninsula—&
                                    if we are detained any length of time I dread the sickness that must
                                    ensue—for it is low swampy country. But I hope Grant may get Lee into 
                                        Richmond
                                     & then circumvent it as at Vicksburg & made him
                                    Capitulate—that would end the war, but I fear Lee is
                                    too Smart—but will give up 
                                        Richmond
                                    —move on to Lynchburg & into 
                                        North Carolina
                                     &—Oh what an exciting & terrible time to the
                                        poor people of this country—600 prisoners passed
                                    here last evening. One among them was a woman in male attire—belong to
                                    Artillery. We have so many villains in our Army that rob & steal &
                                    commit outrages take Jewelery from Ladys
                                    fingers—distroy everything in the house—& take last
                                    mouthfull of eatables on the premises even tho a half a dozen crying children stand
                                    by—Just immagine the Citizens of 
                                        Richmond
                                     this morning—I suppose they are removing every thing ere
                                    this—but all the Citizens cannot go & how many anxious
                                    hearts—how many homes made desolate—these are terrible
                                    times—the people of the North know nothing of it—11 venture
                                    the people of the South wish to day they had not began the
                                    war—Judgement—Judgement—
                        I only hope, this Campaigne may wind it up,—I am
                                    tired—& heart sick at the misery & horrors of War. I want
                                    home—I want to be quietly immured in the bosom of my dear little
                                    family—& if possible 3 months more will bring it
                                    around—I dread too to go home on one account—the settlements
                                    to get out of debt—& dread of staying or leaving
                                    Delphi—I find I lack courage—but I must look for another
                                    place…. My present idea is unless changed by Circumstances—if
                                    I Can I will get home & practice September & October—then
                                    hunt annother town—then go to 
                                        New York
                                     a couple months to refresh certain studies—& in the
                                    Spring move to a new place…. To day or tomorrow our Ration train will be
                                    up & bring us a mail & I hope to get a letter  from Ally—how is she getting along, is she
                                    contented?…. We have such a poor miserable Boyish Division General to
                                    command us, that we are Keped back in the rear & looked upon as being out in the cold….
                        Cannonading increasing in front—day hot, sultry, &
                                    dusty—Our Hed Qtrs is in a cedar grove to day—every body with
                                    Coats off setting round writing home for to morrow we are promised a mail shall
                                    start for the White House [Landing] & you may get this in about 10 days. Do
                                    not give yourself unnecessary anxiety—Keep in good
                                    spirits—hope to be with you ere many months.
                        God bless you all—I will write as often as possible.
                        
                                    E W H Beck
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [Dr. Beck to Mrs. Beck]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Head Quart 3d Inda Cavalry Giesboro Point
                           
                                    August 3 1864
                                
                        
                                    Dear Ma.
                                
                        At last I am with the Regt. & we are in Camp at Giesboro Point or Camp
                                    Stoneman some call it—I left Petersburg Sunday morning at 10 A M Got to 
                                        Washington
                                     7 o'clk next morning. Larry was expecting me & was
                                    setting out in front of the house on the curb stone just going to take a street Car
                                    down to 6th street wharf—but when he saw me he jumped & run into
                                    my arms. He has enjoyed himself first rate—& there is not a
                                    building or place of interest he has not been too—-& he knows
                                    every street & locality in the City better than I do. This morning We Came
                                    to Camp—& this minute he is lying on our blankets by my side in
                                    my tent while I write. He is quite well. What day we will start home, I cannot
                                    tell—Nothing is Known of the intentions of the Authorities. We think we
                                    will be sent off about the 15th tho' something depends upon the
                                    demonstration of the Rebs that still hang about the uper Potomac.
                        I heard the explosion & fight in front of Petersburg last
                                    Saturday—but it was a failure—We lost about 3600 men &
                                    Accomplished nothing—the Army feels quite blue over it. Bad managemt
                                    about this City & traitors, are ruining our Cause. The Soldiers are getting
                                    tired. I shall attempt to remain a day behind the Regt. & then Stop at
                                    Lewistown one day to have Larry See the place & people. & Mother has
                                    written me She would be there. She wants to go home with me. She wanted to Come here
                                    & go by N York but I must go straight to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     to be mustered out & paid off.
                        She will not stop at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     but go on straight to LafayettP—At least I will have her do
                                    so I want you & the little Girls to meet me there. I will telegraph you the
                                    day I reach there—& you be ready & come on next
                                    train—for we will be several days being paid off. I expect 
                              
                                 1 Larry, Ally, Fanny, Ginny,
                                            Walter—mentioned at various times in the letters of Dr. Beck were
                                            his children.
                           
                                     I shall have to pay my own fare &
                                    Larrys from Lewistown, but I prefer it—to riding in a crowd of such
                                    Customers as these fellows. They wanted me to remain very bad on Gen'l
                                    Chapmans staff—but 1'1 try home now.
                        I have nothing of interest to write. I got your letter of the 24th ult'.
                                    Larry wrote you last week. He is a close ob'server & this trip wlil
                                    do him good—he talks little, but thinks—& I believe
                                    will make a good thinker—He certainly is a good Boy. Mrs
                                        & Mr Howard think him an exception of a Boy.
                        You need write no more—unless some accident occurs Telegraph to Howards. 373 7th street.
                        
                                    God bless you Ma
                                    E W H Beck
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               National and State Banks (A Study of Their Origins). By LEONARD C. HELDERMAN. 
                        Boston
                    , 1931 Pp. xi + 178.
            Professor Helderman's study of origins of national and state banks was first submitted as a
                    doctor's thesis at the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . There it won the favor of the history faculty. Subsequently it was submitted in the
                    Hart, Schaffner & Marx Prize Essays competition and there won the favor of a committee of
                    distinguished economists. The volume is therefore unique in that it has been passed upon and
                    approved by both historians and economists. Mr. Helderman's work might very well come
                    within the purview of both groups for it covers a phase of American history which is of considerable
                    economic importance. The treatment is frankly historical but it is all the more valuable for this
                    very reason; the roots of our present financial structure are examined with care and in such a way
                    as to throw light upon the trend of development of our financial institutions.
            The scope of the work may be indicated by the words of the author for he points out that
                    "Secretary Chase, in recommending the National Banking System, said that his proposal was
                    not an ‘untried theory’, but that it was based on practical experience. This
                    volume covers, in the main, the experience which Chase had in mind." Thus the author has
                    made Chapter I cover the panic of 1837 in its international aspects, while Chapters 11-V are devoted
                    to the experience of selected states with banks and banking. Chapter VI considers the problem of
                    immediate origins of the National Banking System during the Civil War period, Chapter VII is a
                    summary of the origins of technical principles and Chapter VIII treats some of the later influence
                    of early state experience.
            In carrying on his research Professor Helderman has examined with care the primary sources from which
                    his work is largely drawn. But he admits that he has not examined all primary sources for
                    "several systems, notably those of 
                  Pennsylvania, Virginia
               , and 
                        Maryland
                    , are omitted;…" The volume does not purport to be a complete
                    history of antebellum state banking nor is it intended as a manual for the  practical banker, though doubtless many bankers will find its contents
                    of much practical value. But Professor Helderman appears to doubt the value of his work to
                    economists for "The economist in reading an historical dissertation frequently feels that
                    it is an antiquarian essay, bristling with formidable footnotes pointing toward and signifying
                    nothing. Many historians would not only concede the point but applaud it. But many monographs,
                    deadly as they are, must precede interpretation."
            It is true that this volume is well documented and this will, in the opinion of most economists who
                    study and teach economic history, add much to its value. Economists appear to be as fond of
                    documentation as are historians, and Propessor Helderman has performed a distinct service in
                    re-examining the original sources with a minute care which will give scholars a feeling of
                    confidence in his work. The writer cannot agree that many economists will consider this and similar
                    monographs "deadly". There is a very considerable group of economists both
                    teaching and investigating in the field of economic history which welcomes a contribution from
                    historians. Indeed, it is the feeling of the writer that economists in general will regard Professor
                    Helderman's work as a contribution.
            This volume traces with care the origins of the distinctive features which found their way into our
                    earliest banking institutions. The author has followed the main currents which account for our
                    present banking organization from the earliest beginnings down to the establishment of the National
                    Banking System. He makes it clear that our present system is composed of elements taken from a
                    variety of sources. "Under the lash of economic distress (following the panic of 1837) two
                    clear tendencies emerged: one, a reform movement: the other, a sharp anti-bank reaction."
                    Out of the reform movement came the free banking system of 
                        New York
                     and this, as perfected and imitated by other states, became the model of the National
                    system. Both the reform movement and the anti-bank movement are traced in such a way as to show
                    their contribution to the present banking system. But Professor Helderman does not attempt to
                    appraise these contributions. Rather, he confines himself to the business of historical anslysis.
                    Thus one is left to determine for himself whether the impingement of democracy upon the Safety-Fund
                    System with  the resulting Free Banking System is a good or bad
                    thing from a social point of view. In any event it is evident that the great stirrings of democracy
                    of the Jacksonian era gave our banking structure a twist from which it has not yet recovered, shall one say?
            The politicians of various states found the free banking system a convenient device. (a) It could be
                    made the basis of an appeal to the masses, who were only a little more ignorant of economic
                    principles than they themselves, disguised as an attack upon monopoly and (b) it could be made the
                    means of providing a market for state bonds the proceeds of which could be used for public works. At
                    any rate examination of the source material which still survives in 
                        Virginia
                     indicates that the introduction of free banking into 
                        Virginia
                    , if not in other states, can partly be accounted for in this manner. Professor
                    Helderman's work makes it quite clear that when democracy and sound economic policy come
                    into contact, the latter is more than likely to be modified. The masses won the victory against
                    monopoly—against banks created by special charters—but they delayed the
                    establishment of an adequate banking system until 1913. On the other hand, a market for questionable
                    state bonds was found and the "friends" of the people profited greatly through the
                    so-called public works. Out of the mess there arose some excellent banking systems—in
                    Indiana, 
                  Ohio, Louisiana
                and elsewhere from which certain features, permanently
                    valuable, emerged. Thus it may be said that, in a sense, democracy muddled through.
            If one were looking for a sub-title for this study "An analysis of the experience of a
                    democratic society in its efforts to fathom the economics of banking and bank-note
                    currency" might be suggested. The fruit of the effort to adapt democratic conceptions to
                    banking practice is, according to Professor Helderman, the National Banking System. The latter, he
                    holds, "will be seen to emerge from the experience covered". In this contention he
                    is correct and his work makes it evident that the National Banking System was the main stream into
                    which many small ones poured their contributions. These small streams have been examined with care
                    and their relation to the final result is clearly established. Thus we have at present one national
                    banking system and forty-eight state systems with independent unit banks as the main though not
                    exclusive  characteristic. The power of concentrated wealth was
                    diluted at least for a time; this was the result of the impingement of democratic forces upon
                    economic forces. Thus we have the essential nature of the study.
            It is evident that there can be no clear understanding of the present banking situation with its
                    clash between forces making for the continuance of a democratic system and those which look to
                    greater concentration of power without careful consideration of the work which Professor Helderman
                    has done.
            ELBERT A. KINCAID
            
         
         
            
               The John Askin Papers, II. Edited by MILO M. QUAIFE. The 
                        Detroit
                     Commission, 
                        Detroit
                    , 1931. Pp. 829, illustrated.
            For many years Clarence M. Burton has devoted time and money to the accumulation of a mass of books,
                    other printed records and manuscripts pertaining to the history of 
                        Detroit
                    . When it was determined to take up the task of publishing the manuscripts in the
                    extensive and valuable Burton Collection, the Directors of the 
                        Detroit
                     Public Library decided to begin with the John Askin Papers. The first
                    volume appeared in 1928, being also the first in a series known as the Bzirton
                        Historical Records. A brief review of volume I appeared in this quarterly in June, 1928.
                    Attention was then called to the durable quality of the handsome volume and to the fine
                    craftman-ship and general excellence of its make-up. In this respect, the new volume, which
                    completes the Askin Papers, duplicates the fine qualities of Volume I. The earlier
                    volume includes documents falling within the years 1747-1795. The present volume presents those of
                    Askin's later career, the period embracing the years 1796-1820.
            The letters of Askin and his correspondents published in the two large volumes furnish a vast amount
                    of original information relative to the history of 
                        Detroit
                    . Indeed the great array of course matter presented places all students of the history
                    of the Old Northwest and of the states formed from that area under deep obligations to Dr. Quaife
                    and the 
                        Detroit
                     Public Library. While the letters vary much in content, throwing light on a multitude
                    of things related to the period, they furnish extensive information in regard to the business
                    activities  of the times. Almost every document in the two
                    volumes possesses historical value. Many of the letters are fascinating in their human interest and
                    may be read for pure enjoyment.
            The editing has been done with meticulous care. Anyone accustomed to the preparation of manuscripts
                    for the printer knows that Dr. Quaife and his aides have performed a stupendous
                    piece of work. Beyond question, the task has been well executed. It has been the desire of the
                    editor and the printers of the Askin Pupers to produce "books worthy of
                    bearing the imprint of the 
                        Detroit
                     Public Library." The two volumes published are tangible evidence that they
                    have succeeded in fullfilling that desire.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
         
         
            
               Soil (Its Influence on the History of the 
                        United States
                    ). By Archer 
                        Butler
                     Hulburt. Yale University Press, New Hzwen, 1930. Pp. xii + 227, illustrated,
                    $2.50.
            In this volume, the author undertakes a study of the effects of soils on the migration to and the
                    settlement of areas westward to the 
                        Mississippi
                    . He adds a single chapter, "Types of Soil Influence in the West" in
                    which he deals very briefly with the trans-
                        Mississippi
                     country. There is also an appendix (pp 209-215) in which suggestions are made for the
                    study of local areas through the making of a series of key maps.
            "The main theme of the present volume is the quite ignored one of the influences of the soil
                    on American settlement and expansion," says Professor Hulbert at the beginning of his
                    preface. Following three general chapters, he writes a series of strong chapters in which there is a
                    definite attempt to carry out the purpose of the book. Among the best of these chapters are:
                    "The Waterway Keys to our Soil Provinces"; "Highland Pathways of Conquest
                    and Migration"; "The Meadows of New 
                        England
                    "; "The Tidewater Pioneers"; "The 
                        Virginia
                     Piedmont"; "The Grand Advance"; "Beyond the
                    Shenandoah"; "The Conquest of the Alleghanies"; "The Blue Grass
                    Region."
            Though the title is Soil, the voulme is as much a study of the effects of
                    topography on American history as it is of the influence of soils. In fact, the study is what it
                    should be, an analysis of geographic influences with more than the customary  space devoted to soil as a determining factor in the history of the
                    country.
            There is too much rambling and lack of organization within many of the chapters, but in general the
                    content is very good. The pages of the volume abound in sane conclusions and illuminating comments.
                    We are told (p. 53) that, "The student of American history who becomes acquainted with the
                    uplands of his neighborhood, is in the way not only of understanding better just how population
                    advanced and was distributed, but is likely to assay other factors of geography, of soils, forests
                    and vegetation as he never would otherwise." The great influence exerted by the meadows of New 
                        England
                     is fully portrayed. "These rugged states of New 
                        England
                     must be seen in the light of these innumerable spots of vivid green" declares
                    the author (p. 105). By a sure hand, the reader has pointed out to him the many ways in which the
                    economic, social and political life of New 
                        England
                     was affected by the "diminutive meadows" of that section.
            In regard to the Old Dominion, it is asserted that "Beyond anything known in New 
                        England
                    , the history of 
                        Virginia
                     is the history of her soil" (p. 109). The "garden spot of the Middle
                    West" is found in 
                        Kentucky
                    , concerning which area we have the statement (p. 187) that, "It would be
                    difficult to overestimate the influence of the Blue Grass Region of
                    
                        Kentucky
                     on American expansion and Republic building."
            The chapters dealing with mountain areas and drainage systems would be greatly improved if
                    accompanied by a few good maps. A reader not'thoroughly acquainted with the geography of
                    the Southern Appalachians will have a difficult time when reading chapters three, four, five and
                    seventeen. In some cases, it seems to the reviewer that the author himself is confused. Speaking of
                    the divide between the New River and the sources of the Virginia
                    rivers that feed the 
                        Tennessee
                     system, Dr. Hurlburt says (p. 45)/of this elevation: "Those highlands are in
                    reality the summit of the Alleghenies, but so gradual is the rise that riding swiftly by train or
                    automobile one hardly realizes the mountain barrier is being crossed; this is the ‘South
                    Pass of the Rockies’ over the Alleghenies." The question which we raise here is,
                    whether the divide mentioned has been, or can be, called a part of the Allegheny escarpment by any
                    geographer? Rather it seems to be merely  a higher portion of
                    the Appalachian Valley stretching southeastward from the Alleghenies parallel to the New and above
                    the sources of the forks of the Holston. Is it not instead of a pass, simply a moderate barrier
                    lying across the trough of the Appalachians?
            Truly, Professor Hulbert has taken up the study of a fruitful theme. His volume makes a real
                    contribution, though, as he realizes, it is but a beginning. History is the product of many forces,
                    and it is impossible to correctly narrate or interpret the development of any people or country
                    without giving consideration to each of the essential factors. It is well that the fundamental
                    importance of soil has been so clearly and fully set forth.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            
         
         
            
               Simon Brute' de Re'mur, First Bishop of 
                            Vincennes
                        . By Sister MARY SALESIA GODECKER, O.S.B., Ph.D. St. Meinrad Historical Essays, St. Meinrad, Indiana, 1931. Pp.
                    xliii + 441, illustrated, $4.00.
            The author of this book, perhaps unconsciously, carried out two purposes: one to present to her
                    readers an edifying account of a holy and devout churchman; the other to give a detailed and
                    accurate biography of a historical character. Bishop Bruté lends himself admirably to
                    either purpose. He was a "man of God," energetic in every good work, denying
                    himself everything in order to give to others according to their needs, contemplative, even
                    mystical, in his communion with his Lord, always with an eye single to the promotion of the Kingdom
                    of God in this world and to an eternity of blessedness hereafter. He was also a person of historical
                    significance—one of the greatest of the comparatively small group who laid the foundation
                    of the Roman Catholic Church in the 
                        United States
                    .
            Sister Mary Salesia's biography presents Bishop Bruté admirably from both of
                    these points of view. It is to be feared, however, that the combination will cause the work to be
                    received with less favor than it is entitled to. The religiously minded may find historical details
                    uninteresting, and some of the historically minded who are not members of the Catholic church may
                    misjudge the tone of piety which characterizes the narrative. If this is the case, it is
                    unfortunate, for Sister  Mary Salesia has made a very valuable
                    contribution to Indiana history and has given us what may well be regarded as a definitive account
                    of the first bishop of the diocese of 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            Simon William Gabriel Bruté de Rémur was born at Rennes, Little Brittany, March
                    20, 1779, in an upper class wealthy family. Devout from his earliest boyhood he was educated first
                    as a physician, but in 1803 he gave up what promised to be a brilliant career in medicine to enter
                    the Seminary of St. Sulpice and was ordained priest in 1808. After teaching in the Seminary for a
                    while, he embarked for America, then a mission field, on June 10, 1810. He first became professor of
                    philosophy in St. Mary's Seminary at 
                        Baltimore
                    , then was assigned to Mt. St. Mary's near Emmitsburg, 
                        Maryland
                    , about fifty-two miles from 
                        Baltimore
                    . In this little institution he distinguished himself by unsparing devotion to his
                    duties and unselfish response to every spiritual call made upon him. He became president of St.
                    Mary's College, 
                        Baltimore
                     (1815-18) but returned to the Mountain [near Emmitsburg] for the years 1818-34.
            In these relatively humble capacities Father Bruté became widely known for his
                    unselfishness, his austerity, and his spirituality, as well as for his immense erudition. His
                    correspondence with all the leaders of the church in America and with many in 
                        France
                     was extensive and helpful. During this time, as well as after he became Bishop of 
                        Vincennes
                    , he went 'back to 
                        France
                     for helpers, for financial assistance and for the purpose of telling those in authority
                    about the American field. His influence had already become very extensive when, in 1834, Pope
                    Gregory upon petition of the Second Provincial Council of 
                        Baltimore
                     created a new diocese which included Indiana and the eastern part of 
                        Illinois
                    , of which the city of 
                        Vincennes
                     was made the see, and appointed him its first bishop.
            Bishop Bruté took possession of his Episcopal See on November 5, 1834, and from then until
                    his death, June 26, 1839, he labored incessantly with inadequate resources in the upbuilding of his
                    diocese and the uplifting of the lives of all those with whom he came in contact. In his genuine
                    protest against being made a bishop, he had pleaded ill health, attacks of ague, melancholy,
                    timidity, avoidance of all social occasions, inability to, converse in English ("I lose the
                    half of it and I  am not understood"), the early loss
                    of all his teeth, incapacity of speaking in public, lack of any ability for business and government,
                    extreme poverty, and lack of clothing. It is no wonder that some of his best friends advised against
                    his appointment on the ground of his eccentricities. Notwithstanding all this, however, he was a
                    most efficient as well as a most saintly bishop. Though he was one of the foremost scholars in
                    America and would have preferred to study and teach theology and history, he journeyed incessantly
                    throughout his diocese under conditions which made travel a real hardship and directed most ably the
                    difficult affairs in his charge. He commanded the respect and admiration of Protestants and
                    non-church members, as well as the veneration of those of his own faith. The summary of the growth
                    of churches and church buildings which developed during his episcopacy (pp. 413-17) is ample
                    testimony to Bishop Brute's work as well as to the development of the region which called
                    for the creation of a new diocese.
            Sister Mary Salesia does not undertake to give a history of the times. Wherever she touches upon
                    historical movements, the comments are those of one who looks at them entirely from the churchly
                    point of view. The French Revolution, for instance, is anathema, root and branch. Little attention,
                    therefore, is paid to general developments in the 
                        United States
                     or even in the Middle West. It is for matters relating to the Catholic Church in
                    America, and especially in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , that one turns to this biography of Bishop Brute. In such matters one is seldom
                    disappointed in not finding what he wants. To cite one instance: the most authoritative and
                    satisfactory account the reviewer has found of the building of the beautiful little cathedral, now
                    the church of St. Francis Xavier in 
                        Vincennes
                    , is given by Sister Mary Salesia. The corner stone was laid by Father Champomier on
                    March 30, 1826. It was built upon the model of the cathedral at 
                        Bardstown
                     according to the account in the 
                  
                            United States
                         Catholic Miscellany, IX (1829) p. 70, quoted by Sister Mary Salesia, pp.
                    185-87. The interior and the steeple, however, were being finished in 1838 and were not entirely
                    cmpleted when Bishop Bruté died. Similarly the various churches and priests in the
                    diocese of 
                        Vincennes
                     are listed in detail upon the basis of contemporary and usually first-hand sources.
            
            For her exhaustive work the author has drawn upon all known collections of documents and printed
                    material relating to Bishop Bruté. Many of the Bishop's papers have been
                    scattered and lost, but the author has found enough to give a framework entirely satisfactory to a
                    critical historian. The principal collections used are those of Archdiocesan Archives, Rennes, 
                        France
                    ; Brothers of Christian Instruction Archives, Ploermel, 
                        France
                    ; Archives of St. Sulpice, 
                        Paris
                    ; Bruté de RBmur, Rennes, 
                        France
                     Musaeum Bollandianum, Brussels, 
                        Belgium
                    ; Archdiocesan Archives, Quebec; 
                        Baltimore
                     Cathedral Archives, 
                        Baltimore
                    , Md.; Catholic Archives of America, Notre Dame, Ind.; Central Bureau of Central Verein, 
                        St. Louis
                    , Mo.; 
                        Georgetown
                     University Archives, 
                        Washington
                    , D.C.; Files of the Indian Office, 
                        Washington
                    , D.C.; St. Francis Xavier Cathedral Archives, 
                  Vincennes; St. Louis
                Chancery
                    Archives, 
                        St. Louis
                    , Mo.
            A very full bibliography of printed material is given and the pages of the narrative testify to the
                    good use made of nearly every item. Comparatively few misprints have been noted. none of importance,
                    though John Law is given an extra initial (p. xxxix).
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society Publications Number 2, Volume X, is a printing of Dr.
                    Evarts B. Green's stimulating though brief address which he delivered before the Twelfth
                    Indiana History Conference on December 12, 1930. The subject chosen by Dr. Green for that occasion,
                    the centenial of the Indiana Historical Society, was "Our Pioneer Historical
                    Societies". Tracing briefly the origin of the Indiana Society, Dr. Green concluded that the
                    story of this organization "forms a natural part of a larger history of the whole
                    historical society movement in the 
                        United States
                    ". The general movement originated with the generation that won independence,
                    formed the first state governments and established the new federal Constitution. Citing important
                    facts in regard to the origin and history of certain eastern historical societies, Dr. Green
                    characterized the nature and work of different societies, east and west. In regard to the future,
                    the concluding passage of the address may be quoted. In this the speaker said: "University
                    departments and research institutions, privately  endowed
                    societies and state departments under various forms—all have their part to play; but as
                    far as we can see, societies like your own will always be needed. So I close with my best wishes for
                    the second century of the Indiana Historical Society. If I were an old-fashioned orator of the days
                    when men still ventured to quote Latin, I should say 'Vivat, f lor eat,
                        crescat,' long may the society live, and flower, and increase! As it is, I am
                    tempted to end with the homlier words, endeared to us by Joseph Jefferson in Rip 
                            Van
                         Winkle—'Here's to your good health, and your
                    family's, and may you live long and prosper'!"
            
               The Political Career of Jesse D. Bright by Charles B. Murphy of Purdue University
                    constitutes Number 3 of Volume X, Indiana Historical Society Publications. This
                    pamphlet of forty-five pages is an attempt to set forth the salient facts in the public life of a
                    powerful Democratic leader of Indiana. The author experienced difficulty in finding adequate
                    contemporary matter pertaining to Senator Bright. He has tried to be very fair to the subject of his
                    sketch but has been at times, possibly, unduly severe in his condemnation of the foes of Bright,
                    such as Lyman Trumbull, Charles Sumner, and Lot M. Morrill of 
                        Maine
                    .
            Indiana History Bulletin Number 7, Volume VIII, presents the Proceedings of the
                    Twelfth Indiana History Conference (
                        Indianapolis
                    , December 11-13, 1930). Several of the papers read at this Conference have either
                    appeared or will appear in the Indiana Magazine of History. The contents of the
                        Bulletin include: an address by Ross F. Lockridge, "Our State and
                    Country" (pp. 239-260); a paper on, "A Hoosier Hostelry a Hundred Years
                    Ago," by Kenneth Loucks (pp. 308-315); a sketch, "Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , The Indiana Blackstone," by W. W. Thornton (pp. 316-327); a discussion,
                    "Some methods and Objectives for the General College Course in American History,"
                    by Andrew W. Crandall (pp. 345-357); a new appraisal of Oliver P. Morton by William Dudley Foulke,
                    "Our Great War Governor" (pp. 374-386). The Bulletin also
                    contains shorter papers by Genevieve Hopkins, R. B. Yule, Louis J. Bailey and several others. In
                    addition, the annual reports of the Treasurer and Secretary of the Indiana Historical Society are
                    published in full.
            
            
               
                        Louisiana
                     State University has inaugurated a series of publications to be known as University Studies. The first volume in the series was issued a few weeks ago by the 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press. This well-printed volume is a carefully prepared monograph, The Community Property Sys-tey of 
                            Louisiana
                        
               , by Professor Harriet Spiller Daggett with a foreword by Dean Robert Lee
                    Tullis. The purpose of Professor Daggett has been, as stated by the editor of the series, Dr.
                    Charles W. Pipkin, "to unify the concept of the community property system and present it as
                    a guide in the problems of the property law for husband and wife and also as an ideal of a set of
                    principles well suited and easily adapted to the needs of the modern spouses". The
                    University of 
                        Louisiana
                     is to be congratulated for taking up a policy of publication and upon the high quality
                    of the initial number in the proposed series of Unzversity Studies.
            
            
               
                  
                            Iowa
                         to 
                            Iowa
                        
                is the title of an unusually handsome volume recently published by the State
                    Historical Society of 
                        Iowa
                    . The book is clothed with a beautiful binding and the printing is artistic and
                    pleasing. The sub-title is "The Genesis of a Corn and Bible Commonwealth". The
                    author is Irving Berdine Richman. The yolume was evidently conceived, written and gotten up in an
                    attractive manner in order to make the history of 
                        Iowa
                     interesting to a much larger number of readers. It is to be hoped that the experiment
                    will prove a success. One hesitates to question the merits of a book, The outside and the inside of
                    which, as well as title and sub-title, promise so much. Nevertheless, the narrative is hard to
                    follow and the Chapters are not marked by a rich and nourishing content.
            Rabbi 
                        Israel
                     Goldstein has written a book of four hundred sixty pages which he calls A
                        Century of Judaism in 
                            New York
                        . The work is published under the auspices of the Congregation B'Nai
                    Jeshurun, said to be 
                        New York
                    's second oldest Jewish Congregation. The volume is really a history of the
                    origin and the growth of the B'nai Jeshurun Congregation, written by the present Rabbi.
                    Having access to the Congregational records which were supplimented by Jewish periodicals, the
                    author had an opportunity to produce an accurate and scholarly 
                    work. Copies of the volume may be obtained from the Bloch Publishing Company, 31 W. 31 Street, 
                        New York
                     at $4.00 each.
            
               The Early History of the Republican Party, a monograph of three hundred pages, by
                    Andrew Wallace Crandall of De-Pauw University was published by Richard G. Badger (
                        Boston
                    ) late in 1930. The study carries the development of the new party only to the end of
                    the presidential campaign of 1856. The author has done a large amount of research on a limited
                    period. The study was prepared as a doctoral dissertation at the University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . The monograph is an informing one and the extensive bibliography is valuable. Our
                    readers will find a helpful review of Professor Crandall's book by Dr. James A. Woodburn in
                    the June number of the 
                  Mississippi valley Historical
                Review.
            
         
         
         
            Comment and News
            In many respects to be an editor, even of a state historical magazine which is issued quarterly, is
                    interesting. This is not due to tha fact that the readers write frequent letters praising or blaming
                    the editor, for such is not the case. Very seldom does any subscriber of the Indiana
                        Magazine of History write anything to the editor in the way of comment, favorable or
                    unfavorable, on the content of any issue. There is little evidence that the Magazine is read by more than a dozen citizens of Indiana, other than the fact that about
                    eleven hundred pay the annual dues to the Indiana Historical Society. Nevertheless, it means
                    something to edit the quarterly. During every week in the year, there is always editorial work to be
                    done whenever it is possible to extricate oneself from other duties. Best of all, since issues are
                    due in March, June, September and December, these months follow each other in rapid succession,
                    while all other months are crowded from the calendar. If anyone desires to know what it means to
                    have the side-show become the main circus, let him undertake to edit a quarterly magazine as a
                    collateral activity.
            The letters of Dr. E. W. H. Beck which are published in this number contain many interesting facts
                    and opinions. The point of view of a surgeon was somewhat different from that of other men in the
                    service, whether privates or officers. The letters written in the period between the battles of
                    Manassas and 
                        Antietam
                     and during the days immediately following the latter battle are especially worth
                    reading. The letters written during the Wilderness Campaign in 1864, describing the raid into the 
                        Virginia
                     country far to the southeast of the area where Grant was hammering Lee's army,
                    are unusually impressive. This raid was to create a diversion in Lee's rear, and was to the
                    Hoosier surgeon who reported it to his wife, a cruel, destructive and sickening type of warfare.
            It has often occurred to the editor that the many persons interested in varying phases of Indiana
                    history could become more helpful to each other. Frequently they could exchange  knowledge of events and characters of history, or better, render mutual
                    service in regard to the whereabouts of source material. The Indiana State Library, the Indiana
                    Historical Bureau and the Indiana University Library are always ready to act as clearing houses in
                    such instances. Readers of the Indiana Magazine of History may also feel free to
                    send inquiries to the editor. Though there is no desire to establish a regular question and answer
                    department, queries will be inserted, whenever those who desire information see fit to present them,
                    in the hope that reliable answers may be obtained.
            For some time the editor has had a great desire to learn the names of the father and mother of Edward
                    Allen Hanegan who was 
                        United States
                     Senator from Indiana from 1843 to 1849. It seems that the birthplace of this brilliant
                    but unfortunate man was in 
                  Hamilton county, Ohio
               . To the present, it has not been possible
                    to learn the names of his parents either from those who have studied his career or from living
                    descendants. It is hoped that some one who may chance to see this note will be able to supply the
                    missing data.
            J. Harley Nichols who contributed the article on "Kin Hubbard" which appeared in
                    our March issue has been assistant professor of history at the Ball Teachers College, 
                        Muncie
                    , for several years. Dr. James A. Woodburn of 
                        Ann Arbor
                    , professor emeritus of American history at Indiana University whose address,
                    "Indiana and Her History", was also printed in the March number, was for many
                    years President of the Indiana Historical Society. He was made President Emeritus of that
                    organization in December, 1930. Mr. Linneus N. Hines, another contributor, is President of the
                    Indiana State Teachers College. In this position he is one of the ex-officio members of the State
                    Board of Education, of which he was also an ex-officio member when State Superintendent of Public
                    Instruction. Mrs. Rose Shultheis is an active member of D.A.R., 
                        Vincennes
                    , which chapter is responsible for the rescue of the Harrison House and its careful
                    preservation in recent years. Miss Annie Lee Samuel, who compiled the data relative to the Graham,
                    Froman and Harrison families is a genealogist who lives at 
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               . Dr.
                    Christopher B. Coleman, Secretary of the Indiana Historical 
                    Society and head of the Indiana Historical Bureau, conducts a department devoted to the Historical
                    Society in each issue of the Magazine. Those who contributed reviews to the March
                    issue were: Dr. John Donald Barnhart, associate professor of history, West 
                        Virginia
                     University; Dr. Fred E. Brengle, assistant professor of history, Indiana State Teachers
                    College; Prof. Fred J. Breese, formerly professor of Geography at the Ball Teachers College, now on
                    the staff of the North Side High School, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , and lecturer in Geography, Indiana University Extension Division; Mr. Otto M.
                    Knoblock, a business man of 
                        South Bend
                    , long a special student of La Salle and New 
                        France
                    ; Mr. Powell Moore, formerly an instructor in histbry at Bethel College,
                            
                  Russellville, Kentucky
               , and now a tutor in history at Indiana University.
            Contributors to this, the June number of our Magazine, include: Mr. Hilton U.
                    Brown, chairman of the Board of Directors of the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         News; Prof. Frank Smith Bogardus, late Dean of Indiana State Teachers College;
                    Rev. Louis A. Warren, Lincoln historian, Lincoln National Life Insurance Company, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    ; Mrs. Grace Julian Clarke, writer for various newspapers, frequent contributor to this
                        Magazine, and daughter of George W. Julian; Miss Julia LeClerc 
                        Knox
                    , formerly of 
                        Vevay
                    , now head of the Latin department in Craw-fordsville high school. Dr. Elbert A.
                    Kincaid, professor of Economics at the University of 
                        Virginia
                    , writes a review for this issue. Other reviews are contributed by Dr. Christopher B.
                    Coleman and the editor.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author.
         
         
            Wanted
            We are sure that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired magazines or other
                    publications, will confer a great favored by writing to the Indiana Magazine of
                        History.
            
            
               The Indianian. This magazine was published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 1896 to 1904 or 1906, six volumes in all. Wanted, a complete file. Partial sets
                    will be considered.
            
               Indiana, Past and Present. This little, temporary periodical was published during
                    1914. Wanted, a complete file, and also an extra copy of Number 1.
            
               The Open Road. Wanted copies of this monthly for: March, April, May, June, July,
                    August, September, and November, 1910; March, July, August, and September, 1911; April and May,
                    1912; July, 1913; January, 1914.
            
               Bulletins of the Indiana Historical Commission. Numbers 16 and 18. These contain
                    the Proceedings of the Southwestern Indiana Historical Society for 1922 and 1923.
            
               Commencement Programs of Indiana University. Wanted to complete the file of the
                    University Library the following, but duplicates of those listed and of any programs prior to  1900 will be received and valued: programs of 1st to 12th
                    commencements, 1828-1839; 23rd and 24th) 1852-1853; 30th, 1859; 34th) 1863; 37th) 1866; 41st, 1870.
            
               Indiana School Journal. Wanted vol. 37, numbers, 7-8 (1892); vol. 38, numbers 6, 9,
                    10, 11, 12 (1893); vol. 40, numbers 4, 9, 10, 11 (1895). Surely some veteran educator can furnish
                    the missing numbers of this Journal, which are much desired.
            National Educational Association, Proceedings. Wanted for 1860, 1864, 1872, 1884,
                    and 1885.
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have had a generous response to our appeals for
                    back numbers, especially for those dated later than 1914. We have a serious need for copies of
                    issues from 1905 to 1913. We very much desire to locate the four numbers of volume IV (1908); number
                    one of volume VI (1910); the four numbers of volume VII (1911); the four numbers of vol. VIII
                    (1912). We will buy further copies of the following issues: Dec., 1921; Mar., 1922; double-number
                    June-Sept., 1925.
            Full sets of the Magazine can not be supplied to libraries or individuals who may
                    desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at fifty-cents a copy or two
                    dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four dollars
                    per volume; single copies from 1905-1913, when they can be supplied at all, must be priced at a much
                    higher figure.
            Dr. George S. Gottman, the first editor of the Indiana Magazine of History, who now
                    resides at 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, R.R. 5, has a complete file of the Magazine which he is
                    willing to sell. All numbers prior to 1913 are very scarce. The opportunity to purchase an unbroken
                    file from the beginning is unusual. The Business Manager knows of no other complete file which is
                    for sale. Anyone desiring to purchase should write directly to Mr. Cottman.
         
      
      
         
      
   
