
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 036, Issue 3, pages 85-324. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:036+issue:3+year:1940&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Democratic Element in the New Republican Party in Indiana
            MILDRED C. STOLER
            A study of the influence in the Republican Party of the insurgent Democrats who joined the new party
                    in the eighteen-fifties is of much interest. In 1856, the Republican presidential candidate had
                    formerly been a Democrat, while in 1860, it was the vice-presidential nominee who had once been a
                    member of the Democratic party. In 1856, Republican newspapers pointed with pride to new recruits
                    from the ranks of their opponents. The issues that caused Democrats to leave their party were the
                    Administration policy on slavery and on internal improvements, opposition to the decision of the
                    party on such local issues as the legal prohibition of intoxicating liquor, and various other
                    special questions. Of these, the first named had the greatest potency. The 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act of 1854 repealed the anti-slavery provision of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise of 1820, and thus repudiated the principle that Congress had constitutional
                    authority for prohibiting slavery in the territories. It endorsed instead the principle that the
                    slavery question should be settled by the people of the territory "subject only to the
                    Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    ." Those Democrats who opposed this Act united in 1854 with other groups of
                    Indiana who were opposed to the Democratic party to form the People's Party, forerunner of
                    the Republican Party in Indiana.1
            
            During the next two years constant efforts were made in Indiana, as elsewhere, to construct from the
                    heterogeneous 
                  
                     1 For a detailed account of the anti-
                                Nebraska
                             revolt of 1854 in Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                            , see "Insurgent Democrats of Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                             in 1854." Indiana Magazine of History (March, 1937),
                            XXXIII, 1-81. Both this article and the present article. are slightly modified parts of the
                            author's doctoral dissertion (filed in Indiana University Library). "The
                            influence of the Democratic Element in the Republican Party of 
                                Illinois
                             and Indiana, 1864-1860.
               
                     elements of the new Party a permanent organization. Whigs, who
                    furnished the mass of voters, Free Soilers, temperance Democrats, anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats, and Know Nothings were united in their opposition to the Democratic party
                    but in little else. The problem was to hold them together.
            In the work of organizing the new party in Indiana, anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats played a conspicuous part. After the election, Chapman's Chanticleer, edited by Jacob P. Chapman, veteran Democratic editor,
                    politician, and anti-slavery man, pointed out the necessity of a strong party organization,2 and, when the party held its victory jubilee, he and other former Democrats
                    sought to take the first steps in that direction, but without success.3
            
            Further steps towards organization were taken in the summer of 1855. Although the initiative came
                    from the Whig element this time, the anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats supported the meeting and again occupied strategic positions.4 Charles H. Test presided and among the vice presidents were Lucian Barbour and Henry L.
                        Ellsworth.5 Michael C. Garber, editor of the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier and chairman of the state central committee, was one of the secretaries
                    and Reuben A. Riley was on the resolutions committee. 
                        United States
                     Representative Daniel Mace and Oliver P. Morton gave addresses. Moreover, James Blake,
                    who had gained experience in directing a campaign as a member of the Democratic state central
                    committee in 1843, was made chairman of the new state committee.6 Two other
                    former Democrats were also placed on the committee. This shower of favors on a minority element in
                    the People's Party indicates the eagerness of 
                  
                     2 Oct. 19, 1864. Chapman was editor of the Democratic organ, the Indiana State Sentinel from 1841 to 1850.
                  
                     3
                            'Indiana State Journal (weekly), Nov. 4, 1854. Chairman's Chanticleer called the meeting. The chairman, Thomas Smith,
                            was a Democrat of long standing having served as state representative and senator and three
                            terms as 
                                United States
                             representative. He was considered one of the best campaigners in the state. Biographical Directory of American Congress (
                                Washington
                            , 1928). 1842. Oliver P. Morton and Reuben A. Riley made speeches. Morton had
                            been a rising young Democrat. His name was mentioned for the party's next candidate
                            for Congress before he left the party in 1864. William Dudley Foulke, Life of
                                Oliver P. Morton (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899), I. 36.
                  
                     4
                            'Evening Courier (
                                Madison
                            ), July 14, 1855; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily), July 14, 1855.
                  
                     5 'Test was elected as a Whig in 1889 as secretary of the
                            state senate, but, in 1843, be was defeated as a Democratic Candidate for Congress. In 1848,
                            he was a delegate to the Democratic state convention and later in the same year was elected
                            secretary of state by a union of Whig and Independent Democratic votes in the legislature.
                                Indiana Journal, Nov. 23, Dec. 7, 1839. Indiana State
                                Sentinel (daily). Sept. 2. 1854: "Letters of Martin L. Bundy.
                            1848-49," contributed by Clarence H. Smith, Indiana Magazine of
                                History, XXII, 87. Ellsworth was a wealthy landowner and had been commissioner of
                            patents for many years. Evening Courier (
                                Madison
                            ), Jan. 4, 1859. Barbour had been federal district attorney.
                  
                     6
                            Indiana State Sentinel (weekly), April 11, 1843.
               
                     the Whig element to hold them in the new party. The Whigs
                    recognized the ability of former opponents as organizers and speakers and realized also that they
                    might attract still other Democrats to join them. Further, the Whigs in the People's Party
                    well knew that votes of insurgent Democrats had given them just the margin that meant victory in
                    1854 and might bring success again in 1856.
            On May 1, 1856, the People's Party again held a convention at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , this time in response to the summons of the state central committee. Once more the
                    party called upon orators from the Democratic element to sound the key-note of the campaign. Morton,
                    Thomas Smith, E. W. H. Ellis and William Grose made addresses.7 The convention
                    also heard speakers from the Whig and Know Nothing elements of the party. Of the convention
                    appointments, however, the Democratic element received a smaller share than had been accorded them
                    two years earlier. In 1854, they received 25 of the 43 offices (or more than half) while the Whigs
                    received only 17 and the Free Soilers 1. Two years later, the Democratic insurgents were given only
                    12 appointments out of 72 (one-sixth) whereas the Whigs received at least 43 (or more than half) and
                    Free Soilers 2.8 H. L. Ellsworth served as temporary chairman, but a former Whig
                    had the honor of acting as permanent chairman. One insurgent Democrat served on the committee on
                    permanent organization and three were vice-presidents. Two others were contingent presidential
                    electors and still another two were the final choices as electors. Of far more significance,
                    perhaps, was the fact that only two of the sixteen members of the state central committee were taken
                    from the Democratic element. Although Blake was placed on the committee, he was not chairman. That
                    post went to a former Whig, John D. Defrees.9 Evidently the Whig element
                    intended to have their turn in the 
                  
                     7
                            Evening Courier (daily). May 3, 1856. Ellis had been an active Democrat
                            for twenty years and editor of the 
                                Goshen
                            
                            Democrat. He had been county and state auditor. John B. Stoll. History of the Indiana Democracy. 1816-1916 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1917), 106, 119-120. William Grose had been a Pierce elector and an
                            unsuccessful Democratic candidate for Congress in 1852. Democratic Pharos (
                                Logansport
                            ). June 9, 1852: Whip Almanac, 1858.
                  
                     8 These numbers varied from time to time. In 1854 there were nine and
                            in 1856 fifteen whose former political affiliations have not been learned. Nevertheless. the
                            above conclusion would not be charged.
                  
                     9 Ellsworth, George P. Buell of 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            , and James Richey were vice-presidents; E. W. H. Ellis was on the permanent
                            organization committee, E. B. Collins and R. A. Riley were among the contingent presidential
                            electors, John A. Hendricks and Caleb V. Jones were on the final list of electors, and
                            Ritchey was the other former Democrat placed on the state committee. Evening
                                Courier (
                                Madison
                            ). May 3, 6, 1858; 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger (daily), Oct. 80, 1856.
               
                     organization work as well as in the convention. Garber, having
                    been state chairman in 1854, realized the absolute necessity of a complete and efficient
                    organization. The party had then won a victory under his leadership, but Blake took his place the
                    next year. Blake was a former Democrat but the total number of that element on the committee was
                    reduced from eight to three. Moreover, in 1856, only two of the Democratic element worked on the
                    committee and the chairman was a Whig. Obviously the Whig element was. asserting itself.
            However, the Democratic wing of the party was permitted to have three of the nine nominees for state
                    offices, including the most important. The key position, that of candidate for governor, went to
                    Oliver P. Morton. W. R. Nofsinger was renominated for treasurer and E. W. H. Ellis was named for
                    auditor. Thus the importance of elevating their Democratic friends to posts of leadership was still
                    recognized by the Whig element although the Whigs were claiming the share of party honors due them
                    because they contributed the largest number of voters. The Democratic Party was still very strong in
                    the state and it was reclaiming some of the insurgents of 1854 by its policy of conciliation towards
                    all save the leaders who had bolted the decision of the majority.10 In view of
                    this trend, the People's Party felt it necessary to keep open the schism in the Democratic
                    Party. One method of doing this was to place Democratic insurgents on the ticket. Morton had been
                    popular enough among Democrats in his district to be suggested for the congressional nomination in
                    1854 and had gained a high reputation as a campaign orator in that year. Nofsinger had been elected
                    two years before, and Ellis, state auditor from 1850 to 1852, was a Democratic editor of long
                    experience. These nominations greatly strengthened the ticket, and it was hoped that they would
                    influence still other Democrats to join the party.
            Three of the candidates for Congress were also men of Democratic antecedents. Will Cumback in the
                    fourth and John U. Petit in the eleventh district were renominated, and John A. Hendricks became the
                    candidate in the third district. In the sixth district, Reuben A. Riley was the favorite of 
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., quoted in Indiana State Journal (weekly). Jan. 4,
                            1855: L. A. Smith to William H. English. 
                                Cannelton
                            . Ind., Sept. 7. 1855, English Collection, William Henry Smith Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     many delegates, but a former Whig received the nomination.11
            
            Members of the Democratic element were active in the campaign. Morton carried on his campaign for
                    governor from Lake 
                        Michigan
                     to the 
                        Ohio
                     and was aided by many able speakers. George Schneider and William Bross, anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democratic editors from 
                        Illinois
                    , spoke before audiences in northern Indiana while E. W. H. Ellis did effective service
                    with his campaign paper, We The People, which possibly reached seven thousand
                    subscribers every week.12
            
            Only in the congressional election was the party successful. Both the national and state tickets were
                    defeated in Indiana. Of the five successful candidates for Congress only one--John U. Pettit--was
                    from the Democratic element. However, in four of the districts it was the support of former
                    Democratic voters that elected the People's Party candidates. This can be demonstrated by
                    the calculation of the approximate decrease in the strength of the Democratic vote of 1856 based on
                    estimates derived from the results in 1852. Pettit's district (eleventh) may be taken as an
                    example. The district's total vote increased by 7292 during the four years between
                    elections. Normally the vote of each party might be expected to increase in proportion to the
                    percentage of the total vote which was its share in 1852. In 1852 the Democrats polled 54% of the
                    total vote. If they had received 54% of all the votes cast in 1856, they would have had a total vote
                    of 11,716. Actually they received only 10,443 or an estimated loss of 1273 votes. When the last
                    number is subtracted from Pettit's vote presuming that 1273 Democrats or persons voting
                    that ticket in 1852 voted for Pettit in 1856), it is found that he would have had only 9962 votes or
                    less than 10,443 votes actually cast for his opponent. Thus without the 1273 votes which the
                    Democrats might normally have expected to be theirs, Pettit could not have won the election. A
                    similar calculation shows that James Wilson in the eighth, Colfax in the ninth, and Samuel A.
                    Brenton in the tenth were victorious only because of the assistance of their Democratic allies.
            Other evidence corroborates these conclusions. Colfax acknowledged the support of several hundred
                    Democrats, and 
                  
                     11
                            Indiana State Journal (weekly). July 3. 1856: 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal (daily), July 8, 28. 1856.
                  
                     12 E. W. H. Ellis, "Autobiography of a Noted
                            Pioneer." Indiana Mayasi of History, X. 69: 
                                Elkhart
                            
                            Times quoted in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily), Feb. 8, 1858.
               
                     the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Journal, a Republican paper of Whig antecedents, said that Wilson owed his victory
                    to the "steady devotion of the Germans to freedom." In 
                        Marion
                     County, also, the Germans were given credit for the victory of the People's
                        Party.13
            
            In spite of defeat in the national and state elections in Indiana, the party was not greatly
                    depressed. Its leaders turned almost immediately to the task of remedying weaknesses which were all
                    too evident and to preparations for 1860. As Colfax so happily phrased it, they "resolved
                    to turn a canvass into a campaign."14
            
            Lack of a thorough organization was one of the serious weaknesses in 1856. Garber, E. W. H. Ellis,
                    and others urged that an organization reaching down into the townships be worked out at once and
                    that Republican clubs be encouraged to continue their meetings. They warned the party that it would
                    be fatal to delay until just before the next election.15
            
            As the first step, Garber suggested that the Republican editors organize a state central committee
                    and determine a course of action.16 This was done at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on January 6-7, 1857, when W. R. Ellis of the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Courier, his brother, E. W. H. Ellis of We, The People,
                    Hielscher of the Freie Presse, Garber of the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier, and a goodly number of editors of Whig antecedents met and formed the
                    Indiana Republican Editorial Association. Garber presided and was chosen one of two vice-presidents
                    for the next year. The first president was also a former Democrat—E. W. H.
                    Ellis—and Hielscher was made treasurer. Former Whigs controlled the executive
                        committee.17
            
            On the second day of the editorial meeting, a Republican state convention met. Former Democrats were
                    much in evidence and took a prominent part in the proceedings but no changes were made in the
                    personnel of the state committee.18 The party again met in October of 1857 to
                    nominate candidates for judges of the state supreme court. Again the Democratic element had a large
                    share in the work of the convention 
                  
                     13 Ovando J. Hollister, Life of Schuyler Colfax (
                                New York
                            , 1887), 134; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal quoted to Evening Courier (
                                Madison
                            , daily), Oct. 24, 1858; Indiana State
                            Journal (weekly), Oct. 23, 1856.
                  
                     14 Hollister, op. cit., 106-107.
                  
                     15
                            We The People, Dec. 5, 1856; Evening Courier (
                                Madison
                            ), Nov. 7. 8, 1856; Indiana State Journal (weekly), Nov. 27,
                            Dec. 4. 1856.
                  
                     16
                            Evening Courier (
                                Madison
                            ), Nov. 15, 25, 1856.
                  
                     17
                            Indiana State Journal (weekly), Jan. 8, 15. 1857.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., Jan. 15, 1857.
               
                     having three of the committee of seven on nominations and four
                    of a committee of nine on resolutions besides the president and secretary of the meeting.19
            
            The third convention to be held within fifteen months assembled on March 4, 1858. In some respects,
                    the Democratic element did not receive as great recognition as it had previously enjoyed. They not
                    only had a smaller percentage of the committee members20 but they received a
                    lesser share of the nominees for state offices. Apparently, the Whig element was trying to enforce a
                    rotation of honors and felt that it was their turn to have the greater number of offices on the
                    ticket as well as in the convention. In 1854, they had placed only two nominees on the state ticket
                    whereas the Democratic element was given three and they were the more important offices. In 1856,
                    when there were nine state offices to be filled, the Democratic wing received three. In 1858, the
                    ratio of 1854 was actually reversed. Three former Whigs were nominated while only two former
                    Democrats received places on the ticket.21 Obviously, the Democratic insurgents
                    were being relegated to a position in the party more in keeping with their numbers.
            Likewise in the selection of candidates for seats in Congress, the percentage granted to the
                    Democratic element declined. Whereas in 1854, there were four former Democrats among the eleven
                    candidates, in 1856, there were only three. In 1858, the percentage rose slightly but only because
                    the Republicans had but nine candidates of whom three had once been Democrats. And yet they did
                    receive some appointments which gave them considerable influence. Garber became chairman of the
                    state central committee again, thus being given the opportunity to demonstrate his ability to 
                  
                     19
                            Evening Courier (
                                Madison
                            ). Oct. 7, 1857.
                  
                     20 The composition of the committees was as follows:
                        Plan for voting 6 unidentified; 2 Dem.; 2 Whigs; 1 Free Soiler
                        Permanent organization 8 unidentified; 0 Dem.; 3 Whigs
                        Nominations 19 unidentified; 3 Den,: 7 Whigs
                        Resolutions 6 unidentified; 2 Dem.; 12 Whigs; 1 Free Soiler; 1 Rep.
                        Naming central committee 6 unidentified; 2 Dem.; 8 Whigs
                        State central committee 11 unidentified; 3 Dem.; 17 Whigs; 1 Free Soiler; 2
                                Rep.
                      It is not probable that very many of the unidentified were former Democrats, so it
                            is apparent that the Whigs had a large percentage of the committee members. For an account
                            of this convention, see 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily), March 5, 1858.
                  
                     21 Albert Lange, a German from 
                                Terre Haute
                            , was nominee for auditor and John Young, President of Northwestern Christian
                            University at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , was nominated for superintendent of public instruction. Both had been
                            Democrats until 1866. Charles C. Oakey, Greater 
                                    Terre Haute
                                 and 
                                    Vigo County
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1908), I, 144; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily), April 5, 1868; John Young to Stephen A. Douglas, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , April —. 1858. Douglas Collection. University of 
                                Chicago
                            .
               
                     succeed where the Whig chairman had failed.22 Garber had been chairman in 1854 when the fusionists were victorious, but then he had the
                    assistance of eight other anti-
                        Nebraska
                     men whereas in 1858 only two others were placed on the committee with him.23
            
            Very important also was the appointment of Oliver P. Morton as both temporary and permanent chairman
                    of the convention. In his address upon taking the chair, he gave the keynote of the ensuing
                    campaign, a theme which had already dominated Republican thinking for two years, namely the alleged
                    aggressions of the slaveholders. To the complaints made against the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act in 1854 and the activities of the "border-ruffians" in 1856, he
                    added the Dred Scott decision and Buchanan's statement that slavery existed in Kansas by
                    virtue of the Constitution.24 He characterized the Supreme Court as sectional
                    and a "tool" of the slave power and demanded that it be reorganized in order to
                    allow the North the number of judges truly representative of its population.
            A second problem confronting party leaders was that of securing votes normally given to other
                    tickets. Thus far the party had been greatly concerned with this question. This was a necessity
                    since victory was attainable only by the union of all the elements of opposition to the Democracy
                    together with accessions from that party as well. After the election of 1858, Garber and Theodore
                    Hielscher believed that the party should confine itself to purely Republican principles and cease to
                    be a fusion party. They felt that the attempt to get the American or Know Nothing vote had weakened
                    rather than strengthened them in the recent election.25 Nevertheless, when the
                    Democratic Party again lost some members in 1858 (this time over the question of whether or not the
                    Lecompton Constitution submitted to Congress by the pro-slav- 
                  
                     22 Garber wrote in the Evening Courier (
                                Madison
                            ), Nov. 6, 1856. "The gentlemen who engineered the Republican party in
                            Indiana are clever, estimable men. every one of them; but as political leaders they are
                            imbeciles… They have been outgeneraled in every particular… Southern
                            Indiana was indubitably the Republican missionary field… [yet it] was given up to
                            the combined enemy without a struggle… You see what has been done with the
                            present leaders; it could not have been worse done without leaders. If more fortunate men
                            cannot be found In the Republican ranks. better to be without leaders or hire some from the
                            Republicans of some of the other States."
                  
                     23 The two former Democrats were William Mitchell. founder of
                            Kendallville and state representative in 1841 (Samuel E. Alvord, Alvord's History of Noble County, Indiana (
                                Logansport
                            , Ind., 1902), 154-155; Indiana State Sentinel (weekly). Aug.
                            24. 1841) and Thomas H. Nelson. state representative 1850-51, Indiana State
                                Journal (tri-weekly). Aug. 16, 1850.
                  
                     24 Message to Congress on the Lecompton Constitution, Feb. 2. 1858.
                  
                     25
                            Evening Courier (
                                    Madison
                                ), Dec. 20, Nov. 7, Oct. 18. 1856; Jan. 20, 1858.
               
                     ery faction in Kansas was a fair application of the popular
                    sovereignty doctrine), the Republicans were eager to take advantage of it. Regardless of former
                    party affiliation, Republicans agreed that they could not afford to ignore such a good opportunity
                    to win in 1858.28 Indeed, Garber did go so far as to suggest at the beginning of
                    the anti-Lecompton movement that the best way to make 
                        Kansas
                     free was to join the seceding Democrats. Later, however, he returned to his earlier
                    position that the Republicans might accept their support without making an alliance with them.
                    Finally, he decided that the anti-Lecompton men should join the Re-publican party. He wrote:
            
                    The Republican party is a planet, not a satellite. It has its own orbit, revolves around the
                        Constitution of the 
                            United States
                        , attracting to and incorporating with it smaller political bodies, and it is bound
                        to be the great political party of the country.27
               
                
            The desire to attract these "smaller political bodies" to the Republican party was
                    uppermost in the thinking of the Republicans as they drew up their platform in 1858. Although the
                    resolutions denied boldly the validity of the Supreme Court interpretation in the Dred Scott case
                    and declared that Congress did have constitutional power to prohibit slavery in the territories (the
                    Republican position since 1854), they actually promised nothing more than to use "proper
                    and constitutional means" to prevent slavery extension. Unless the Supreme Court reversed
                    the Dred Scott decision, which was not probable, even a Republican controlled Congress could not
                    prohibit slavery in the territories. So the position taken by the party was bold in words but would
                    be mild in execution. In fact, the party had not departed from the restrained phraseology of the
                    state platform of 1856.
            A group of radical antislavery men led by George W. Julian, former Free Soiler, together with
                    Hielscher and Will C. Moreau, former Democrats, demanded that the 
                        Philadelphia
                     platform be re-affirmed. That platform asserted that Congress not only had the power to
                    prohibit slavery in all the territories but was obligated under the due process clause of the
                    Constitution to do so. The majority of the convention 
                  
                     26
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily). March 5, 1853; "Memorandum of Interview.
                            Burlingame & Colfax with Douglas, at his residence, Dec. 14, 1857,"
                            Schuyler Colfax Collection. MS., Indiana State Library. 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; letter of Colfax. Quoted by Hollister, Colfax, 121.
                  
                     27
                            Evening Courier (
                                Madison
                            ), Nov. 28, 1857, Jan. 6, 21, March 6. 1858.
               
                     considered not only their own sentiments, which were more
                    conservative than Julian's, but also the effect of such a resolution as he advocated upon
                    the anti-Lecompton Democrats whose support they desired to win. In order to obtain their aid, many
                    Republicans preferred to emphasize the denunciation of the action of the LeCompton Convention as a
                    violation of the popular sovereignty principle, rather than to talk so much of the power of Congress
                    to prohibit slavery extension. A crisis developed when Moreau. moved to amend the resolutions by
                    striking out the one declaring that no state should be admitted into the Union before its
                    constitution had been fully and fairly submitted to the people for ratification and substituting a
                    re-affirmation of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     platform.28 Morton, chairman of the convention, referred the motion
                    to the resolutions committee. This meant that it would be lost so Moreau appealed from the
                    chair's decision. Great confusion ensued. The platform submitted by the committee was
                    defended by several speakers from the Whig element, but Julian assailed it as a "milk and
                    water" affair and criticized Morton's ruling. At this juncture, as excitement
                    mounted dangerously, Morton called one of the vice-presidents to the chair and took the floor to
                    defend himself and the platform. He justified his ruling as being consistent with the rules of the
                    convention and the platform, which he emphatically declared, contained the substance if not the form
                    of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     resolutions. Finally, by means of a pointed anecdote which by inference accused Julian
                    of factiousness, he resolved the tense audience into laughter and the report of the resolutions
                    committee was adopted.29 Thus Morton used the influence which his position gave
                    him and exercised his facility in debate in favor of moderation rather than radicalism on the
                    slavery issue and threw his weight on the side of those who considered it expedient to seek the aid
                    of the anti-Lecompton Democrats.
            Another Republican of Democratic antecedents, John Young, the nominee for superintendent of public
                    instruction in 1858, was especially eager to secure a union of anti-Lecompton Democrats and
                    Republicans. His hope that the Democratic wing of the Republican party would be thereby 
                  
                     28
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily), March 18, 1858. quoting the 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., March 6. 1858. "‘He reminds me,’
                            said Mr. Morton, ‘Of a clergyman who was sent for to pray for a man who had been
                            bitten by a rattlesnake. He looked through all his prayer books and could find nothing to
                            suit the case, and he refused to go because his books contained no form of prayer for a man
                            dying of snake biter! ’"
               
                     sufficiently strengthened to render it dominant over the Whig
                    and Free Soil elements is interesting. With victory in 1860 in mind, the desire to have the
                    Republicans adopt the traditional Whig or Democratic principles appeared in more than one quarter.
                    In order to encourage a union with the new insurgents Young went so far as to tell Stephen A.
                    Douglas, leader of the anti-Lecompton movement, that Re publicans did not oppose the popular
                    sovereignty doctrine but that they were opposed to the Administration's partiality for the
                        South.30 These he expressed as his own views, not claiming that they were
                    those of the Republican Party. As a further inducement, Young suggested that Douglas himself might
                    well become the leader of the Republican Party and its presidential nominee in 1860. During the
                    campaign he often spoke favorably of Douglas in the hope that he and his followers would join the
                    Republican Party, but in this he was disappointed.31
            
            Andrew J. Harlan, who had cast his vote against the 
                        Nebraska
                     Bill in 1854, also suggested to Douglas that he might become the Republican candidate
                    for the presidency in 1860, but at the same time he warned him that the Republicans would fight
                    their own battles with their own men in 1858.32 These men were probably
                    influenced by Greeley's editorials in the 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune which had many readers in the Northwest. Greeley was certain that Douglas
                    had taken a step in the direction of Republicanism and was urging the party not to oppose his
                    re-election to the Senate.
            In seven districts of Indiana, anti-Lecompton Democrats had a choice between the Republican and
                    regular Democratic candidates for Congress, but in three of the southern districts
                            (
                  Evansville, Terre
                            Haute
               , and 
                        New Albany
                     Districts) the Republicans supported either an anti-Lecompton Democrat or an American
                    candidate. In Garber's own district, there were three candidates for
                    Congress—Republican, anti-Lecompton Democratic, and regular Democratic.33 Thus, 
                  
                     30 In 1854, he approved the principle of the 
                                Kansas
                            -
                                Nebraska
                             Bill but doubted the expediency of raising the slavery question at that time.
                            In 1866, he left the Democratic party because he felt that Buchanan would show as much
                            partiality for slaveholders as had Pierce. Young to Douglas, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , April 6, 1868, Douglas Collection, University of 
                                Chicago
                            .
                  
                     31 Letter of John Young to Republican Convention, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily), Feb. 22, 1880. This idea of Young's was that of
                            Horace Greeley.
                  
                     32 Harlan to Douglas, 
                                Marion
                            , Ind., Jan. 18, 1868, Douglas Collection.
                  
                     33
                            Evening Courier (
                                Madison
                            ), Oct. 28, Nov. 6, 1858. The 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal. July 8, Aug. 6, 1868, approved of such action where Republicans
                            had little chance of victory.
               
                     in the areas in which there was the greatest possibility for
                    success the Republicans pursued an independent course with the hope of drawing votes from the
                    Democratic opponents of the Lecompton Constitution, while, in the Democratic stronghold of the
                    southern part of the state, they for the most part supported the candidates of other parties.
            Of the nine Republican candidates for Congress, three were former Democrats. Thus the Democratic
                    influence in the party continued to be stronger in this direction than in other respects. For the
                    third successive time, John U. Pettit was the nominee in the eleventh district. Charles Case, who
                    had been elected to fill the seat left vacant by the death of Samuel Brenton in 1857, was the
                    candidate in the tenth (
                        Fort Wayne
                    ) district34 and Albert G. Porter was nominated in the sixth (
                        Indianapolis
                    ) district.35
            
            During the campaign, leaders from the Democratic wing of the party were very active. Garber and his
                    state committee worked hard to organize the campaign. In northern Indiana, E. W. H. Ellis, whom the
                    enthusiastic Journal editor described as "one of the best informed
                    politicians in the West, and one of the most effective writers," carried on the campaign
                    through the columns of the 
                  
                            Elkhart
                         County Times. Even his political opponents were forced to admit that he was
                    "probably the shrewdest politician among the Indiana Republicans."36 Especially vigorous efforts were made by Young, candidate, for superintendent of public
                    instruction, and by Albert G. Porter, who was held to have "few equals in
                    eloquence" and "no superior in industry." This was high praise from an
                    editor who was greatly disappointed that this young seceder from the Democracy defeated his
                    favorite, Defrees, for the congressional nominations.37 Will Cumback, John U.
                    Pettit, and others from the 
                  
                     34 Case left the Democratic party in 1854 because he opposed its
                            position on the temperance question. He also opposed the 
                                Kansas
                            -
                                Nebraska
                             Bill but support of that bill was not made a test of Democracy in his district.
                                The Standard (
                                Fort Wayne
                            ), Sept. 7, 21, 1854. Until 1848 when he voted for 
                                Van
                             Buren he was a Whig but he voted for Democratic candidates from 1848 to 1864.
                                Ibid., Oct. 6, 1854.
                  
                     35 Porter opposed the 
                                Nebraska
                             Bill but accepted it once it became law. Due to the troubles in 
                                Kansas
                             he became convinced that the Administration was pro-slavery and in 1866
                            actively campaigned for 
                                Fremont
                            . Porter's speech in 
                                Indianapolis
                             Journal (daily), Sept. 9, 1858; Biographical History of Eminent
                                and Self-Made Men of the State of Indiana (Binder's title is Representative Men of Indiana) (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1880), diet. 7, 257. He served on the Democratic state central committee in
                            1849 and 1862. Stoll, History of Indiana Democracy, 106; 
                                New Albany
                            
                            Ledger (daily), Oct. 25, 1852.
                  
                     36
                            Evening Courier (
                                Madison
                            ), May 12, 1858; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily), July 6, 1858; Indiana State Sentinel
                            (daily), Nov. 22, 1869.
                  
                     37
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily), July 81, 1868.
               
                     same element in the party also participated in the canvass.38
            
            Once more defeat met the party in Indiana save in the congressional elections. And once more victory
                    was dependent on Democratic votes for Republican candidates in five out of seven of the districts
                    carried by Republicans. Some of these were anti-LeCompton men and apparently many, especially in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Lafayette
                    , were Germans because the party did not stint its praise for the "gallant
                    fight" of the Germans.39
            
            Once more Garber admonished the party against forming alliances from which nothing was to be gained.
                    E. W. H. Ellis also pointed out the futility of alliances unsupported by good organization. He
                    exclaimed in the columns of the 
                  
                            Elkhart
                         County Times: 
                        We are sick of this temporizing, milk-and-water, half-and-half policy. The Republican party
                            already needs re-organizing—not here in the North [part of the state] where the
                            party is firm, united, everywhere victorious—but at the centre and the South,
                            where anti-Lecompton victories are achieved, and Republican principles are not exactly
                            repudiated, but preached in whispers, or temporized and compromised away, until the
                            organization of the party is gone. We must change this order of things before 1860, or the
                            result of the campaign will not even be doubtful.40
                  
                    Perhaps, also, the Indiana Republicans needed to learn, as the party had already discovered
                    in 
                        Illinois
                    , that, if they were given the opportunity, the former Democrats in their ranks could
                    infuse into the party a "spirit and energy which Whig traditions could never
                        inspire."’41
            
            The election of 1860 was an important one to the Indiana Republicans for two reasons. It was thought
                    that Indiana together with 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     held the key to victory in the national election. If the party could obtain the 114
                    electoral votes which 
                        Fremont
                     captured in 1856 plus the votes of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and either Indiana or 
                        Illinois
                    , victory would be theirs. Therefore, the party leaders in Indiana felt a special
                    responsibility for carrying the state. But even more was at stake, because the legislature to be
                    elected in 
                  
                     38 Morton, however, was almost completely inactive, making only one
                            speech after the meeting of the congressional convention in his district. Grace Julian
                            Clarke. George W. Julian (Indiana Historical Collections, XI, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1923). 194. Foulke, his biographer, is silent on his political activity from
                            the state convention of 1858 until 1860. No reason for his inactivity in this campaign has
                            yet been found.
                  
                     39
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal (daily), Oct. 15, 1858: 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily), Oct. 16, 1868. A large proportion of the Germans were
                            Democrats.
                  
                     40 Quoted in Evening Courier (
                                Madison
                            ). Nov. 2. 1868.
                  
                     41 James G. Blaine, Twenty Years of Congress
                            (Norwich, Conn., 1884), I, 117.
               
                     that year would elect a 
                        United States
                     Senator. As yet. Indiana Republicans had not captured a senatorship, a circumstance
                    which undoubtedly hampered their party's growth. Indeed, in 1858, they did elect Henry S.
                    Lane, a former Whig, and William M. McCarty, an anti-Lecompton Democrat, to replace the Democrats
                    whose election by a "rump legislature" in the previous year they held invalid, but
                    the Senate refused to seat them.42 In fact, the winning of control of the
                    legislature was considered to be of equal, if not greater, importance to the party than carrying the
                    electoral vote because it meant not only that a Republican Senator would be elected but that the
                    party could redistrict the state and thus guarantee its dominance for years to come.43
            
            The old problem of how far to yield principle to expediency in order to recruit voters still caused
                    disagreement among leaders of the Republican party in Indiana. Should they abandon the original
                    Republican principle of congressional intervention in order to win to their side Douglas Democrats?
                    Should they even go so far as to adopt the "Douglas" principle of popular
                    sovereignty? The Dred Scott decision had rendered the Wilmot Proviso principle impracticable as an
                    issue and events in 
                        Kansas
                     had demonstrated that slavery could be excluded from a territory under popular
                    sovereignty. Indeed, the unhampered operation of the popular sovereignty principle would continue to
                    prevent the extension of slavery because the rapidly increasing population of the free states
                    enabled them, rather than the slave-holding sections, to become the chief colonizers of new
                    territories.
            Some editors of Whig background favored a policy of expediency. The 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Journal actually advocated the abandonment of the doctrine of congressional
                    intervention and the adoption of that of popular sovereignty,44 and was
                    supported by the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Journal, 
                        New Albany
                    
                    Tribune, and other papers which favored Fillmore in 1856.45
                    Others, such as the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, would not go quite so far, but they were willing to maintain a discreet
                    silence on the controversial point of the power of Congress for the time being. They insisted that,
                    although popular sovereignty would make 
                  
                     42
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily), Dec. 23, 1858.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., Oct. 2, 1860.
                  
                     44 Quoted in Indiana State Sentinel (daily), April
                            26, 1869.
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., April 28, 1859.
               
                     all territories free, an act of Congress was not only a
                    constitutional method but the surest and quickest way of stopping the spread of slavery. 46 Yet they were willing to desist for a time from their attempt to win
                    recognition of this abstract principle in order to gain a Republican victory by means of the union
                    of all those opposed to the Administration. Then, too, more immediate issues were at stake such as
                    the revival of the African slave trade and the proposal that Congress enact a territorial slave
                    code.
            On the other hand, some of the prominent leaders from the Democratic wing of the party, remained firm
                    in their support of the original Republican principle. Garber held that Congress was "as
                    fair a representative of popular sovereignty" as any and thought that the adoption of the
                    "Douglas" principle would be "very absurd."47 He insisted that the people of a territory were "wards of Congress" and
                    that it was the duty of Congress to educate them so that their decision on the slavery question when
                    they formed a state constitution would be a "righteous" one. As always he opposed
                    any coalition which necessitated the modification of Republican principles. He welcomed all who took
                    the Republican position but protested against coalitions between "incongruous
                    elements." These, he said, might win an election, but when the legislature met, the
                    Republicans could not rely upon their temporary allies to follow Republican leadership. The result
                    was that Republicans had to bear the responsibility for laws while they lacked any real power to
                    control the legislature.48
            
            John Young also took his stand with Garber that the time for compromise was past. He was no longer so
                    friendly to Douglas in 1860 as he had been two years earlier. Instead, he wanted now to
                    "fight under the plain Republican flag of ‘No more slave territory and no more
                    slave States’." Although he held that the Dred Scott decision should be obeyed,
                    he protested against it as a "most dangerous and wanton departure from the sacred
                    principles of liberty" and declared that he intended to "agitate till
                    death" for its reversal.49
            
            
               
                  46
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal (daily), April 16, 22, 26, May 25. June 8, 1869.
               
                  47
                        Evening Courier (
                            Madison
                        ) Quoted in Indiana State Sentinel (daily), June 10, 1859.
               
                  48
                        Evening Courier (
                            Madison
                        ), Nov. 11, 18, 1859.
               
                  49 Letter of John Young to the Republican Convention, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal (daily). Feb. 22, 1860.
            
            
            Will Cumback, too, opposed any compromise with Douglas, declaring:
            
                    I have no sympathy with this diluted Semi-Dou[g]lass-Republicanism. I take the doctrine contained
                        in the 
                            Philadelphia
                         platform as the Right Sort of political faith. As between Buchanan and Douglass I
                        should dislike to be compelled to Select. I think the doctrines of both are alike odious to the
                        North and they both alike would strike down human freedom everywhere for their own promotion.50
               
                
            Oliver P. Morton likewise clung to the doctrine of congressional intervention even after the majority
                    of the party decided to ignore it. During the campaign, he took the position that a positive law was
                    essential to the existence of slavery and that Congress could and should prohibit slavery in the
                    territories. He found constitutional authority for his view in the clause granting Congress power to
                    "make all needful rules and regulations for the government of the territory and other
                    property belonging to the 
                        United States
                    ,"51 and in the inherent right of the Federal Government to
                    acquire territory. Moreover, he thought it was the duty of the Federal Government to see to it that
                    the territories did "not contract the bad habit of slavery, polygamy or other great
                    national and social vice."52 At 
                        Terre Haute
                     he actually argued against popular sovereignty by saying that a territory could not
                    have an inherent right to self-government. If it had such a right, it was sovereign and consequently
                    had greater rights than a state which was restricted in some respects by the 
                        United States
                     Constitution. He held that a territory was a dependency to be governed by Congress for
                    the common good of the whole nation.53
            
            However, such views were those of a minority of the party for as election time neared the pressure
                    for the formation of a coalition with the Douglas Democrats and Know Nothings was so great that the
                    name Republican was omitted from the call for the state convention issued by the central committee
                    and state chairman Garber." Moreover, the platform omitted any mention of the principle of
                    congressional intervention. In 1854 and 1856 the platforms had indirectly endorsed the principle by
                    condemning the repeal of the 
                  
                     50 Letter to [
                                Israel
                             Washburn], 
                                Greensburg
                            , Ind., Jan. 19, 1859, 
                                Israel
                             Washburn Collection, Library of Congress.
                  
                     51 Foulke, Morton, I, 79.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., 80.
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., 68: Indiana Herald (
                                Huntington
                            , Ind.), April 18. 1860.
                  
                     54
                            Evening Courier (
                                Madison
                            ), Jan. 18, 1860.
               
                    
                    
                        Missouri
                     Compromise. In 1858, however, while explicitly asserting the doctrine in defiance of
                    the Dred Scott decision, the declaration was seriously weakened by the qualification that only
                    "proper and constitutional means" would be used in preventing the extension of
                    slavery. The greatest emphasis was placed on fulminations against the Lecompton Constitution as a
                    "gross outrage upon the rights of the people" and against the contention of
                    Southern extremists that the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                     carried slavery into the territories. The purpose was obvious. The party wished to get
                    the votes of the anti-Lecompton men. In 1860 the platform even more plainly assumed the position of
                    Douglas. No mention whatever was made of the power of Congress to legislate on slavery in the
                    territories, and the statement was made that "we believe slavery cannot exist anywhere in
                    this government unless by positive law."55 This was the premise upon
                    which the 
                        Freeport
                     Doctrine was based.56
            
            Again the outspoken leaders from the Democratic element bowed to the will of the Whig element. Once
                    more the need to win allies triumphed over principle in Indiana, but it was probably wiser to face
                    reality. As things stood, any attempt by Congress to prohibit slavery in a territory would be
                    declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court. Moreover, with 
                        Kansas
                     indubitably free, the question of whether Congress should give legal protection to
                    slave property in a territory was far more pressing. And, in debate on that issue their arguments
                    would be more effective if they assumed that the Supreme Court was right. If they could take that
                    position, they could make the strong plea that since Congress lacked power to prohibit slavery in a
                    territory it like-wise had no power to give it legal protection.
            In selecting candidates for state offices, the party also had in mind the necessity for winning votes
                    formerly cast for the Democratic ticket. On the ticket were two former Democrats, two former Whigs,
                    a Fillmore elector of 1856, an old Liberty Party man, and a young Republican.57
                    Ob- 
                  
                     55 William E. Henry. State Platforms of the Two Dominant
                                Political Parties in Indiana, 1850-1900 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1902), 10, 18, 16, 20-21.
                  
                     56 At 
                        Freeport,
                                    Illinois
                     , in 1858, Douglas
                            explained that slavery could not exist anywhere without the protection of local police
                            legislation. Therefore, if the people did not want slavery, he said, they could exclude it
                            by refusing to peas laws giving security to the property of slave owners.
                  
                     57 Lane and William A. Peelle were Whigs; the Fillmore man was James
                            G. Jones; the Liberty party representative was Jonathan S. Harvey; and Benjamin Harrison,
                            who ran for supreme court reporter, was a young member of the party.
               
                     viously it was designed to get votes of Democrats, Fillmore men
                    and Free Soilers as well as Whig support.
            It should be noted that the large Whig element and the smaller Democratic element in the party were
                    equally represented on the ticket, each having two candidates. Likewise, as in 1856, important
                    offices were given to former Democrats. Albert Lange was once more named for auditor. Oliver P.
                    Morton, the defeated gubernatorial candidate of 1856, was given second place on the ticket. A former
                    Whig, Henry S. Lane, was nominated for governor. The insistence of the Whig element on the rotation
                    of nominations is apparent in this arrangement. Morton, a former Democrat, had been accorded the
                    honor of heading the ticket in 1856, so the Whigs claimed that right in 1860. There was an
                    understanding, however, that Lane should be chosen 
                        United States
                     Senator if the Republicans should win a majority in the legislature, which would, of
                    course, make Morton governor.58 It seems that both men preferred to be Senator
                    and that both had to be persuaded to run for the positions assigned to them.59
            
            In the selection of candidates for Congress, also, the Whig element acknowledged the usefulness to
                    the party of the Democratic wing. Four districts, or more than at any time since 1854, named men of
                    Democratic antecedents. Porter was renominated in the sixth (
                        Indianapolis
                    ) district. The others were J. L. Yatar of 
                        Greensburg
                    , Thomas H. Nelson of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and William Mitchell of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .60 Thus the Whig element found it expedient, if not necessary, to
                    use former Democrats as candidates because they would strengthen the ticket by attracting to it
                    possible bolters from the Democracy.
            On the other hand, Whigs preferred to keep the Republican organization in their own hands. The
                    preponderant element in the organization of the state convention was Whig. The temporary and
                    permanent chairman (one man served in both capacities) and the vice-chairman were both former Whigs.
                    Garber did serve as secretary and five other members of the Democratic element were on the large
                    resolutions 
                  
                     58 David Turpie, Sketches of My Own Times (
                                Indianapolis
                            . 1908), 188-184: Will Cumback to John Sherman. Greenaburgh, Ind., Feb. 4, 1861.
                            John Sherman Collection, Library of Congress. Cumback said that there was a "sort
                            of understanding with H. S. Lane that if he would run for Governor they would give him the
                            Senatorship."
                  
                     59 Foulke, Morton, I. 66.
                  
                     60 They were running for Congress from the fourth, seventh, and tenth
                            districts. respectively.
               
                     committee.61 However, only one of the
                    fifteen members of the new central committee is known to have been of Democratic antecedents.62 Furthermore, only two of the thirteen presidential electors were former
                        Democrats63 while three of the same element were sent as delegates to the
                    national convention to which at least fourteen of the Indiana delegates were former Whigs 64 Even the orators on the convention program were all former Whigs. Morton, who
                    usually addressed such party meetings, had been called home to attend court.
            The Democratic element, however, assumed its full share and more of the work of the campaign. Former
                    Democrats were constantly in demand as speakers. Morton carried the canvass into every part of the
                    state. In many places, he appeared in joint debate with David Turpie, his competitor for the office
                    of lieutenant governor.65 Porter spoke in almost every community in his
                    district. Lange, Harlan, Charles Case, H. W. Ellsworth, Cumback, Grose, E. W. H. EIlis, Moreau, R.
                    A. Riley, and John U. Pettit were all engaged in the campaign. The roll includes the names of almost
                    every leader of the party's Democratic element. They spoke not once but many times. The
                    Whig leaders were glad to have their services both because of their ability as speakers but also
                    because of their possible influence on wavering Democrats. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Journal recommended Moreau to its readers. as "one of the most
                    fluent and attractive speakers of Young Republicanism" and said that because he had
                    "passed through the thorny ways of Democracy on his road to the true position" he
                    could give "an ‘experience’ that will be worth hearing."66
            
            Speakers who had formerly been Democrats penetrated the Democratic strongholds in the south. The
                    Lawrenceburgh 
                  
                     61 W. C. Moreau, chairman, Will Cnmbaek, William Grose, J. B.
                            McFarland. and E. W. H. Ellis were the former Democrats; nine are known to have been Whigs
                            and eight remain unidentified as to former political affiliation. For an account of the
                            convention, see 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily), Feb. 28, 1860.
                  
                     62 John Schwartz of 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            . Five Whigs and one Liberty party man were on the committee. Efforts to learn
                            the political antecedents of Alexander H. Conner, the chairman, and the seven other members
                            have been unavailing.
                  
                     63 Cumback and R. A. Riley. Cumback's popularity is indicated
                            by the fact that he was chosen elector-at-large by acclamation.
                  
                     64 C. H. Teat, Walter March, and James L. Yatar. Nine remain
                            unidentified. The Press and Tribune (
                                Chicago
                            ), May 26. 1860, characterized Yatar as a "hard-working
                            Republican" who had left the Democratic party in 1864. He signed the call for the
                            People's mass convention of July 13, 1864, and was a member of the fourth
                            congressional district committee in 1858. 
                                Indianapolis
                             Journal (daily), June 19, 1854. July 14, 1868.
                  
                     65 Turple, Sketches, 184.
                  
                     66 March 21, 1860.
               
                    
                    Republican asked that Ellsworth come to that city to lend his eloquence to the
                        cause.67 In the latter part of June, Morton and Turpie spoke from the same
                    platform in ten southern towns. To the southern counties also went Cumback and others. Evidently the
                    state committee felt that these former Democrats could make a more forceful appeal to other
                    Democrats than any other group in the party. It is also not too much to suppose that the most able
                    speakers were sent to the south where the party had been weakest in previous elections.
            The services of men of Democratic antecedents from other states were also in great demand and the
                    best campaigners in the party were sent into Indiana. Frank Blair from 
                        Missouri
                     and Lyman Trumbull from 
                        Illinois
                    , both able speakers, appeared before Indiana audiences and H. Kreismann from 
                        Illinois
                     and Fred Hassaurek from 
                        Ohio
                     talked to the German voters.68
            
            German voters, many of whom were Democrats, were particularly objects of Republican solicitude in
                    1860. They had been repelled earlier by the alliance of Republicans with Know Nothings but this was
                    supposedly broken by 185869 During the next two years the party bent every
                    effort toward conciliating the foreign voters. Carl Schurz, a most popular orator who had fled to
                    America after the revolution of 1848 in 
                        Germany
                    , was brought into the state in the spring of 1860 to talk in the centers of German
                        population.70 After a survey of the state, he was very optimistic about the
                    German Democrats. He thought that perhaps ten thousand of them could be won.71
                    When he returned later in the year, he found that considerable gains had been made in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and elsewhere.72 It was in the 
                        Terre Haute
                     district that Thomas H. Nelson (a former Democrat) made a most effective canvass. The
                        Volksbote at 
                        Evansville
                     and the Staats Zeitung at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , both formerly Democratic papers, declared for Lincoln during the campaign and many
                    individual Democrats 
                  
                     67
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily), July 24, 1960. The columns of this paper were filled with
                            notices of speeches by former Democrats during the campaign.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Democrat (weekly), Sept. 22, 1860; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily), July 17, Sept. 21, 1860: H. Kreismann to Lyman Trumbull, 
                                Chicago
                            , Aug. 30, 1860, in Trumbull Collection, Library of Congress.
                  
                     69 Kreismann to Washburne. 
                                Chicago
                            , Sept. 8, 1860, E. B. Washburne Collection. Kreismann said that Colfax had
                            neglected the Germans and that a majority of them were still Democrats in that district.
                  
                     70
                            Speeches, Correspondence and Political Papers of Carl Sehurz, edited by
                            Frederic Bancroft (
                                New York
                            , 1913). I. 110-111.
                  
                     71 Schurz to J. F. Potter, 
                                Columbus
                            , O., March 17, 1860. ibid., I. 107-108.
                  
                     72 Schurz to his wife, Terre Haute. Aug. 16, 1860, Intimate Letters of Carl Sehurz, 1841-1869, edited by Joseph Schafer (
                                Madison
                            , Wis., 1928), 219.
               
                     also decided to vote for the Republican candidates.73 Charles Coulon, prominent German Democrat of Indianapolis was one of many. He
                    was immediately called to do yeoman service for the Republicans.74 In fact, so
                    many Germans took the same stand that the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal declared that the party was "largely indebted" to the
                    German voters for its victory.75
            
            Although party leaders talked much of the importance of organization, an outside observer, after
                    spending ten days in Colfax's district, reported that in organization the Republicans there
                    were four years behind 
                        Illinois
                    .76 However, one former Democrat, Moreau, did his part in starting a
                    "Young Republican Club" movement.77
            
            October brought the state election and victory for the Republicans, a victory which was repeated in
                    the following month when Lincoln electors were chosen. According to David Turpie his
                    party's defeat was not unexpected. In his estimation it was "principally due to
                    the Breckenridge movement" and to the "ten or fifteen thousand …
                    indifferents who invariably desert a failing cause and pass over to the winning side."78 But even he had to admit that many of the so-called indifferents were after
                    all Democrats. He wrote:
            
                    In some of the counties, especially in those of the northwestern part of the state, there were
                        instances in which the whole county cabinet, elected two years before as Democrats on the
                        regular ticket, had changed their party affiliations while in office, and had carried their
                        friends and relations across our lines into the Republican quarters. At many of my meetings it
                        was openly stated by persons known before as Democrats, by some of these, that Mr. Douglas was
                        the greatest and purest statesman of the age; by others, that they had the highest regard and
                        esteem for Mr. Breckenridge, but they said it was impossible for either of these gentlemen to be
                        elected; they should vote for Abraham Lincoln. Still they professed loyalty to the Democratic
                        state ticket.79
               
                
            Lincoln's popular vote in Indiana was greater than that of all three of his opponents added
                    together. Thus the Re-publicans did not win "due to the Breckinridge movement,"
                    that is, to the division of the Democratic vote between Douglous 
                  
                     73
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily), June 30. Aug. 4, 1860.
                  
                     74
                            Ibid., Aug. 2, 1860.
                  
                     75
                            Ibid., Oct. 18, 1860. William E. Dodd.
                  
                     76 Kreismann to E. B. Washburne, 
                                Chicago
                            , Sept. 3, 1860, Washburn Collection.
                  
                     77
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal (daily), March 21, 1860.
                  
                     78 Turple, Sketokes, 188.
                  
                     79
                            Ibid., 187-188.
               
                     and Breckinridge Rather they were victorious because thousands
                    of Democrats, or men who had formerly voted Democratic tickets, supported Lincoln. Although
                    Democratic strength almost trebled in Xndiana from 1852 to 1860, the combined vote of the two
                    Democratic presidential candidates of 1860 represented a smaller percentage of the total vote than
                    Pierce had received eight years before. Obviously the Democrats had lost ground. Had they been
                    united on one candidate and had they received their normal share of the in-creased number of voters,
                    they could have won easily. It is even possible that Douglas, in spite of the split in the party,
                    could have carried the state had not several thousands of those who usually voted for Democrats cast
                    ballots for Lincoln. The chief centers of Democratic insurgency were in nineteen counties which
                    were, as Turpie pointed out, for the most part in the northern part of the state.
            The Republicans also carried the seven congressional districts which they had won in 1858.80 In all save the fifth district their victory was due to Democratic
                    insurgency. Of the seven men elected to Congress, two—A. G. Porter and William
                    Mitchell—were former Democrats. Yatar and Nelson of the same element were defeated. The
                    Republican con-trolled legislature sent Lane to the 
                        United States
                     Senate and Morton became governor. Thus the first Republican governor of Indiana was
                    from the Democratic element in the party.
            It is evident that the Democratic element contributed much to the success of the Republicans. There
                    were always former Democrats on the tickets—state and congressional. Although the
                    proportion of the candidates granted to the group varied and tended to decrease somewhat, the
                    distribution was always fair to them. During the first years, when their share was greater, they
                    actually received extremely generous treatment from the Whig element which was large enough to
                    control the selection of candidates. Moreover, they were usually accorded important
                    offices—governor, lieu-tenant governor, treasurer, auditor. The Whigs well knew the
                    influence of the former Democrats on other waverers among their opponents. Certainly, election
                    returns revealed the wisdom of their course, for there was always a goodly number of candidates who
                    owed their success to the votes of 
                  
                     80 Third and fifth to eleventh districts.
               
                     insurgent Democrats or men who had customarily voted the
                    Democratic ticket.
            The party was weakest in organization but even here it was the Democratic element which sensed the
                    need most acutely and which took the earliest action. Failure resulted in 1854, but two years later
                    Garber and others actually succeeded in organizing the Republican editors of the state. And it was a
                    former Democrat who started the Young Republic-an Clubs in 1860.
            The influence of this element on party politics is difficult to measure because its members were
                    themselves divided on the best courses to pursue. Some leaders, like Hielscher, leaned to the left
                    on the slavery question while others, such as Morton, threw their influence on the side of
                    moderation. Still others, such as Young, were willing at one time to abandon entirely the principle
                    of congressional intervention and to assume the views of Douglas. We have seen how at one time in
                    the convention of 1858 Morton had a very decided influence on the policy of the party as set forth
                    in the platform.
            There is no question as to the importance of the Democratic element as orators and political
                    debaters. Republican papers of the period are filled with notices of their speaking engagements. The
                    former Democrats were frequently sent to the strongly Democratic areas. They were given these
                    difficult assignments for two reasons. In the first place, they could make a stronger appeal to
                    waverers still in the Democratic party than could a former Whig or Free Soiler, and secondly, some
                    of the most able speakers in the party were in this element.
            The Republican party in Indiana was deeply indebted to its Democratic element from 1854 to 1860 in
                    more ways than one, and acknowledged its debt by elevating its Democratic leaders to llern
                places.
         
         
         
            "Chic" Jackson's Bean Family
            J. HARLEY NICHOLS
            One of the best known families in Hoosier history was the "Bean Family," a creation
                    of Charles Bacon ("Chic") Jackson. For more than a score of years the daily doings
                    of this family took precedence in public interest over problems of state, fluctuations of the stock
                    exchange, business depressions and similar relatively unimportant matters. Thousands laughed at the
                    droll humor of Roger, admired Mrs. Bean, played with Woody and Cynthia and their dog Yank, marveled
                    at the indomitable Golduh, viewed with mixed emotions the prying impertinences of Mrs. Probe, and
                    eagerly waited the coming of Uncle Castor and Aunt Mary Bean of 
                        Boston
                    , Mrs. Bean's Uncle Wash, the Constable of Flipsbury, Jose, the colored
                    "lormry" woman, Delbert, the spring poet, and Buck, Golduh's beau.
            Roger Bean was a business man. The exact nature of the business we do not know but it was important.
                    By his own careful estimate the downtown business world had been set back ten minutes by Mrs.
                    Bean's insistence that h help move the piano. No, he wouldn't help move the piano,
                    he said on another occasion, not even if it were on Golduh's foot. He suspected her of
                    being the fairy godmother of all the chores hung on his neck anyway. Didn't they know he
                    had an office downtown?
            Roger wasn't always attentive to questions addressed to him on weighty matters. The
                    pancakes? Why yes, they were the best he had ever tasted. He thought so well of those pancakes that
                    he was thinking seriously of recommending Golduh for citation before the league of Nations. No, he
                    wouldn't take flowers to the office. Sure he liked flowers. He liked gravy too but he
                    wouldn't carry a bowl of it down the street, Oh, well, if they could be wrapped to look
                    like spark plugs or monkey wrenches he would take about a third of them. Just a word of warning:
                    "If I come home tonight and find that jigsaw puzzle disturbed about a third of you women
                    ‘ll go to the booby hatch." As usual, Golduh had the last word: "Yeah?
                    Wal, they'd better fetch a taxi 'cause I won't walk down."
            Roger couldn't fool anyone, least of all Mrs. Probe. She knew the habits of the Bean family.
                    Roger wasn't smoking  and that meant he was going to
                    the office without his breakfast. It was a shame too—a house full of women and they
                    couldn't get a man's breakfast. Roger admitted it. It was a great injustice but he
                    would try to bear up under it. If Mrs. Probe would speak to his women folks about the matter, there
                    was a bare possibility they would try to mend their ways.
            Occasionally, we are permitted to look in one the doings at the office. Blinkey Burleson, who has an
                    office down the corridor from Roger's, is resolved to ignore the picture Roger sent him. It
                    might not be phoney, of course, but it was quite possible to have your picture taken with a string
                    of fish belonging to someone else. But how Blinkey chuckled when Roger was arrested for speeding.
                    Perhaps it was mean not to have identified him but he had it coming to him. To get even Roger
                    threatens to tell Mrs. Burleson that Blinkey went to 
                        Philadelphia
                     to see the world series and not on business for Roger, as Blinkey had told her.
            It was the entrance of Golduh, the redheaded cook from Bucyrus, 
                        Ohio
                    , into the Bean household that made it essentially different from that of the average
                    middle class home. Golduh celled in two accomplishments. She baked biscuits of univaled excellence
                    and she threw bricks with unerring accuracy. Admitted to the household as a temporary arrangement
                    only after various proposals of Roger, among them the hiring of an unemployed chorus girl, had been
                    rejected by Mrs. Bean, Golduh soon become indispensable. Golduh herself sensed the situation, and,
                    when Mrs. Bean urged her to take a vacation, replied: "Roger would beef like heck. You know
                    how tough he is about the cooking."
            Golduh took the same pride in all the housework that she took in the kitchen. It was, of course,
                    unorthodox to send the preacher to the back door but there was method in it. She wasn't
                    going to have the front porch tracked up, she told Mrs. Bean. "But you must learn to
                    exercise discrimination," Mrs. Bean explained. But Golduh was reluctant to do that. Dais
                    Fitzworthy had bought one of them bust developers and after a few days couldn't get her
                    corset on. Golduh wasn't trying to be flippant. She was never disrespectful to Mrs. Bean.
                    Golduh simply didn't understand.
            For that matter, the potato peelings in the Beans' garbage can may have been a trifle thick
                    but Mrs. Probe's mistake  was in telling Golduh so.
                    "For pity sakes, Golduh, what is the matter?" Mrs Bean exclaimed from the back
                    porch to which she had made a hurried exit from the house. "O'm gitting'
                    danged tard o' her meddlin' in my business," Golduh offered by way of
                    explanation. "How you keep out of jail is a mystery to me. You're just a police
                    character and I don't see why Mrs. Bean keeps you," Mrs. Probe shouted by way of
                    rebuttal. "Come, Joey, don't pay any attention to the hussey," she said
                    to her rooster, who somehow always managed to get a ringside seat on the fence.
                    "I'm not afraid of her," she confided to Henry, who, wholly oblivious to
                    what had hapened, was immersed in his mystery story.
            Golduh's reputation for thoroughness was soon established in the neighborhood.
                    "Buddy, when Gol gits through with ya yer embammed. I dunno wotchir up to but whotever
                    'tis don't do it," the ash-man warned the meter man, who, unmindful of
                    the danger to his health and happiness, was proceeding to turn off the gas at the Bean home while
                    the Beans were on a vacation.
            The same scientific methods were advocated by Golduh in domestic affairs that she practiced in
                    foreign relations. In a case involving no less a personage than Roger, she rendered an obiter dictum on the handling of husbands in general: "Oh dear! I wish I could
                    depend on Roger when I entertain," Mrs. Bean confided to Golduh in tones of utter despair.
                    "O'll tell ya why ya caint," Golduh responded. "How
                    far'd I git if I told them tradesmen: 'Oh dear! O'11 jist be put out if
                    yer not here with my order?' Wal, husbands aint so durned different. Yotta say jist two
                    words: 'Be here’ then tell the flat world he better had. Aint it so? Huh? Now
                    aint it?"
            It was a severe blow to the majesty of the law when Buck, the brakeman, superseded Clarence, the
                    policeman in Golduh's affections. It was Clarence's fault thought, for Golduh had
                    confided to him one evening on their way home from the guild that her greatest ambition was to have
                    a home of her own and not have to work for other people. Mrs. Probe couldn't understand it.
                    Was it alimony that he had to pay to a former wife on the high price of furniture that prevented him
                    leading Golduh to the altar? she asked Clarence one evening as he passed her house on his beat.
                    Clarence was inclined to blame Golduh. "I positively won't  marry you this year," he claimed she had written to him the
                    previous Christmas while visiting her folks in Bucyrus.
            Buck, on the other hand, had a way with the women. "End o' th' line!
                    Everybody out ! Hi, Gol ! Why, I'd rather see your red head than th' headlight on
                    th' pay car," he greeted Golduh one evening while on a brief leave from his train.
                    No, he didn't mind in the least the dough on Golduh's hands. He rather liked to
                    look like a leopard.
            Golduh for once was subdued. "Why, Golduh, most girls would he stirred pink by all the nice
                    things he says about you," Mrs. Bean told her by way of reproof for her apparent
                    indifference. "Yes and look forward to bein' married on a railroad bridge and
                    takin' our honeymoon on a handcar," Golduh retorted. Golduh liked Buck though. He
                    could be train caller on her railroad, she told Floss Avringhan at the Guild.
            In accordance with the practice of the time, Golduh accepted lecture engagements. Unlike Mrs. Bean
                    who talked to the Breakfast Club gratis, Golduh was going to charge for her lectures. It might be
                    unethical but there were precedents. There was Bryan for instance: "He does it, donty? Huh?
                    You tell'em he does," Golduh reminded Mrs. Bean.
            Serious repercussions in the labor world resulted from Colduh assuming new responsibilities, the most
                    important of which was the hiring of Jose, a colored woman, to take over the laundry work.
                    "Says which?" was Jose's initial response to all questions. If pressed
                    for a more definite commitment she usually responded: "Yo all bettah ast Mis Gol."
                    When Golduh desired to know what she had done with her "pickup" she replied:
                    "Ah's jis plannin' my work, thinkin' it out like." She
                    would have Golduh know if it didn't discommode her too much that there was marked
                    similarity between her coming and going and that of the preacher: "Yo all doan tale him
                    he's late—he tries to keep yo souls clean an' Ah tries to keep yo
                    cloves clean."
            Uncle Wash, as were Uncle Castor and Aunt Mary, was a welcome guest in the Bean home. The constable
                    dropped in at frequent and irregular intervals while the 
                        Boston
                     folk made a more extended visit once a year. "Howdy, Goldy, folks all
                    well?" Uncle Wash inquired on an occasion by way of placing his name in the pot.
                    "Ye guides, look who's here," Golduh greeted him from the head of the
                    receiving line.  "Wal, park your chew an'
                    c'min. We'll eat as soon as Mrs. Bean comes."
            In the kitchen, the exchange continued with Golduh busy with the meal and Uncle Wash occupying a
                    corner by the range, his chair leaning against the wall and his feet in a somewhat exalted position:
                    "By cracky, I've had a siege since I wuz here last—sumpin like
                    th' quinzy." "Un-hu yaint livin' right. Swotcha git."
                    "The doc says it wuz brung on by havin' my whiskers cut." "Zat
                    why yer wearin' that tie counta th' quinzy, heh ?" "Yep I haint
                    had th' quinzy since I put it on." "Ye guides, I'd ruther have
                    th' quinzy."
            At one time, we begin to fear that Uncle Wash has designs on the conjugal happiness of Henry. Things
                    take a turn for the better, however, when Washburn tells Lavina that if Joey were his rooster he
                    would teach him to chew tobacco and to spit. We are further reassured when Uncle Wash, in answer to
                    Golduh's earnest solicitations, assures that lady that his frequent trips to the city were
                    notivated by business considerations: "Pretty much a matter of business, by gum, pretty
                    much a matter of business. Five cents per mile and fifty cents for dinner." The business
                    must have been fairly lucrative for to our own certain knowledge he came to town twice on a hog
                    truck. His efficiency as an officer, however, was in nowise impaired. In answer to Roger's
                    question as to whether Flipsbury was as wide open as ever, he entered an emphatic denial:
                    "No, siree, I got her well in hand. By cracky, she's as tight as a drum."
                    "Yep, I 'spect he's even closed the barbershops," Golduh
                    observes as she transfers another pancake to Uncle Wash's plate.
            As befitted the personages, the reception accorded the 
                        Boston
                     folk was a little bit different: "Now—there's two gittin
                    outa th' taxi—looky who," Golduh exclaimed excitedly to Mrs. Bean after
                    both had hastened to the window. "Oh—bless his heart! Now Golduh, if I catch you
                    not being nice to him, I'll send you away. Uncle Castor, you darling! Why didn't
                    you write? Where's Aunt Mary? Golduh come take Uncle Castor's coat and
                    hat." "Hi siay, Sylvia, 'ows th' geryl? It's bully to
                    see you. 'Owdy Goldy, the bally old nuisance is back again." "Aw swell.
                    We wuz jis wishin’ fer ya, hopin' ya'd stay all summer. Ritzy
                    ol' club ya got here." (This  last remark
                    referred to Uncle Castor's cane). The words of welcome for Mobile, the colored chauffeur,
                    were uttered by Jose: "Doan y'all look at me liak yo's company. Git
                    yo'self a handful o' dese valises."
            Neighborhood excitement over the arrival of Uncle Castor is followed by speculation. Did he lose his
                    job or just run out on it, Mrs. Probe wondered. Henry couldn't leave his job and go
                    gallavanting around the country. Like as not Uncle Castor couldn't afford it either.
                    Golduh, too, was mystified. Why didn't he drive his own car or at least hire a white man?
                    There were so many of them out of work. There was one thing certain: If she were Mrs. Bean, she
                    wouldn't let him use one of her good napkins to polish them durned old shinny clubs. Roger
                    liked to play golf with Uncle Castor, but wearing a sweater was quite a different matter. He would
                    stand for his initials on his shirt and baby ribbon on his pajamas, but he wasn't going to
                    look like "a Pomeranian pup."
            Despite the difference in environmental influences, there was mutual understanding between Uncle Wash
                    and Uncle Castor. "Howdy, Wash, you old jail bird, hout on bail, hi suppose," the
                    Bostonian greeted the Flipsburyite during the progress of a cordial and extended handshake at a
                    pre-arranged meeting at the Bean home. Uncle Wash returned the volley: "By cracky, never
                    thought Aunt Mary'd tolerate ya this long. Howdy, you old 
                        Boston
                     dude. Tryin' to evade the law, I reckon." Nor were their interests
                    and habits essentially different—at the Follies Uncle Castor would have liked a cigarette
                    while Uncle Wash was just dying for a chew.
            Interspersed with the doings of the grownups were the play and chatter of the children. Woody was
                    left on the Beans' doorstep while Cynthia was adopted into the family after a harrying
                    experience with Harry the Rat. This last was accomplished not without protest from Mrs. Probe, who,
                    while confessing that it was none of her business, thought it wasn't right to bring up the
                    child in an atmosphere of brick throwing, vulgar language and downright mismanagement.
            It was the grownups and not the youngsters whose welfare was endangered, however. "Daddy
                    Woger" is going to hear from Cynthia "when he dits home, by tracky," and
                    Woody informs Golduh that he isn't going to have his mail  (this particular letter was from Peggy)) put in any old pantry. But
                    even Woody must have seen the logic in Golduh's retort: "Ye guides! It's
                    hid there less than in any place else. If I was going to tell someone to meet ya, I'd send
                    'em to th' pantry, big boy." It is true, of course, that Roger was
                    offered the czardom of the "Northside Clippers," but the proposition carried with
                    it the obligation to provide the uniforms for the ball team to which Woody belonged and we do not
                    wonder that Roger desired to sleep on the offer.
            The children grew and in due time Woody graduated from high school. "For pity sakes! I
                    can't hardly believe it," Mrs. Bean said, half to herself and half to Golduh, as
                    she looked down the street from the front porch of the Bean home. "Tain't nobody
                    but Woody," Golduh replied. "But just think, he will soon be in college,"
                    Mrs. Bean explained. "Tain't nothin' to be ashamed of. Yotta be glad
                    tain't th' penitenshury," Golduh offered by way of consolation.
            Did Woody graduate from college? Were Buck and Golduh finally married? If so, was the wedding formal
                    and was Mrs. Probe invited? Does Joey still defy the mortality tables for 
                        Rhode Island
                     Red roosters? If not what was the manner of his going and what were the funeral
                    arrangements? How does Yank amuse himself, now that the children are grown, or has he had his day
                    and gone where all good dogs go? Are Clarence and Uncle Wash still guardians of the law and does the
                    latter's bag of "ladyslipper" have a zipper on it? Did Roger weather the
                    depression and what is his attitude toward the New Deal? Is Mrs. Bean as charming as ever? Has she
                    had her hair bobbed? Does she use rouge and fingernail-polish? These and many other things relating
                    to the recent doings of the Bean family we would like to know. The answers lie buried with
                    "Chic" Jackson.
            Charles Bacon ("Chic") Jackson, the creator of the comic strip, The
                        Bean Family, was born in 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, on New Year's Eve of 1876. He attended the 
                        Muncie
                     schools but withdrew before completing his high school course. He worked successively
                    in a shoe factory, grocery store, printing office, bolt factory, maleable iron works, glass factory
                    and, at last attained what to him seemed the zenith of his ambitions, a position as illustrator and
                    front page cartoonist  on the 
                        Muncie
                    
                    News later on the 
                        Muncie
                    
                    Star into which the News was absorbed.
            While employed by the 
                        Muncie
                     newspapers, he became acquainted with Margaret Wagner of Springport, Indiana, who also
                    was employed by the 
                        Muncie
                    
                    News. To Miss Wagner, he sold the "blue-sky proposition" of
                    becoming Mrs. Jackson, as he said in speaking humorously of his life, and they were married in 1902.
                    "While I have been busy raising the Bean family, Mrs. Jackson has very successfully reared
                    our two fine boys," he once remarked years later.
            A few years after their marriage, the Jacksons went to 
                        Chicago
                     where "Chic" spent a year at. the 
                        Chicago
                     Art Institute. In 1907, he accepted a position with the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star, at first doing Sunday feature illustrating and later developing The Bean Family. This last feature first appeared in the Star of April
                    22, 1913, the first drawing, appropriately enough, showing Roger and Mrs. Bean alighting from the
                    train at the Union Station preparatory to settling in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . During Jackson's later years, the strip was syndicated and appeared in other
                    journals besides the Star.
            The vast popular interest in the doings of the Beans was made manifest by the amount of "fan
                    mail" Jackson received. Said the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star at the time of his death: "Let Chic make the smallest kind of a
                    mistake and he heard about it. He precipitated a small flury when he inadvertently left the stripes
                    from Golduh's stockings one day. One person, a woman, called him to time for having Mrs.
                    Bean serve gingerbread too late in the season. Thousands of letters came to him from all over the
                    country to point out any small discrepancy and other thousands wrote just because they wanted him to
                    know the enjoyment they got from his strip." A favorite method of expressing appreciation
                    was by sending bricks for Golduh to throw. These were often accompanied by humorous suggestion for
                    their use.
            Among Jackson's cherished recollections was one of a call that James Whitcomb Riley made in
                    1915. The poet was infirm and unable to leave his car, but sent his chauffeur to the second floor of
                    the Star building with a request that "Chic" come down to the
                    parked automobile. There Riley told him of the enjoyment he had derived from the characters
                    displayed in the strip and of the pleasure the good wholesome humor had afforded him. When the poet
                         died the following year "Chic" was deeply
                    grieved and expressed his loss in a cartoon representing Roger Bean under a tree reading
                    "The Raggedy Man" to Woody, the Caption being: "But His Songs Go On
                    Forever."
            Jackson had often expressed a desire that he might live to see Woody through college. This desire was
                    not realized for, on June 3, 1934, a short time before the close of Woody's Freshman year,
                    Mr. Jackson died at the result of a heart attack. The deep sense of loss of the many who followed
                    his strip was appropriately expressed in a drawing by William Heitman in the Star
                    of June 5, of that year, representing the characters in The Bean Family with
                    downcast countenances gathered around the vacant chair and drawingboard of their departed friend.
            
               The Bean Family was not an ordinary comic strip. To its development Jackson brought
                    a deep insight into human nature, based on a broad knowledge of the workaday world. His aim, as he
                    himself expressed it, was to picture human beings naturally on the theory that there was enough
                    humor and fascination in everyday life without straining to create either. That his characters
                    seemed as real as flesh and blood people is proof that he succeeded.
         
         
         
            A Student From a Pioneer Family at Purdue
            HARRY O. GARMAN
            This is the story of the actual experience of a student from a pioneer family of Indiana coming from
                    LaPorte County to 
                        Lafayette
                     in 1897 as a student in the Short Course in Agriculture at Purdue University, and
                    remaining to graduate in the Course in Civil Engineering in 1902.1 At the age of
                    sixteen years, I came to Purdue with another short-course student, my room-mate, named Wade Haines
                    from Hudson Lake near 
                        New Carlisle
                    .
            Even though northern Indiana was settled later than southern Indiana, it was the first part of the
                    State to be seen by white man—in 1673 by Marquette, then by LaSalle in 1679, both
                    traveling over the Sauk Trail (and continental divide) and across lands that afterwards became the
                    home farms of the Garman and Haines families.
            We came to 
                        Lafayette
                     over the Monon Railroad, which had no permanent passenger station in 
                        Lafayette
                     at that time (1897), but had leased for passenger station purposes an old store room
                    located, on the southwest corner of Fifth and 
                        Columbia
                     streets, one block from the court house square.2 On the way through
                    the Kankakee marsh south of Wanatah, the whistle blew for a station. The brakeman, in his blue
                    uniform, stuck his head out to see if there were any passengers on the gravel platform, and his blue
                    cap with gold braid blew off into the marsh grass. He immediately pulled the signal cord for the
                    train to stop and back up for his hat much to the disgust of the other members of the train crew.
                    The town of Monon was a point for changing engines and it was during this interval that the
                    passengers with money went into the restaurant for a railroad lunch of coffee, sandwiches and pie,
                    while we poor farmer boys at our lunches out of paste-board shoe boxes—lunches prepared
                    by our good farm mothers.
            We found a room in Snoddyville, adjoining the campus on the west, and two and a half blocks south of
                    State Street. The name of the family was Turner. It was made up of 
                  
                     1 The author, C. E., Purdue University, 1902, is an active member of
                            the Society of Indiana Pioneers.
                  
                     2 The Monon was an old railroad in 1897. For many years before the
                            leasing of the store room mentioned, the passenger station was located in the Lahr House.
                            which stands at the side of the railway at the southeast corner of Main and Fifth Streets.
                            The Monon runs through the city on Fifth Street.
               
                     two sisters, one a widow and the other a spinster. In the same
                    house, there was a boarding table where several of the football team ate. When meals were called a
                    football rush was made. There was plenty of food, but the young men enjoyed a little shoving. This
                    was the first time I ever heard dirty stories at the table, which had to be told intermittently
                    during the intervals when the old maid waitress was in the kitchen loading her tray for more
                    service. Although the food was served on the table in large dishes, these had to be refilled. Many
                    times the sliced bread was "dealt" from the end of the table like cards from a
                    deck. We all became expert catchers, and learned how to avoid bread-crumbs in our eyes. The Turner
                    women frowned on all this, but they wanted to keep their table, filled with boarders.
            At this time, there was an old steel through-truss bridge over the 
                        Wabash
                     River at Main Street (washed out by the 1913 flood). The electric railway track was
                    carried over the river with a supplemental steel truss on the north side of the roadway and
                    continued on to West 
                        Lafayette
                     on the north side of the road (levee) to the foot of the West Side Hill. The present
                    levee is higher, being built up after the 1913 flood. On the old levee, there was one sidewalk in
                    1897. It was on the south side and made of a mixture of tar and gravel worn to holes, which made it
                    difficult to walk on after dark with no street lights.
            In the short course in agriculture, I first learned that a mule is a half-breed, a cross between the
                    donkey and the horse. I learned this by asking a question during a lecture on horses by a Mr.
                    Hussellman, a special lecturer and practical farmer. When I asked the question, he at first thought
                    I was joking him; but when he saw that I was in earnest he asked the class to be quiet while he
                    explained the matter to me in a kindly manner. The members of the class were not so considerate as
                    the lecturer, and, until the end of the eleven weeks course, scarcely a day passed that someone did
                    not call to me across the campus asking if I was acquainted with mules. Even electrical, civil, and
                    mechanical engineers, who learned in their boarding houses about the episode in that class-room,
                    would call to me asking about mules.
            At the end of this short course in agriculture in March, 1897, those of us who were in the course
                    ("short-horns")  returned to our farm homes.
                    In the following September, I returned to Purdue University and entered the four year course in
                    engineering as a freshman. I roomed with a Preston family on the southwest corner of University and
                    Second streets in Snoddyville, two blocks north of State Street and adjoining the old campus on the
                    west. During this school year, the ordinary experiences of a freshman fell to my lot.
            September, 1898, was the beginning of the sophomore year and of my life in the old four-story brick
                    dormitory yet standing and now used for class-room purposes. This dormitory was lighted with gas,
                    but there were no toilets in the building and no running water in any room. On each floor was a
                    bathroom with a zinc bathtub, almost always dirty, and an old marble washstand, not often used. In
                    each bed-room was a washstand, a coarse china wash-bowl and large pitcher. On the floor at the side
                    was a sheetiron slop-pail supposed to be emptied each morning. The toilets for the dormitory were in
                    a low, one story brick building, located about forty yards west of the dormitory and surrounded by a
                    small grove of pine trees. There were no sewers in West 
                        Lafayette
                     in the gay nineties. Only a few of the better homes had running water and the sewage
                    was discharged into dry wells. On dark nights boys in the dormitory dared not make a run for the
                    toilet, because there was no sidewalk, and there was danger of colliding with a pine tree or running
                    against the flat brick wall. On moonlight nights or during thunder storms, it was easy to locate the
                    building. The school provided the furniture and the naked room. The students furnished the springs,
                    bedding and linen.
            Since I must provide my own bedding, my mother, on the home farm near Rolling 
                        Prairie
                    , provided me among other things with a tick full of new goose feathers and a large tick
                    for straw. I never slept on bed springs until after living in the dormitory for about one year. Then
                    I bought an abandoned set of bed springs for twenty-five cents—a real luxury.
            The feathers in my feather-tick were picked by my mother from our geese on the farm which I caught
                    and held for her. I can always remember how the geese would give one squawk with each hand full of
                    feathers. We picked the ganders first because they protested the most, and I had to  hold their heads while they were being picked to keep them from
                    pinching mother. I am reminded that the rule for many years, for the collection of taxes, has been,
                    and is yet, to adopt a system of tax collection that "gets the most feathers with the least
                    squawking."
            I went to school with two trunks, one for my clothes and one for my bedding including the feather bed
                    which had to be compressed to close the trunk. Upon my arrival in 
                        Lafayette
                     about noon, I engaged a man with a one-horse cracky-wagon to haul the two trunks to the
                    "west side" and help me carry them to my room on the fourth floor. The lower
                    class-men had to take the upper floors while the upper clasamen had the choice of rooms on the lower
                    floors. Of course there were no elevators, but running up and down stairs was not tiresome for farm
                    boys. In the afternoon I took my large straw tick and went with the man who operated the one-horse
                    cracky-wagon to the strawstack on the University Farm on the south side of the West State Street
                    (now nearly opposite the beautiful dormitories for girls). Here (by permission) we stuffed the tick
                    with straw until it was about three feet thick. We then loaded it on the cracky-wagon, hauled it to
                    the dormitory and carried it up to the fourth floor. The stairways were narrow and we had difficulty
                    making the turns. When in my room, I paid the dray-man for his services and he left. Then I sewed
                    the tick shut with some strong twine and rolled it into the bedroom and up on to the cross slats of
                    the bedstead. I placed the tick of feathers on top, then the sheets and quilts, and I was ready for
                    a school year. By this time, the bed was about four feet thick on top of the slats. I could not get
                    "into" or on top of the bed from the floor so I stood on one of the trunks and
                    jumped over on top of the bed. I knew from experience that it was necessary to break a new straw bed
                    straight down and keep it level so it would not develop a slope which would make it difficult to
                    remain in the bed.
            Towards evening my new and strange room-mate came, a boy named Thaddius Perry. We each had separate
                    bedrooms with a common study room. During the course of our first conversation, I noticed his eyes
                    wander over to my bedroom door and remain fixed for a moment. Then he asked what I had in there and
                    I told him it was my bed. He asked permission to look at it, and I said
                    "certainly." Then he broke  out into a loud
                    laugh. I asked him what was funny about my bed and he said it was the first straw bed he had ever
                    seen and ventured the statement that it was the only straw bed in the building if not the only one
                    of its kind in town. I countered with the suggestion that there might be several others in the
                    building like it.
            After supper as I sat visiting with my new room-mate, we had an unusual number of callers, strangers
                    to me who were other roomers in the dormitory. I thought at first that they were just friendly and
                    wanted to be neighborly, but, in each case, after a few pleasant words about where we came from and
                    the school we were in, the conversation always got around to my high straw bed and a request to see
                    it. I soon learned that I was harboring a curiosity. I asked my room-mate how they knew about it,
                    and he replied that after the first caller it went by word of mouth all over the building. It was a
                    source of inner embarrassment to me to be the curiosity of the building, and as soon as I could get
                    money enough together I bought for a nominal amount the abandoned set of bed springs mentioned
                    above, and a mattress that was stored in the basement.
            In January of 1899, I "took down" with a serious case of pleurisy and pneumonia. It
                    became necessary to go to the St. Elizabeth Hospital, then the only one in the city. There were no
                    ambulances in town so it was a matter of riding on a stretcher in the police patrol-wagon or in the
                    dead-wagon of an undertaker, both horse-drawn conveyances, from the dormitory to the hospital. Most
                    of the streets were covered with muddy gravel. The mud had recently frozen and the wheels had steel,
                    not rubber tires.
            Well, do I remember riding flat on my back in the dead-wagon, my temperature 104 degrees, the horses
                    walking, the steel tires jolting over the rough frozen streets and my doctor following in a horse
                    and buggy just behind. I was delerious by the time I got to the hospital, my first experience in any
                    kind of a hospital, and the Catholic sister sat by the side of my bed and read prayers while I
                    insisted on telling her farm stories. Some of my tales made it nearly impossible for her to keep a
                    serious face while reading the prayers. My hospital experience, which extended over a period of
                    several months, delayed my graduation from 1901 to 1902. I played  in the Purdue Band from 1901 to 1902, and became a member of the engineering faculty in
                    September, 1902.
            The people of the city and other students of the University had a mortal fear of the men in the
                    dormitory. We had a yell that went something like this:
                        A—O—D—D—H—2—O!
                        DORMITORY! DORMITORY!
                        DOE—SEE—DOE!
                     The first four letters (AODD meant Ancient Order Dormitory Devils; "H2O" meant water. The three words of the last line had no significance
                    but were used to force a rhyme. Several students who came to visit the dormitory were undressed and
                    painted with shoe polish while others were "ducked" with all their clothing on in
                    the old zinc bath tubs, all of which tended to keep up the reputation of the dormitory for being a
                    dangerous place. Everything was done in the spirit of good sport, however; there was nothing
                    vicious. Several of us in the dormitory belonged to the Sunday School class at the Trinity Methodist
                    Church on the East Side where I played a trumpet in the orchestra. Some of the church people
                    wondered how such nice boys could live in such a terrible place.
            In the spring of 1904, I began "keeping company" with one of the girls in the
                    Sunday School named Ethel Elfride Hanly, and we were soon engaged to be married. In November, 1904,
                    her father, J. Frank Hanly, was elected Governor of the state of Indiana in the Republican landslide
                    by which Theodore Roosevelt retained the presidency of the 
                        United States
                    . On December 19, 1904, Miss Hanly and I were married in the Trinity Methodist Church.
                    All of my students were invited and came in a body dressed in dark clothes and each wearing a
                    beautiful red carnation, Mr. Hanly's flower. The Governor-elect gave his daughter in
                    marriage. The people of the city rushed the doors until the church was packed with people standing
                    in the aisles on the first floor and in the galleries. The city police had to close the church doors
                    until after the ceremony and then clear the traffic on Sixth and Ferry streets before we could get
                    away to the home of my bride's parents, at the corner of South Ninth and Owen streets,
                    where we had a wedding breakfast. We expected to leave at noon on a honeymoon trip to 
                        New Orleans
                    , but, at the appointed hour,  students and other
                    friends gathered around the house and insisted on taking us, bride and groom, to the railroad
                    station in a buggy drawn by two mules in tandum with postillions. We then delayed our going until
                    the four o'clock train hoping the boys would go away, but instead they built bon-fires in
                    the snow, sent for their meals and settled down for a siege. I had heard rumors of kidnaping and was
                    afraid to leave the house. At three in the afternoon, a committee of students came to the front door
                    and promised to protect me against kidnaping if I would ride with my bride in the buggy drawn by the
                    mules. We finally compromised and I was drawn to the station by the mules and my bride rode in a
                    two-horse carriage behind me. There were about three hundred students and other people around the
                    carriages when we, including the Governor and his wife, started from the house to the Big Four
                    Railway station. The crowd kept gathering numbers, as the procession marched toward the station
                    until the mob, or so it appeared, took the entire width of 
                        Columbia
                     Street on which the procession had turned at Ninth Street. At the railroad station,
                    there was a mass of people and the carriages were driven to the side of the train. We were helped
                    into our Pullman car and the doors were locked. We were out of the hands of the paraders and in a
                    few moments the Big Four train was on its way to Kankakee, 
                        Illinois
                    , where we transferred to the 
                        Illinois
                     Central and were at last headed for 
                        New Orleans
                    . We had planned a quiet home wedding, but on account of changed circumstances we were
                    projected into exciting situations almost beyond our control.
            The cost of living at Purdue was much lower during my student days than it is now. Good board could
                    then be had at many places in private homes at $2.00 per week, three meals per day, seven
                    days in the week. The total cost of schooling for one year, ranged from $400.00 to
                    $600.00 per year from 1897 to 1902 for those who did not earn a part of their expenses.
            Inter-collegiate sports were not well organized then. They were in the hands of the students, little
                    supervised by the faculty, and nearly always operated on a deficit. I did not go to games when a
                    student, because I had no money to purchase tickets. The football field was then called Stuart Field
                    and  was located east of the present Armory. Music Hall now
                    stands about in the middle of the old gridiron.
            The "Bell" of which students now display a replica on rubber wheels at football
                    games, was first located on top of the old powerhouse. This was replaced by what is now called the
                    Education building (B7). The old engineer, named Bianky, would ring this bell at 6:00 A.M. for the
                    dormitory boys to get out of bed; then, at 7:00 P.M. for the boys to begin studying; and at 10:00
                    P.M. for them to cease studying and go to bed. Many times I have walked into the boiler room just
                    before time for the bell to ring and found Mr. Bianky hanging on the bell-rope with his face towards
                    the clock waiting for the exact moment to swing the full weight of his body on that rope to call
                    students to their duties and give to others the time of day. The present use of this bell in noisy
                    victory demonstrations is a far cry from its original use to call sleepy boys to dress for
                    breakfast, to study or finally to rest and peaceful slumber. When I see the old bell at a football
                    game, I feel that it has been drafted into a service, quite foreign to its original use.
            There were no motion or sound pictures then. The show houses were called Opera Houses. Real shows
                    came to them and it cost real money to see them, so ordinary students did not see many. Play or
                    recreation was considered bad—a waste of time when there was so much work to do. There
                    were only a few dances in those days, the best of them given by fraternities. Most of the students
                    came from homes where they were taught that the common dance was an institution of Satan. The
                    fraternity dances were well chaperoned and ranked high socially, but there were not many of them.
                    The city girls would give almost anything they had to "rate" one of these
                    fraternity dances. My father-in-law to-be told his daughter to keep away from those Purdue students,
                    but, since I was on the teaching staff, she argued with him that i was not a student, so we were
                    free to meet each other and were later married as related above.
            Students had to make most of their own entertainment. They assembled in the room of some congenial
                    spirit bringing with them their favorite instruments—guitars, mandolins, violins and
                    horns. Since I played a cornet in the band and in the Sunday School, I contributed music on the
                    cornet at our impromptu gatherings. Many of the boys were good singers.  The music could be heard for a block each way from the house and there
                    was no liquor used in the party. Once I roomed where there was a fine old black walnut foot-pedal,
                    bellows organ. One of my roommates, Steigley of LaPorte, played and sang with a beautiful tenor
                    voice. When we began to play and sing, our rooms were soon filled with other singing and playing
                    students.
            Once while rooming in the dormitory, I took my cornet with me to the room of another student named
                    Endicott. He played a large double B base horn, comparable to one of the great modern helicons. We
                    had to play some music that we both knew, so we fished out an old Methodist hymn-book at about ten
                    o'clock in the morning, forgetting that classes were in session on the campus while we were
                    in the dormitory with the windows open. We played "Rock of Ages," "Nearer
                    My God to Thee" and "Jesus Lover of My Soul." The next morning we each
                    received a nice note from President Stones asking us not to play during class periods in the daytime
                    nor during study hours in the evening.
            Our only home trips were at Christmas, because of the expense and because the faculty frowned on
                    excursions from the campus. These trips disturbed the minds of the students for about two weeks
                    before the trip, thinking about going; and about two weeks after returning, when we did thinking
                    that was not about our lessons. There was in addition the matter of over-eating and indigestion, due
                    to change in menu, not to mention exposure to measles, influenza, chicken pox, et
                        cetera.
            Some of the old buildings that I loved are now gone from the campus. For instance where the
                    wood-frame gymnasium (a barn Iike structure) stood, we have the Memorial Gymnasium (B 16) in memory
                    of the terrible football wreck on the railroad tracks in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1904 when seventeen men were killed. I will never forget the sweaty smell of the old
                    gymnasium because there were no bathing facilities and we all went home after a military drill wet
                    with perspiration. The old brick Science Hall, part two-story and part one-story, was replaced with
                    the Stanley Coulter Hall (B 11). The Ladies Hall, a two story brick building, was replaced with the
                    Home Economics Building (B 1). The Ladies Hall was 
                  
                     3 Winthrop Ellsworth Stone succeeded to the presidency of Purdue
                            University In 1900 after the death of President William H. Smart.
               
                     where the "sissies" called on their girl
                    friends, two and three couples in the room at one time with a chaperon next door. No real
                    "he" student would visit with a girl in this place.
            The original agricultural experiment station, a brick two-story building, was replaced with the
                    present Agricultural Experiment Station (A 1). Here most of the experiments not requiring large
                    spaces, were performed. I shall always remember the smells of dead horse meat, carbolic acid, ether
                    and chloroform. Likewise I cannot forget the barking and moaning of dogs undergoing
                    "professional operations" by students in the classes nor the squawking of young
                    roosters passing into capon-hood.
            We killed and cut up our horses in class in a small wood-frame barn which has been replaced with the
                    Horticultural Building (A 4) on S. Marstellar Street. I never had a heart for seeing anything killed
                    and I usually remained in another room when the animal was being dispatched. It was nearly too much
                    for me to help arrange the fresh bed of straw for the horse to fall on when shot. The poor old
                    animal who had earned a better end than this was shot with a twenty-two rifle, held in the hands of
                    the professor (a Dr. Bitting). The muzzle of the gun was poised about four inches from the forehead
                    of the horse so that the professor would be sure and not miss the intended victim and hit some of
                    the students.
            The entire student body of Purdue University numbered about 700 students at the end of the century.
                    The faculty and student body knew each other by name or by sight. A chapel meeting was held on the
                    fourth floor of the Main Building, now University Hall (B 6) every Wednesday morning. Attendance was
                    compulsory for freshmen and sophomores and also for faculty members. The standard routine of the
                    chapel exercises was reading from the Scriptures, the Lord's Prayer repeated by all
                    (Presbyterian version) and announcements of general interest. The exercises were accompanied by some
                    special music or some special speaker.
            I remember when a noted group of visitors came to the University and ended up in the Chapel
                    exercises. In the party were former Secretary of the State John W. Foster and ex-President Benjamin
                    Harrison. Foster was the speaker of the occasion. He read from some manuscript that he had prepared
                    years back and his message did not fit the occasion. Both Foster and Harrison were aged, corpulent
                    and bearded  men. Foster could scarcely keep awake while reading
                    his paper and Harrison accompanied by several students fell fast asleep. The students did not object
                    to the extra two hours of chapel because it was easier than class work.
            James H. Smart was Purdue's president and the vice-president was Winthrop E. Stone,
                    professor of chemistry. After I entered the University, I found President Smart liked to meet
                    students. He had a rather imposing, but friendly appearance. He was very near sighted, had wide
                    untrimmed sideburns, and wore nose-rider glasses tethered with a silk ribbon. When a student came to
                    President Smart's office, he would rise to his feet, extend a hand of welcome and look the
                    student straight in the eye. Because of near-sightedness, President Smart would approach his caller
                    until their noses were only about six inches apart. Even though the meeting was most friendly, the
                    student left with the feeling that he had been "backed out of the office."
                    Vice-President Stone, a brother of the associate justice of the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court, was a warm hearted man with a cool exterior. He appeared to like me from
                    the first time we met. The fact that I was a poor boy from the farm, did not wear the latest cut
                    clothes and did not go to dances, seemed to make him like me more.
            A popular mathematics professor was a quaker named Moses Cobb Stevens. He had a full, untrimmed, red
                    beard streaked with grey. He was easy with his students and did not give many examinations as he
                    admitted that he did not like to grade papers. When possible, no engineers were assigned to his
                    classes. He had most of the girls and the boys not in the engineering courses. I was assigned to his
                    class because of a schedule conflict, but I enjoyed him and the work. He was so deaf that he could
                    only hear part of the questions the class asked—it seemed only such questions as he
                    wished to hear. The class conversed openly in his presence while he was lecturing. This would
                    occasionally develop into a comedy and loud laughter would result which he could see. This would
                    induce the remark from him that he did not know he had said anything funny. Then there was more
                    laughter. Such a condition developed to the extent that students not enrolled wih him would visit
                    the Stevens class in mathematics just to see the fun. He was, however, quick to spot a visitor. Then
                    he would stop the class work and begin an interview  with the
                    visitor in an attempt to discover his reasons for wishing to visit a class in mathematics. This
                    always developed into a comic situation. Personally, I do not think that Professor Stevens was as
                    deaf as he pretended to be. I think that, behind his red whiskers, he had about as much fun as we
                    did. He and his wife had both been married before and both had children by their former marriages.
                    Their own marriage had been blessed with a daughter Martha, who, now grown to young womanhood, was
                    the life of any party. A boy of one of the previous unions married a step-sister of the other
                    earlier marriage, there being no blood relationship. The house was large and all were Quakers and
                    there appeared to be perfect peace. Students in speaking of this happy family said that there were
                    included in the family "his children, her children and their children." This
                    family record would furnish an interesting subject for a genealogist.
            T. G. Alford, another professor of mathematics, was one of God's noblemen, always thorough
                    and kindly in class. On Sundays, he wore a long broadcloth Prince Albert coat that came down about
                    to his knees. Every Sunday afternoon, he met a large group of young men in a room in the old
                    Agricultural Experiment Station building on the south side of State Street. There he discussed the
                    Bible with them. His wish was to keep the boys in the Church and prevent "back
                    sliding" when they broke home ties and came to college. He did a great work.
            Dr. Stanley Coulter, head of science was another of the grand men of the old faculty. He was a
                    character builder and an expert teacher. Students did not "cut" his classes. His
                    periods in the weekly class schedules of students were times of relaxation and absorbtion of
                    knowledge. There were no disciplinary problems. Each student, even one who was a rowdy at other
                    points on the campus, became a gentleman when he came into the presence of Stanley Coulter. Every
                    student who knew him remembers him as a personal friend.
            There were 149 graduates in my class in 1902; in June 1940 there were graduated 1072 students, not
                    counting 132 graduate students who received advanced degrees. When I visit the University now I feel
                    like a stranger on a strange campus. Old buildings are gone and most of the old professors are dead
                    and gone or have retired. The campus once faced south on State Street but now is so large that it
                    seems  to face in all directions. I feel that something has been
                    lost never to return. Many of the students and faculty are strangers to each other. Standardization
                    and system have become necessary. Everything is stream-lined and somewhat impersonal. The student
                    passes along on the "assembly line belt," while each professor tries to give him
                    something as he goes by. Everyone is in a hurry to go somewhere and to do something. I am now sixty
                    years of age. I have not retired, but I just want to slow down a little and enjoy things, so I have
                    built a home on a hill in a woods twelve miles from 
                        Indianapolis
                    . There I can enjoy the conveniences of an apartment and the luxury of the trees, the
                    wild flowers and the birds. I drive in each day to my office in the city. As a farmer boy, I worked
                    to get into the city. After many years, I worked to get out of the City.
         
         
         
            
               1 MAP I. 
                            Pike
                         County, Indiana, county and township boundaries as of 1940. Settlements of 1816,
                        when the area was a part of 
                            Gibson County
                        . U. S. land claims (quarter-sections) are marked by dots, one dot for each
                        quarter-section. Ancient grants are marked off in plots, which were lettered and numbered.
                        Scale: 6 miles to 1 inch.
            
            
            The First Families of White Oak Springs, 1810 to 1817
            MARGARET STORY JEAN* AND ALINE JEAN TRENOR
            For a brief span of years between 1807 and 1814, the most populous and the most important settlement
                    on the Buffalo Trace in Indiana Territory from Clarksville to Vincennes was White Oak Springs.1 The White Oak Springs Fort stood within a large stockade on high ground
                    directly beside the Trace in White River Township of 
                        Knox
                     County. It was about one mile west of the present 
                        Pike
                     County court-house at Petersburg, Indiana, and about one day's journey from 
                        Vincennes
                    . Because of its accessible location and its safe and commodious arrangements, it served
                    as a hostel for travellers to and from the territorial capital, and as an outpost and powder-base
                    for the territorial militia.
            The White Oaks Springs settlement had its beginnings between 1800 and 1807, when a little group of
                    immigrant families clustered themselves about the Fort on adjacent quarter sections of land on both
                    sides of the Trace, and it has had continuous existence from their day to this, as White Oak Springs
                    until 1817, and as Petersburg thenceforward.2 The families that comprised the
                    community of White Oak Springs before 1810 were: the Tislow, Coonrod, Miley3 and
                    Coleman families, who were German and came more or less directly from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ; 4 the Brenton and Arnold families, who came from 
                        Virginia
                    , the first and probably the 
                  
                     * Mrs. Margaret Story Jean died on February 26, 1937, but
                            much of the research for this paper was done by her, and its organization had been
                            undertaken before her death.
                  
                     1 For personal confirmation of this statement the authors are indebted
                            to Mr. George R. Wilson. author of the History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                      (
                                Jasper
                            . 1910) and Early Indiana Trails and Surveys (
                                Indianapolis
                            . 1919). Ft. MacDonald (1801) at the Mudholes in the DuBois County area and
                            Parker's Improvement (1806). later 
                                New Albany
                             (1812), were the only other settlements. and neither was so populous or so
                            favorably located for the use of travelers. Clarksville is today a town of about 2,500
                            population, located between 
                                Jeffersonville
                             and 
                                New Albany
                            .
                  
                     2 For a study of White Oak Spring before 1810. see Margaret Story Jean
                            and Aline Jean Treanor, "The First Families of White Oak Springs," Indiana Magazine of History (December, 1936). XXXI, 290-816.
                  
                     3 The supposition that the Miley family was German ie substantiated by
                            a quotation from a letter written November 18. 1809, by S. R. Henderson to Emory Harrell,
                            both of whom were grandsons of Moses and Mary Miley Harrell: "The (Miley) family
                            was 
                                Pennsylvania
                             Dutch … . They came from 
                                Pennsylvania
                             and I have heard my Grandma say that up to the age of seven she
                            couldn't speak a word of English."
                  
                     4 Recent information received indicates that William Coleman,
                            petitioner for the Rock Ford Ferry (1809) was the father of Page, Henry, and Phillip
                            Coleman. The latter settled in the neighborhood of the later town of Winslow. where his
                            descendants still live. Page was the ancestor of the Petersburg family, To his first
                            marriage with a Miss Bass were born James, Thad, Lee, and Albert B. (called
                            "Hit"); to his second marriage with a Miss Evans were born Newton and
                            Belle Coleman.
               
                     second of whom by way of a stopover of some years in 
                        Kentucky
                    ; 5 the Prides from 
                        Virginia
                    , by way of 
                        North Carolina
                    ; the Risleys from 
                        New Jersey
                    ; and the Schearmahon and Walker families, of whom no previous findings were made.6 Another member of this group whose name was omitted, but who has every right
                    to be included, was Lemuel Baldwin.7 In the present paper, the account of White
                    Oak Springs and how it grew is continued through the period from 1810 to 1817.8
            
            The ten families named above who settled at White Oak Springs previous to 1810 were bound together by
                    ties of intermarriage and other common interests.9 From the contemporary
                    records, it seems clear that leadership among them reposed in Wolsey Pride and James and Henry
                    Brenton: in the pioneer, Wolsey Pride, by virtue of his ownership of the fort and stockade; in the
                    old veteran of the Revolution and Indian wars, James Brenton, because of the authority 
                  
                     5 Josiah Arnold, a Revolutionary soldier from 
                                Virginia
                            , who is buried in the Arnold graveyard a few miles northeast of Petersburg, was
                            the original immigrant of this name, instead of his son Jeremiah, as was stated in the
                            article cited in Note 2. above. Beulah B. Gray. "History of Jefferson
                            Township", Petersburg Press, June. 1929; Mrs. Roscoe
                            O'Byrne, Soldiers and Patriots of the American Revolution Buried in
                                Indiana (
                                Brookville
                            , Ind., 1938).
                  
                     6 John and Jonathan Walker were land claimants in the DuBois County
                            area (1814-1816), and Isaac and Jonathan were listed as residents of DuBois County in the
                            census of 1820. The conclusion that some members of this family were domiciled around White
                            Oak Springs is based upon numerous items of evidence such as: the signature of Thomas to the
                            White Oak Springs-Rock Ford Ferry road petition. April. 1810; the marriages of Isaac to
                            Susanna Risley, October, 1810, and of Jonathan to Polly Brenton, March, 1811, both girls of
                            White Oak Springs; and the frequent later appearance of the name James Walker on the 
                                Pike
                             County Commissioner's and Court records. From George R.
                            Wilson's History Of DuBois County, we learn that Jonathan Walker
                            did not confine his activities to any one location, as he was famous for his pugilistic
                            prowess "from one end of the Buffalo Trace to the other".
                  
                     7 The name of Lemuel Baldwin appeared first in 1808 on a claim to NW
                            1/4 Sec. 84, Tp.1.N, R8W, which cornered on the White Oak Springs quarter section. It
                            appears on militia and marriage records within the next few years, and, in 1828, disappears
                            completely from the deed records with the sale of the above mentioned quarter section to 
                                Franklin
                             Sawyer. Nothing was learned of Lemuel Baldwin's subsequent
                            whereabouts, or of his possible descendants. Iii, only contemporary of the same name
                            observed on the records was Daniel Baldwin.
                  
                     8 This paper does not conform to the pattern set in the preceding
                            paper. The first dealt with ten families and presented some biography and genealogy relating
                            to their members. The present one deals with more than a hundred families, and the
                            presentation of biography and genealogy relating to all of them is impossible within the
                            limits. All such mnterail has therefore been omitted. In compliance with the suggestion of
                            Miss Esther U. McNitt, head of the Indiana History Division of the State
                            Library, it will be complied later and made available for reference in bound manuscript form
                            in the Indiana State Library and the Petersburg Public Library. For the collection of this
                            body of 
                                Pike
                             County biography and genealogy. which was made by means of personal interviews
                            and correspondence, the authors are indebted to a greater number of descendants than there
                            were original members of the First Families of White Oak Springs. Space forbids therefore
                            any more than general acknowledgment of their aid to the authors in the preparation of this
                            paper and the volume which will be its by-product. To Mies McNitt and to Miss Anna Poucher,
                            head of the Genealogy Division of the State Library, and their assistants, we owe
                            acknowledgment for never-failing attention and invaluable assistance.
                  
                     9 "white Oak Springs" was used to refer both to the
                            Fort site, and to the community which grew up around it. The name is so used in this paper.
                            The smaller unit was the NE ¼ Sec. 28, Tp,1.N, R8W, and the community unit was
                            practically the entire congressional township, lying within the boundaries of the present
                            civil townships of 
                                Washington
                             and 
                                Madison
                             in 
                                Pike
                             County.
               
                     thority of his years, education and experience; and in Justice
                    Henry Brenton as the appointed guardian of the peace and morals of White River
                    Township.
            The leadership of James Brenton continued to prevail in 1810, as witness the record of the Court of
                    Common Pleas, 
                        Knox
                     County, March term:
            
                    The petition of James Brenton and others, citizens of White River Township,
                        praying for reasons stated therein that the township may be divided, and that all that part of
                        said township which lies east of Conger's Creek may be erected into a new township.
                        Ordered that the same be, and it is divided agreeable to the prayer of said petition to be known
                        by the name of 
                            Madison
                         Township, but the division of White River Township is not to
                        affect the ensuing election.10
               
                
            Changes of more importance, however, than that of township division were imminent at White Oak
                    Springs. New life and new leadership were in prospect, for already on their way from 
                        North Carolina
                     (April, 1810) were resourceful men of will and disposition to make "the 
                        Ohio
                     country," and as it turned out, White Oak Springs, their sphere of future
                    influence and action. Not even such worthies as Wolsey Pride, James Brenton or Henry Brenton could
                    hope to maintain a monopoly of prestige in the presence of Hosea Smith, Moses Harrell, and Joab
                        Chappell.11
            
            For they it was, with families and friends to the number of twenty, who arrived at White Oak Springs
                    in June, 1810, the vanguard of a migration which continued for over a decade12
                    and literally transplanted a population from the piney groves and coastal swamps of the Albemarle
                    shores to the hardwood forests and the productive virgin soils of the White
                    River valley.
            The company of Messrs. Smith, Harrell, Chappell et al. was from 
                        Perquimans
                     County, and comprised a representative 
                  
                     10 This division failed also to take immediate effect for other than
                            election purposes, as it was in a petition to the 
                                Knox
                             County Court, April term, 1810, that the "undersigned householders of
                            the township of White River" prayed for a road from
                            "White Oak Springs to the Rock Ford Ferry", the
                            "undersigned" being a fairly complete roster of the citizens of White Oak
                            Springs. "The First Families of White Oak Springs", loc.
                            cit., 290-316.
                  
                     11 Twenty-three letters written by Hosea Smith at White Oak Springs to
                            relatives in 
                                Perquimans
                             County over the period 1810 to 1823 are in the possession of Mrs. Claud Uland,
                            616 No. Twelfth St., 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana. Mrs. Uland is a descendant of Hosea Smith. For the use of a copy of
                            these letters in preparation of this paper we are indebted to the kindness of Mr. and Mrs.
                            Fred V. Chew of 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind.
                  
                     12 In addition to the immigrants named in the body of this paper, the
                            following also come from 
                                Perquimans
                             County to 
                                Pike
                             County: 1820, Jessie Alexander (brother to Charles, Ashberry and Isaac) and
                            wife. Maria; by 1821, William Chappell and Josiah Chappell (nephews of Jacob and Joab
                            Chappell) and the latter's wife, Esther Perry Chappell; by 1823 Nixon Lamb, brother
                            to Stanton.
               
                     group of its inter-related 
                        Quaker
                     families.13 A list of those who are known to have completed the
                    journey to White Oak Springs follows:
            
               
                  Hosea Smith (b. 
                                Pasquotank
                             Co., N.C., 1773)
               Mrs. Hosea Smith (Huldah Harrell Wilson, widow of Jonathan Wilson, b. Nansemond Co., Vir.,
                        1774)
               Theophila Smith (12 yrs. old, b. 
                            Perquimans
                         Co., N.C.)
               Henry Smith (8 yrs. old, by 
                            Perquimans
                         Co.)
               Onias Smith (5 yrs. old, b. 
                            Perquimans
                         Co.)
               Stanton Lamb (8 yrs. old, son of Hosea Smith's widowed sister, Lovey Smith Lamb)
               Moses Harrell (unmarried; b. Nansemond Co., Vir., 1789)
               Jason Harrell (unmarried; brother of Mrs. Hosea Smith; d. at White Oak Springs, 1823)
               Joab Chappell (b. 
                            Perquimans
                         Co., 1781)
               Mrs. Joab Chappell (Elizabeth Elliott; b. 1787)
               Peninah Chappell (1 yr. old)
               Gausby Elliott (did not remain at White Oak Springs)
               Jacob Price (d. at White Oak Springs, 1814)
            
            Hosea Smith was an earnest believer in divine guidance, and his arrival at White Oak Springs must
                    have confirmed his faith in the wisdom of the Almighty. He felt an affinity for the place from the
                    moment he laid eyes on it. It evoked his pride and devotion as if endowed with personality. He
                    reached his destination on June 5, 1810, and on June 14 he wrote to his brother John: "I
                    can inform the [thee] now that I have got home… . I have purchased Land at this place
                    caled [sic] the White Oak Springs … . I like the Land the best I ever
                    saw … ."14
            
            The uneasy anticipation of Indian hostilities which was being felt by settlers on all the Indiana
                    frontiers was shared by those at White Oak Springs, and it is doubtful if any of the company of
                    Hosea Smith took immediate steps toward independent settlement. There were cabins enough for a dozen
                    families within the protection of the stockade. Joab Chappell shared the cultivation and the profits
                    of the growing crops, and in October Moses Harrell opened a school. Hosea Smith urged his friends
                    and relatives in 
                        North Carolina
                     to come, saying that, "they might better themselves if they had not one Dollar
                    after geting hear [sic]."
            White Oak Springs was beginning to hear the buzz of 
                  
                     13 For a picturesque description of this civilization, see Catherine
                            Seyton Albertson, In Ancient Albemarle (Raleigh, N.C., 1914).
                  
                     14 Hosea Smith to John Smith. June 5, 1810. (Hosea Smith letters. See
                            Note 11 above.)
               
                     the "westward swarming," to use Carl
                    Sandburg's phrase, and to see and be a part of "what the, moon saw" on
                    the Buffalo Trace. "There hath abundance of people moved in this fall. Travellers from all
                    parts seem to be a moveing daily," Hosea Smith Wrote in November, 1810, "some to
                    Plattoker [Patoka], some over the 
                        Wabash
                     on the Donation, some on busroe settlement, an abundance to the new purchase, and a
                    number over the 
                        Mississippi
                     and some up the Misseory to St. Lewis and different parts."15
            
            The abundance of people who moved into White Oak Springs in the fall of 1810 was followed by others
                    in each succeeding year. Exact dates and details of their coming have not been preserved, however,
                    as were those of Hosea Smith's, and it may be learned who they were only from a search of
                    public and private records, and by inquiry into the various family traditions current among their
                    descendants. From such sources a list has been compiled. In Township 1 North, Range 8 West, which
                    was the White Oak Springs congressional township, 
                        United States
                     land claimants up to 1817, with their former locations and racial orogins if known,
                        were16:
            
               
                  1807
                  Wolsey Prides17
                  
                  NW
                  27
                  Vir., N. C.
               
               
                  
                  Geo. Wallace Jr.
                  SW
                  27
                  
               
               
                  
                  Paul Tislow
                  NE
                  29
                  Pa., Ky. (German)
               
               
                  
                  Henry Brenton
                  SE
                  19
                  Vir., Mercer Co., Ky.
               
               
                  
                  James Brenton
                  NW
                  28
                  " " " "
               
               
                  1808
                  Silas Risley
                  NE
                  27
                  
                            
                                New Jersey
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                  Wosley Pride
                  NE
                  28
                  
               
               
                  
                  Lemuel Baldwin
                  NW
                  34
                  
               
               
                  1810
                  James Lindsay
                  SW
                  19
                  
                     
                                Warren
                             Co., Ky. (Irish)
               
            
            
               
                  15 "Plattoker" probably meant Patoka River. The "Donation" was evident);] the 
                            Vincennes
                         Donation Tract, which comprised more than 100,000 acres on both sides the 
                            Wabash
                         set aside by Acts of Congress of August 29th, 1788, and March 8. 1791, for
                        "granting of lands to the inhabitants and settlers at 
                            Vincennes
                         sad the 
                            Illinois
                         country and for confirming them in their possessions".
                        "Busroe" no doubt means Busseron Township. 
                            Knox
                         County, which was laid out in 1810. and was already in process of settlement by
                        Shakers from 
                            Massachusetts
                         and 
                            Ohio
                        . The "new purchase" could not have been, of course, the Indian
                        cession of 1818. which by custom has been granted the sole right to the title "The New
                        Purchase"; it could have been the cession of 1809, made by the 
                            Delaware
                        . Eel River, Pottawatomie and Miami tribes. This was called the
                        Harrison Purchase and extended northeast of the 
                            Vincennes
                         Tract to the "Ten O'clock Line".
               
                  16 Former locations named are for the most part authenticated by family
                        tradition and private records. A few however are inferred from the evidence of public records.
                        Data, unless otherwise noted, is taken from the public records of 
                            Pike
                         County. For kindly assistance in finding and collecting it, the authors are
                        indebted to the 
                            Pike
                         County officers contemporary with the research, and especially to Mrs. Esta
                        Garland, deputy recorder.
               
                  17 "The First Famiiles of White Oak Spring", loc. cit.,
                        290-818.
            
            
            
               
                  1812
                  Hosea Smith
                  SE
                  28
                  
                     
                                Perquimans
                             Co., N. C.
               
               
                  
                  Aaron Decker18
                  
                  S fr.
                  6&7, E fr. 7
                  
               
               
                  
                  James Brenton
                  SW
                  21
                  
               
               
                  1813
                  Henry Miley
                  NW
                  26
                  Pa. (German)
               
               
                  
                  Moses Harrell
                  SE
                  27
                  Nansemond Co., Vir. (English)
               
               
                  
                  John Coonrod
                  SE
                  22
                  
                     
                                Lancaster
                             Co., Pa., and Jefferson Co., Ky. (German)
               
               
                  1814
                  John Coonrod
                  NW
                  22
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  SW 22
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                  Bryant D. Savarns
                  NE
                  26
                  
               
               
                  
                  Henry Miley Jr.
                  SW
                  23
                  
                     
                                Pennsylvania
                             (German)
               
               
                  
                  Henry Brenton
                  E½
                  NE 30
                  
               
               
                  
                  Hosea Smith
                  NE
                  33
                  
               
               
                  
                  Paul Tislow
                  NW
                  35
                  
               
               
                  
                  Hosea Smith
                  SE
                  33
                  
               
               
                  
                  Paul Tislow
                  NE
                  34
                  
               
               
                  1815
                  Daniel Coonrod
                  NW
                  23
                  Pa. and Ky. (German)
               
               
                  
                  David Hornaday
                  E½
                  SW 28
                  Chatham Co. N. C. (English)
               
               
                  
                  Breeding & Ewing19
                  
                  NW
                  29
                  
               
               
                  
                  David Wease20
                  
                  SW
                  29
                  Hampshire Co., Vir.
               
               
                  
                  Joshua Selby
                  SE
                  31
                  
               
               
                  
                  David Leonard
                  S fr.
                  SE 15
                  
               
               
                  
                  Wm. Crayton
                  NW
                  33
                  
               
               
                  
                  John Cummings
                  NW
                  13
                  
               
               
                  
                  Breeding & Ewing
                  SW
                  20
                  Vir. or N. C., or both
               
               
                  
                  Thomas' J. Withers21
                  
                  SE
                  20
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                     
                                Campbell
                             & Harrell
                  NE
                  21
                  
               
               
                  
                  Moses Harrell
                  SE
                  21
                  
               
            
            
               
                  18 Aaron Decker was a member of the 
                            Virginia
                         family of that name which came to 
                            Knox
                         County about 1796. He was at this time operating the old ferry across
                            White River on the Buffalo Trace which was started by Joshua Harbin in
                        1797. His land claim was to a few acres adjoining the French grant of Toussaint DuBois, which
                        was allowed in 1806, and described as "opposite Harbin's Ferry". Did
                        Aaron Decker move the Ferry landing from its old location on the DuBois claim to his own acres?
                        It seems possible.
               
                  19 Nathaniel Ewing was receiver of the public monies of the 
                            United States
                         Land Office from 1807 to 1824. He made 
                            Vincennes
                         his home until his death in 1846, and was an active politician and anti-slavery
                        leader. Henry Cauthron, History of the City of 
                                Vincennes
                            
                  . Nathaniel Breeding was Ewing's nephew and the two did business
                        in partnership until the latter's death in 1818, speculating in land in most of the
                        southern Indiana counties. Neither ever lived at White Oak Springs.
               
                  20 There is no tradition among David Wease's descendants as to
                        his previous location. The name is found on public records in but one other location previous to
                        the date of settlement at White Oaks Springs. Adam Wease, Sr., Adam Wease, Jr., Michael Wease,
                        John Wease and Jacob Wease were listed as householders, census of 1790, in Hampshire County, 
                            Virginia
                         (later West 
                            Virginia
                        ). Two of the above, or others of the same name, were Revolutionary soldiers, Adam
                        Wease in the Romney Militia, and one Michael, whose name is recorded Weese,
                        Wease, and Wieste in the Eighth Va. Reg., Continental Line. John H.
                        Gwathmey, Historical Register Virginians in the Revolution
                                (
                     Richmond, Virginia
                  , 1938).
               
                  21 A large Withers family (also spelled Weathers) lived
                        in several counties of both 
                            Virginia
                         and 
                            North Carolina
                         in Revolutionary times. Laban Mile Hoffman. Our Kin (Charlotte,
                        N.C., 1916). The White Oak Springs immigrant may have been connected with this family but
                        further research would be necessary to show it.
            
            
            
               
                  
                  John Coonrod
                  NW
                  22
                  
               
               
                  
                  David Kinman
                  SE
                  32
                  
                     
                                Greene
                             Co. 
                                Georgia
                            
                  
               
               
                  1816
                  Paul Tislow
                  NE
                  35
                  
               
               
                  
                  Tarlton Boren
                  E½
                  SW 32
                  
               
               
                  
                  Thomas J. Withers
                  NE
                  32
                  
                     
                                Halifax
                             Co., N. C. (Scotch-Irish)
               
               
                  
                  James 
                                Campbell
                            
                  
                  SW
                  26
                  
               
            
            Traditions and records other than land entries attest the presence also at White Oak Springs of the
                    following, all of whom remained and became citizens of Petersburg, or residents of nearby farms:
            
               
                  1811
                  Charles Alexander
                  Tyrell Co., N. C.
               
               
                  1812 or 1813
                  Henry Marrich and family
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
               
               
                  
                  Malachi Harrick (14 yrs. old)
                  
               
               
                  
                  Thomas C. and Rachel Wright Stewart
                  
                     
                                Virginia
                             and 
                                Warren
                             County, Ky.
               
               
                  
                  Elijah Lane
                  Jefferson Co., Ky.
               
               
                  1815
                  Archibald 
                                Campbell
                            
                  
                  
                     
                                Halifax
                             Co., N.C. (Scotch-Irish
               
               
                  
                  Henry K. 
                                Campbell
                            
                  
                  " " " " "
               
               
                  
                  David Parks
                  
               
               
                  
                  Thomas Milbourn
                  
               
               
                  1816
                  J. W. Loan
                  Breckenridge Co., Ky.
               
               
                  
                  Isabella Loan
                  
                     
                                Shelby
                             Co., Ky.
               
               
                  
                  Thomas Meade and family
                  
                            
                                North Carolina
                            
                        
               
            
            Until 1813, there were no land entries made in the 
                        Pike
                     County area outside White Oak Springs. Mention must be made, however, before going
                    further, of lands held by right of ancient grants—French, British, 
                        United States
                     and 
                        United States
                     Military. Thirty-two tracts of land from 50 to 400 acres each, about 6,000 acres in
                    all, were so held, all except three lying in the valley of Conger's Creek and its forks
                    within the area of the present 
                        Clay
                     and 
                        Madison
                     Townships of 
                        Pike
                     County (Township 1 North, Range 9 West). In 1806 and 1807 the validity of these grants
                    was confirmed by the 
                        United States
                     upon recommendation of the land commissioners of Indiana Territory and their owners
                    given legal title to their lands. The number of owners (25), plus the contiguous situations of their
                    lands, combine to suggest the existence of a community contemporary with and comparable in size to
                    that at White Oak Springs. Exhaustive inquiry  has not been made
                    into the history of the occupation of these tracts, but cursory investigation reveals that more than
                    half of them were held by lifelong residents of 
                        Vincennes
                     and the area comprising the present townships of Harrison, Johnson, and Decker of 
                        Knox
                     County. Families of the names of Pea, Glass, Frederick, and Catt, which are undoubtedly
                    descended from the holders of the ancient grants, have occupied the Conger's Creek vicinity
                    for generations; but, except in the case of Jacob Pea and possibly the Fredericks, no evidence has
                    been found that the original owners were occupying their grants in the period covered by this paper.
                    it seems fair to conclude therefore that probably fewer than a dozen holders of ancient grants in
                    the 
                        Pike
                     County area could have been living on the 6,000 acres so held in the period of the
                    flourishing of White Oak Springs.22
            
            In 1813 and the following years up to 1817, more than 
                  
                     22 Mr. Samuel E. Dillin, Attorney, of Petersburg kindly furnished the
                            following complete list of ancient grant-holders in the 
                                Pike
                             County area, having compiled the names from the abstract files of his legal
                            firm. Additional Information and spelling variants In parentheses are taken from the report
                            of the land commissioners of Indiana Territory to the Secretary of the Treasury, dated
                            January 8, 1807. on land climants in the District of 
                                Vincennes
                            , American State Papers, I, Public Lands. All the grants
                            except the last three listed lay within Tp.1.N, R9W. 
                        
                           Survey Number
                           Name of Claimant
                           No. of Acres
                           Within Secton Nos.
                        
                        
                           1
                           Sebastian Frederick
                           300
                           18 & 19
                        
                        
                           2
                           Heirs of John Glass
                           300
                           20
                        
                        
                           3
                           Busseron heirs (3. 4, and 5 allowed to
                           340.27
                           31 & 30
                        
                        
                           4
                           Busseron heirs Toussaint Du Bois)
                           300
                           31 & 30
                        
                        
                           5
                           Busseron heirs
                           204.18
                           31 & 30
                        
                        
                           6
                           Busseron heirs
                           50
                           27 & 32
                        
                        
                           7
                           Busseron heirs
                           50
                           27 & 82
                        
                        
                           8
                           Phillip Catt (Christian Hall, original claimant)
                           50
                           20
                        
                        
                           9
                           John Marshall (John Harbin, original claimant)
                           300
                           20, 21, 28 & 29
                        
                        
                           10
                           George Leech
                           100
                           21 & 28
                        
                        
                           11
                           Lewis Frederick
                           234.15
                           21, 28 & 29
                        
                        
                           12
                           Sebastian Frederick
                           300
                           21, 28 & 38
                        
                        
                           13
                           Phillip Catt
                           300
                           21 & 27
                        
                        
                           14
                           Phillip Catt
                           300
                           26 & 27
                        
                        
                           15
                           Wm. Reedy
                           50
                           22
                        
                        
                           16
                           John Pea (Jacob Pea, original claimant)
                           300
                           26 & 27
                        
                        
                           17
                           Isaac Wilson
                           100
                           26 & 35
                        
                        
                           18
                           Albert Wilson heirs
                           120
                           26
                        
                        
                           19
                           John Pea in the right of Berryain Brandoin)
                           100
                           23
                        
                        
                           24
                           Jacob Pea in the right of Antonia Catty (Antoine Caty)
                           50
                           26
                        
                        
                           25
                           Henry Pea in the right of Chas. Bonnette (Bonn eau)
                           50
                           22 & 23
                        
                        
                           37
                           Jacoh Pea in the right of Micnaek Bouleain (Bordeleau)
                           50
                           23
                        
                        
                           49
                           Jacob Pea
                           100
                           25 & 26
                        
                        
                           52
                           James Fansby in the right of Wm. Faneby (Fernsley)
                           400
                           25
                        
                        
                           225
                           Jacob Howell
                           100
                           25, 26, 30 & 31
                        
                        
                           146
                           Joshua Harbin heirs
                           300
                           29 & 32
                        
                        
                           233
                           Wm. McIntosh (Louis Plouchon, original claimant)
                           186
                           33 & 34
                        
                        
                           Location no.
                           
                           
                           
                        
                        
                           9
                           Frederick Lindy
                           200
                           30 & 31
                        
                      The following three grants lay almost entirely within the later area of Washington
                            Township, 
                                Pike
                             County:
                        James Patton (Jonathan Conger, original claimant) 400 acres within Sections 6
                                    & 7. Tp.1N. R7W. and within Sections 1 & 12, Tp.1N, R8W. and within
                                    Sections 6 & 7, Tp. 1N, R7W and Secs. 1 & 12, Tp.1N. R8W.
                        Thomas Barton (Amable Pearou, original claimant) 204 acres within Sections 7
                                    & 18, Tp.1N, R8W.
                        Troussaint DuBois, 50 acres, within Section 7. Tp.1N. R9W and Seca. 1 &
                                    21, Tp, 1N, R8W.
                     
                  
               
                     a dozen land entries were made in the area of the later
                    Jefferson Township, 
                        Pike
                     County, and the settlement was named Highbanks. Its settlers were:
            
               
                  
                  
                  (in Tp.1N, R7W)
                  
               
               
                  1813
                  Jeremiah 'Arnold
                  SW 9
                  from 
                                Virginia
                            
                  
               
               
                  
                  Levi Kinman
                  S fr. 11
                  
                     
                                Greene
                             Co., Ga.
               
               
                  
                  " "
                  S fr. 14
                  " " "
               
               
                  
                  Hiram Kinman
                  NW 24
                  " " "
               
               
                  1815
                  Geo. Rapp & Associates23
                  
                  NW 8
                  Posey Co., Ind.
               
               
                  1816
                  James Kinman
                  W fr. 10
                  
                     
                                Greene
                             Co., Ga.
               
               
                  
                  Randle Lett
                  " " 13
                  
                     
                                Georgia
                             (French)
               
               
                  
                  " "
                  SEfr.14
                  
               
               
                  
                  Alexander McCain
                  SW 15
                  
               
               
                  
                  George Teverbaugh24
                  
                  SW 27
                  Hampshire Co., Vir.
               
               
                  
                  
                  (in Tp.1N, R6W)
                  
               
               
                  1814
                  Wosley Pride
                  NW 18
                  
               
               
                  
                  Thomas Pride
                  NE 17
                  
               
               
                  
                  Ebenezer Case
                  S fr. 7
                  
               
               
                  
                  John Case
                  SW 18
                  
               
               
                  1815
                  Paul Tislow
                  SE 18
                  
               
               
                  1816
                  James Brenton
                  SE 32
                  
               
               
                  
                  " "
                  SE31
                  
               
            
            Outside the neighborhoods of White Oak Springs and Highbanks, there were but seven scattered land
                    claims in the 
                        Pike
                     County area in the territorial period of Indiana. It is no wonder that so many of the
                    old tales begin, "My folks moved to 
                        Pike
                     County when it was nothing but a great big woods." These claimants and their
                    lands were:
            
               
                  
                  
                  (in Tp.1S R8W, later Littles)
               
               
                  1814
                  Robert Brenton
                  W½ SW 27
               
               
                  
                  Sally Jerrell
                  NE and NW 34
               
               
                  1815
                  James Hedges
                  SE 26
               
               
                  1816
                  John Wyatt
                  E½ SE 28 (in Tp.1S R9W, later Union)
               
               
                  1814
                  Phillip Defendoll
                  NE & NW 5
               
               
                  1815
                  Benjamin Reynolds
                  NE 4
               
            
            Circumstances suggest, and, in several instances, tradition 
                  
                     23 "George Rapp and Associates" was the name under
                            which the Harmonie Community of 
                                Posey County
                             transacted business. J. S. Duss. George Rapp and His
                            Associates (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1914); George Browning Lockwood. The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Communities (
                                Marion
                            , Indiana. 1902).
                  
                     24 The presumption is that George Teverbough was a member of the
                            family of that name which settled in the Harrison Township area, 
                                Knox
                             County, about 1790. He married Patience Severna (1811), daughter of Bryant
                            Savarns (Severna) of White Oak Springs. (Members of the latter family seldom spelled their
                            name the same way twice. Sovereigns was another version.)
                  
               
                     verifies, that there were others in addition to those named on
                    the foregoing lists who came to White Oak Springs for temporary residence, the protection of the
                    Fort, the trans-action of business, or for the pleasure of visiting friends and relatives. A few had
                    made permanent settlement on lands to which they entered claim later, others were only temporarily
                    located. From around Highbanks, and the Conger's Creek vicinity, from situations isolated
                    from neighborhoods, and from the far distant areas of the later DuBois and Gibson Counties, they
                    converged upon White Oak Springs. Among them were:
            
               
                  Arrival in vicinity of White Oak Springs25
                  
                  Former location
                  Permanent Settlement
               
               
                  1810
                  John Wease26
                  
                  Hampshire Co., Vir.
                  Petersburg
               
               
                  
                  Job Wease26
                  
                  " " "
                  
               
               
                  
                  Jacob Pancake27
                  
                  ½Hampshire Co., Vir. 
                                Monroe
                             Tp., 
                                Pike
                             Co.
                  
               
               
                  
                  Joseph Pancake27
                  
                  and
                  
               
               
                  
                  Dorothy Pancake27
                  
                  Bulleit Co., Ky.
                  
               
               
                  1811
                  John Johnson28
                  
                  
                            
                                Virginia
                            
                        
                  Petersburg
               
               
                  
                  Ashberry Alexander
                  Tyrell Co., N.C.
                  Du Bois County
               
               
                  
                  John Chambers29
                  
                  Hampshire Co., Vir.
                  Petersburg
               
               
                  
                  John Butler30
                  
                  Du Bois Co.
                  
               
               
                  
                  James 
                                Butler
                            
                  
                  " " "
                  
               
            
            
               
                  25 Almost all these dates are the first recorded dates referring to the
                        families named. Traditional dates, many of which are undoubtedly correct, are met with earlier.
               
                  26 These men were brothers of David Wease (See Note 20 above). John was a
                        land claimant in 1817 to SW 1/4 Section 23, Tp.1N, R8W. He was granted a 
                            Knox
                         County license to marry Polly Jarrald on July 17, 1810. Job was granted a 
                            Pike
                         County license to marry Rachel Harbison on September 6, 1817. Mary Ann Weave, their
                        sister, married Zechariah Selby.
               
                  27 Two ancient grants made to members of this family were confirmed in
                        1806 and 1807. Title to 225 acres of 
                            Knox
                         County lands was given to Jacob, Joseph, and Dorothy, and title to 300 acres on Marie Creek to Joseph. The three named were brothers and sisters, members of a
                        large family which included also Rachel (
                            Montgomery
                        ), Margaret, a spinster, and William. One family tradition has it that they came
                        from Bullitt County. 
                            Kentucky
                         (another, Mercer County), but the authors believe that they came originally from
                        Hampshire County, 
                            Virginia
                        . The name, not found elsewhere. was common before 1800 in the area which forms the
                        present West 
                            Virginia
                         County of Hampshire (and which is only a fractional part of the original 
                            Virginia
                         County of 1790). Revolutionary soldiers of Hampshire County included one John
                        Pancake and two Joseph Pancakes. Sr. and Jr. A village of Pancake commemorates their former
                        presence there to this day.
               
                  28 There were at least three men of this name on territorial records, and
                        it has not been possible to identify the references to the John Johnson who moved to White Oak
                        Springs in 1810 or 1811, became agent for 
                            Pike
                         County in 1817 and represented 
                            Pike
                         County in the State Legislature for eight years after its organization. He is
                        chiefly notable as the grandfather of John W. Foster, probably the most distinguished man ever
                        born in 
                            Pike
                         County, having served the American public as lawyer, soldier, diplomat, editor,
                        Secretary of State, professor And author.
               
                  29 John Chambers arrived in 
                            Knox
                         County, according to tradition, in 1809. He was granted a Revolutionary pension as
                        a citizen of 
                            Gibson County
                         in 1818, and was recorded as a citizen of 
                            Pike
                         County in 1820. He entered Revolutionary service in Hampshire County, 
                            Virginia
                        , but a study of the name of Chambers on the census of 1790 suggests that Greenbrier
                        County was the family's place of residence.
               
                  30 John and James 
                            Butler
                         were early settlers in the neighborhood of the later Hayesville, DuBois County. One
                        or the other, or both, had a fortified cabin around
            
            
            
               
                  
                  John Butler Jr.
                  
                  Petersburg
               
               
                  
                  Jacob Harbison31
                  
                  
                            
                                South Carolina
                            
                        
                  Du Bois Co.
               
               
                  1812
                  Joshua Selby
                  
                     
                                Maryland
                             & Ky.
                  
                     
                                Madison
                             Tp., 
                                Pike
                             Co.
               
               
                  
                  Isaiah Gladish32
                  
                  
                     
                                Richmond
                             Co., N.C.
                  
               
               
                  1813
                  David Kinman
                  Green Co., Ga.
                  Petersbug
               
               
                  
                  Zephaniah Selby
                  
                     
                                Maryland
                             & Ky.
                  
                     
                                Madison
                             Tp., 
                                Pike
                             Co.
               
               
                  
                  Zachariah Selby
                  " " "
                  " " " "
               
               
                  
                  Jeremiah Selby
                  " " "
                  " " " "
               
               
                  
                  James Crow
                  
                     
                                Georgia
                             & 
                                Kentucky
                            
                  
                  Hazelton, Gibson Co.
               
               
                  
                  James Ashby33
                  
                  Hampshire Co., Vir.
                  Patoka Tp., 
                                Pike
                             Co.
               
               
                  
                  Benj. Ashby
                  " " "
                  " " " "
               
               
                  
                  Warner Ashby
                  " " "
                  " " " "
               
               
                  1814
                  Jeremiah Gladish
                  
                     
                                Richmond
                             Co., N.C.
                  
                     
                                Madison
                             Tp., 
                                Pike
                             Co.
               
               
                  1815
                  Isaac Alexander & Wife34
                  
                  Tyrell Co., N.C.
                  Du Bois Co.
               
               
                  
                  Ashberry Alexandder (3 yrs. old)
                  " " "
                  " " "
               
               
                  
                  James Dillin
                  Tyrell Co., N.C.
                  " " "
               
               
                  
                  Samuel Dillin
                  " " "
                  " " "
               
               
                  
                  Brittaina Dillin
                  " " "
                  " " "
               
               
                  
                  Jacob Chappell & wife35
                  
                  
                     
                                Perquimans
                             Co., N.C.
                  
                     
                                Monroe
                             Tp., 
                                Pike
                             Co.
               
            
            
               1812 which was called Ft. 
                            Butler
                        . They were not land owners, but were listed as householders in DuBois County in the
                        census of 1820 and that of 1830. There was a John Butler, however, who was continuously on 
                            Pike
                         County records until 1836. He may have been the same who married Peggy Harbison on
                        November 7. 1809, and who signed himself John 
                            Butler
                        , Jr., to various documents. He was perhaps a on of the other John 
                            Butler
                        . For information in regard to the DuBois County residents, see Wilson, DuBois County.
               
                  31 Jacob Harbison was the son of James Harbison, a Revolutionary soldier
                        from 
                            South Carolina
                         who settled in the Mudholes neighborhood. Jacob made land claims in the DuBois
                        County area in 1818 and was a resident of that county in 1820. He married a daughter of James
                        Brenton of White Oak Springs, and a study of his militia and jury service, and other activities,
                        indicates that White Oak Springs was his second home, if not, for a period, his first.
               
                  32 This Isaiah Gladish is believed to have been a brother of Jeremiah
                        Gladish, which contradicts the family tradition that Jeremiah.' brother Isaiah remained
                        in 
                            North Carolina
                         when his five brothers emigrated to 
                            Georgia
                        . 
                            Kentucky
                        , and Indiana. A search of early records in all states reveals no family or person
                        of this name except that of Richard Gladish (Gladdis) of 
                            Richmond
                         County, 
                            North Carolina
                        , who was the father of Jeremiah of White Oak Springs, and probably of this Isaiah
                        Gladish.
               
                  33 The conclusion that the Ashbys came from Hampshire County, 
                            Virginia
                        , is based upon a study of the name Ashby in the census lists of
                        1790. The coincidence of their names and those of others who came into the 
                            Pike
                         and DuBois County area in the period 1800 to 1830, with the names on the list of
                        Hampshire County residents, census of 1790 and other contemporary records, suggests that there
                        was a large migration of trans-Allegbany 
                            Virginia
                         pioneers into the area of 
                            Pike
                         and DuBois Counties. Tradition and private records of the Davisson family of 
                            Pike
                         County support this supposition, but, as most of these families settled outside
                        White Oak Springs, or came into the area later than the period covered in this paper, no inquiry
                        has been made and no other evidence can be cited than that of the names on public records common
                        to both localities. They are: Wease. Chambers, Pancake, Davisson, Welton. Radcliffe. Teverbaugh. 
                            Butler
                        , Milbourn, Miles, Shook, Tevault. Risley, Corn, Arnold. Leonard. and MacBride.
               
                  34 Mrs, Alexander was Charlotte Hunnings Dillin before her marriage to
                        Isaac Alexander. She was the widow of Benjamin Dillin, a Revolutionary soldier of Tyrell County, 
                            North Carolina
                        , and the mother of his four minor children, named above.
               
                  35 Mrs. Chappell was Rachel Lane Rogerson, a widow, before her marriage to
                        Jacob Chappell. She is known to have had five children by her first marriage, but only the three
                        named above are known to have come to Indiana. The names or presence of the other two sons have
                        not been found registered on any rcord.
            
            
            
               MAP II. 
                            Knox
                         County area south of White River and the Buffalo Trace,
                        designated White River Township in 1804; with subsequent sub-divisions up
                        to 1810. Population, U. S. census, 1810. 
                            Pike
                         County boundaries as of 1940 indicated by dotted line. Scale 24 miles to 1
                    inch.
            
            
            
               
                  
                  Job Chappell (2 yrs. old)
                  
                     
                                Perquimans
                             Co., N.C.
                  
                     
                                Monroe
                             Tp., 
                                Pike
                             Co.
               
               
                  
                  Ann Rogerson
                  " " "
                  " " " "
               
               
                  
                  Solomon Rogerson
                  " " "
                  " " " "
               
               
                  
                  Mary (Polly) Rogerson
                  " " "
                  " " " "
               
               
                  
                  Zachariah Dillin
                  Tyrell Co., N.C.
                  Du Bois Co.
               
               
                  1816
                  Elijah Malott & family
                  Jefferson Co., Ky.
                  
                     
                                Madison
                             Tp., 
                                Pike
                             Co.
               
            
            The names cited above do not of course represent a census of the population of the 
                        Pike
                     County area. In the first place, in the cases of land claimants and others, only family
                    heads are named. Moreover, there are surely unavoidable omissions of unrecorded transients and of
                    permanent settlers who failed to register their presence until a later period. An estimate may be
                    made however of the total number of persons represented by the hundred and some single men and
                    family heads on the lists. A study of such an estimate against the background of the official
                    enumerations for White River and 
                        Madison
                     Townships in 1810, and for 
                        Gibson County
                     in 1815, reveals no glaring incongruities. There is fair reason to believe that a
                    fairly good accounting has been made by family names of the population of the 
                        Pike
                     County area in the territorial period. (See Maps II and III.)36
            
            The compilation of the above names and dates was by no means the dull task that their bare
                    statistical look suggests, for in the process of the research, the persons behind the names took on
                    personality, dates connoted significant events, and life at White Oak Springs became focussed
                    closely enough to take on a reality to the senses. For what the authors can impart and share of the
                    satisfaction and delight they have had in this recreation, they submit the following summaries and
                    samples of their research.
            As a result of the unsettled questions between Governor Harrison and the Indian tribes, the year 1811
                    was about the most unfavorable year that immigrants could have chosen to come into Indiana
                    Territory. Hardy souls came nevertheless 
                  
                     36 Miss Dorothy Ryker, of the editorial staff of the Indiana
                            Historical Bureau. furnished copies of court orders and territorial acts affecting township
                            boundaries of 
                                Knox
                             County, from which Map II was constructed. The records used included: Executive Journal, Indiana Territory. Feb. 3, 1801; Record of Court of
                            General Quarter Sessions, 
                                Knox
                             County, 1801-1805, February term, 1801, p. 4, and February term, 1804, 67:
                            Record of Court of Common Pleas. 
                                Knox
                             County, 1807-1810, November term. 1807, 64-65: Acts of Indiana Territory, 1808,
                            3: Record of Court of Common Pleas, 
                                Knox
                             County, 1807-1810, March term, 1810, 233.
               
                    
                    
                  MAP III. 
                                Gibson County
                            , settlements and roads, 1815. Population as of territorial census of 1815 was
                            5,330. 
                                Pike
                             County boundaries as of 1940 indicated by dotted line. Scale 24 miles to 1
                            inch.
               
                     and a few stopped at White Oak Springs. William and Keziah Ball
                    Gray arrived from 
                        Virginia
                     and took up their residence at the Fort. Charles and Ashberry Alexander, neighbors of
                    Hosea Smith's grandmother, arrived from Tyrell County, 
                        North Carolina
                    . Joab Chappell took his family to his chosen location six miles east on the Trace
                    (SEC31, Tp.1N R6W); but they became apprehensive of Indian attack, and shortly rejoined the group at
                    the Fort.
            When Governor Harrison mustered the militia for his fall campaign in September, 1811, the following
                    members of the AVhite Oak Springs neighborhood were assigned to service in Col. Luke
                        Decker's37 battalion under Captain Walter Wilson38 of 
                        Vincennes
                     and Lieutenant Benjamin Beckes39 of Harrison Township, 
                        Knox
                     County:40
            
            
               Daniel Risley, Corporal
               Peter Brenton, Corporal
               William Brenton
               Wolsey Pride
               Robert Brenton
               William Pride
               Joab Chappell
               John Risley
               Jonathan Walker
               Jacob Harbison
               James Walker
               Isaac Walker
               Abraham Pea
            
            Members of the same company who moved to White Oak Springs after the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     were: 
                  Thomas J. Withers, Sergeant
                  John Chambers
                  Thomas Milbourn
               
            
            The performance of Captain Wilson's company of militia at the battle of Tippecanoe was
                    specifically commended by General Harrison in his official dispatch to the Secretary of 
                  
                     37 Luke Decker was a member of the 
                                Vincennes
                             family of that name (Note 18 above); Goodspeed's History
                                of 
                                    Knox
                                 and 
                                    Daviess
                                 Counties (
                                Chicago
                            . 1886).
                  
                     38 Captain Wilson was General Harrison's confidential
                            messenger In his negotiations with Tecumseh. He served in the militia of 
                                Knox
                             County from 1802 on. in every grade of service. He was also a Justice of the
                            Peace of 
                                Knox
                             County.
                  
                     39 Benjamin Beckes was a well-to-do farmer who lived near 
                                Vincennes
                            . He served conspicuously in the Indiana Militia over a long period of years.
                                History of 
                                    Knox
                                 and 
                                    Daviess
                                 Counties; Cauthorne. History of the City of 
                                    Vincennes
                                
                     .
                  
                     40 These names appear on the payroll of Captain Wilson's
                            Company of Infantry. Fourth Regiment. Indiana Militia. September 18, 1811, to November 18.
                            1811. (Photostat copy in Indiana State Library.)
               
                     War written on November 18, 1811, less than two weeks after the
                    battle. Following a tribute to the gallantry and bravery of the 
                        United States
                     Regulars who took part, he wrote that "Wilson's and Scott's
                    companies charged with the regular troops and proved themselves worthy of doing so."41
            
            At this point it must be admitted that only about half the boys from White Oak Springs and
                    thereabouts lasted the campaign through to share the Governor's praise for the fine showing
                    of Captain Wilson's Company. The rolls reveal that Robert Brenton, Thomas Milbourn, Jacob
                    Harbison, John Risley, and Jonathan Walker deserted on October 24, and that Peter and William
                    Brenton were permitted to return home on account of illness on October 27. However, failure of these
                    men to take part in the major engagement of the campaign seems to have done them no irreparable
                    discredit. All the deserters were back in the militia service in 1812, except Thomas Milbourn, who
                    returned in 1813.42 In March, 1815, Peter Brenton was appointed Ensign in the
                    First Battalion, Third Regiment, and Robert Brenton was commissioned Lieutenant of the Second
                    Battalion, First Regiment. Evidence of the esteem in which Peter Brenton was held among his superior
                    officers would be forthcoming in connection with an important later event. The only member of the
                    White Oak Springs contingent in the Governor's army to receive any distinguishing mark was
                    Wolsey Pride. He was credited with the assignment of "extra duty caring for the
                    sick," which reveals the woodsman and bear hunter in a humane role not customarily accorded
                    him.
            Participants in the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     from other parts who afterward settled at White Oak Springs were: Hugh Shaw, a member
                    of Captain David Robb's43 company, later the husband of Henry
                    Brenton's daughter Sary (Sally); and Elijah Lane, who served in Captain Frederick
                        Geiger's41 company 
                  
                     41
                            William Henry Harrison, Messages and Letters, edited by Logan
                            Esar½ (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922) I. 627.
                  
                     42 The mild punishment for dessertion suggests that the offense may
                            have been lightly considered. By the law of 1807, it consisted of a fine, "not
                            exceeding fifty dollars." and the obligation "to march on the next tour of
                            duty under the same penalties as the first." Laws of Indiana
                            Territory, 1801-1809, edited by Francis S. Philbrick (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1931), 419.
                  
                     43 David Robb was a native of 
                                Ireland
                             who settled in 1800 near the site of the later town of Hazelton. History of 
                                    Gibson County
                                
                      (Edwardsville, III., 1884).
                  
                     44 Captain Fredrick Geiger organized his company of 
                                Kentucky
                             Volunteers at 
                                Louisville
                            . He was wounded in action, but remained in command of his company. Alfred
                            Pirtle. Battle of 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                
                     (
                                Louisville
                            , 1900).
               
                     of 
                        Kentucky
                     mounted riflemen and was wounded during the progress of the battle.
            With the return of the Indian fighters, things around White Oak Springs began to pick up and hum. A
                    new year was upon them. The Indians were subdued, they thought, and optimism was in the air. Wolsey
                    Pride retired to the enjoyment of the elbow room on his choice quarter section near Highbanks and
                    Hosea Smith completed the business of acquiring legal title to White Oak Springs, "my
                    plantation," as he now called it. Jacob Chappell and his wife returned to their cabin up
                    the Trace with their little daughter and a young son, Stephen, born at the Fort while his father was
                    with General Harrison at the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . William Gray and his wife hunted a location, and settled upon forty acres near
                    Highbanks (NW¼ of NE¼, Sec. 21, Tp.1N., R6W), close to Wolsey Pride's
                    new claim. Peter Brenton acquired the Silas Risley place, a quarter section which included what was
                    probably the handsomest site in the White Oak Springs vicinity, and which he was to donate later for
                    the county seat of 
                        Pike
                     County.45
            
            The early established group at White Oak Springs became now indeed the "old
                    settlers." The new immigration provided a new infusion of life blood, which was felt
                    immediately in the quickened course of events and the richer quality of life. There were numerous
                    weddings "in our midst," 
                        Knox
                     County marriage licenses showing: 
                  July 17, 1810, John Wease to Polly Jerrald
                  October 24, 1810, Isaac Walker to Susanna Risley
                  December 8, 1810, Wm. T. Bass to Dorothy Pancake
                  March 23, 1811, Henry Miley to Nancy Pride
                  May 6, 1811, Jonathan Walker to Polly Brinton
                  September 5, 1811, George Tivebaugh to Patience Severns
                  December 16, 1811, Daniel Baldwin to Hannah 
                                Butler
                            
                  
                  April 7, 1812, David Wease to Elizabeth Harbison
                  May 22, 1812, Ashberry Alexander to Betsy Lindsey
               
            
            John Johnson was appointed Justice of the Peace January 2, 1811, and the records show that he
                    performed the Walker-Brinton and the Miley-Pride marriages listed above. There 
                  
                     45 No deed is recorded in either the Pride-Smith transaction, or the
                            Risley-Brenton. as the original owners had neved had legal title to their lands. Wolsey
                            Pride and Silas Risley were the original claimants, but Hosea Smith and Peter Brenton were
                            the first title-holders to their respective lands. This is the distinction as made by the
                            General Land Office. The account of the Pride-Smith transaction In the 
                                Pike
                             County deed book reads: "Title to 2 tracts (NW 28, TIN R8W and 60
                            acres off the west end of NE adjoining east side of above) entered by Woolsey Pride but
                            cancelled before redeemed passed to Hosea Smith."
               
                     is no record of the officiating minister or justice for the
                    other marriages, and we suspect that Johnson performed some of them also.
            No less important than the literal enrichment of the life-stream of. the community, was the stream of
                    fresh ideas set flowing by the newcomers to White Oak Springs. They were people with a variety of
                    cultural backgrounds, and religious and political beliefs.
            If there was any unanimity of opinion among "new" and "old"
                    settlers alike, it was no doubt centered in devotion to the young 
                        United States
                     of America. The revolutionary soldiers, Josiah Arnold, James Brenton, Thomas Meade,
                    John Coonrod and Henry Marrick46 had themselves assisted in its struggle for
                    birth, and they, with their children, and other children and grandchildren of veterans made up a
                    consider-able part of the population. Events of 1811 to 1813 were, moreover, such as to refresh and
                    stimulate patriotic solicitude.
            There may also have been considerable, though perhaps not unanimous, subscription among these natives
                    of slavowning states to anti-slavery sentiment. The Quakers were committed to it, and we infer that
                    others were also, from the, fact that they chose to come into a territory expected to be a free
                    state, and that they brought no slaves with them.47
            
            Territorial affairs were a close second in interest to national and affected life at White Oak
                    Springs, even more intimately. Indian policies, compulsory militia service, county and township
                    boundary changes, political parties and party politics, and changes in methods and personnel of
                    territorial government, were vital issues. Upon these there were undoubtedly differences of opinion.
            There is notable evidence that not all such differences, whether upon public or personal matters,
                    were considered peacefully or settled amicably. Many of the cases in the first courts (
                        Knox
                    , Gibson, 
                        Pike
                    ) which involved citizens of White Oak Springs were cases of assault and battery and of
                    trespass on the case. Not even the old 
                        Quaker
                     neighbors of 
                  
                     46 Henry Marrick swore to Revolutionary service with 
                                Virginia
                             troops and applied for a pension in the March term of the 
                                Pike
                             County Court, 1820; but his name is not on record either in the Pension
                            Department of the Veteran's Administration or in the office of the Adjutant General
                            of the War Department. Inasmuch as John H. Gwathmey, editor of the Historical
                                Register, Virginians in the Revolution (
                        Richmond, Virginia
                     ,
                            19381, states that at least 1/3 of the records of the 
                                Virginia
                             militia privates who served in the Revolution have been lost forever, it seems
                            safe to believe Mr. Merrick's oath, and to consider his service record among the
                            lost.
                  
                     47 No slaves are known to have been brought to White Oak Springs in
                            this period, although several were brought within the next few years by at least three
                            families, and county records show that they were exchanged by sale, gift, and
                        bequest.
               
                    
                    
                        North Carolina
                     days escaped disagreement, one of the first cases tried in the 
                        Pike
                     County court being that of Joab Chappell vs. Hosea Smith for trespass
                        vi et armis.48 It was a poor dispirited soul who could
                    fail to have cause to sue or be sued at least once each term of court.
            We suspect that there was some truth in the Augusta (
                        Georgia
                    ) Sentinel's charge that, "a North Carolinian cannot
                    salute you without putting his finger in your eye," as well as in the Raleigh (
                        North Carolina
                    ) Star's denial, which explained that, "the practice
                    of gouging had long since yielded to the advance of civilization and refinement, and had retired to 
                        Georgia
                     and the wilds of 
                        Louisiana
                    "49 (May 31, 1810). Should the paper have added
                    "and to Indiana"?
            There were gentler sides, however, to community life around White Oak Springs than the above would
                    suggest, and the forces of religion were strongly felt. All the members of the 
                        Perquimans
                     County immigration came from old 
                        Quaker
                     families which had resided for a century in the centers of southern Quakerism within
                    the counties of Nansemond and Isle of Wight, 
                        Virginia
                    , and 
                        Perquimans
                     and 
                        Pasquotank
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    . Jason Harrell and the little boy, Stanton Lamb, carried certificates of membership
                    with requests for admission "to some monthly meeting in 
                        Ohio
                    " and the others probably did the same. David Hornaday and Hannah White-head,
                    who came in 1811, were from Chatham County, 
                        North Carolina
                    , where members of their families belonged to the 
                        Cane Creek
                     monthly meeting.50 Viewed in the light of their later lives, all
                    were righteous and godly people, and it seems that they should have been weighty Friends, with
                    concern for the immediate organization of a meeting. Hosea Smith wrote to Gabriel Elliot of 
                        Perquimans
                     County in November, 1810, saying: "I am in hopes in time if it is the Will of 
                        Providence
                     that there may be a meeting of Friends near this place." Less expectantly, he
                    wrote, in 1812, that, "the old man our father would be much delighted and satisfied to be
                    here but the undertaking of such a journey would be hard and tiresome to come in a unsettled place
                    where we 
                  
                     48 The defendant pleaded not guilty: "thereupon came a
                            jury" which found him guilty and assessed damages of $40. The defendant
                            appealed and made a showing but his appeal was denied.
                  
                     49 Quoted from Guion Griffes Johnson, Ante-Bellum 
                                    North Carolina
                                
                     (Raleigh, 1937).
                  
                     50 Sources of our Information are: Minutes of the 
                                Perquimans
                             County, N.C., monthly meeting; the Western Branch m.m. of 
                                Perquimans
                             County; the 
                                Cane Creek
                             m.m. of old 
                                Orange
                             County, N.C.; and others. See Wm. Wade Hinshaw. Encye, of Americma 
                                    Quaker
                                 Gen., I.
               
                     hant [sic] at this time meetings and other conveniences he
                    might wish for."51
            
            Hosea Smith's pious hope went unfulfilled and no meeting was ever organized at White Oak
                    Springs. It is not for us to raise the whys and wherefores of the will of 
                        Providence
                     in this matter, but from a strictly human point of view there were obvious obstacles to
                    the observance of the Friends' discipline. Joab Chappell violated it immediately upon his
                    arrival and Moses Harrell later by their engagements in militia service. Marriage within the society
                    was foreclosed to them, as members of their own group were already closely related, and they were
                    isolated from other groups. The plain language of Friends was ill-adapted to frontier situations
                    which required rough dealing, and the stricture of plain dress lost pertinence in an economy which
                    prescribed linsey-woolsey and leather. The difficulties of first-comers to a wilderness were hardly
                    met by arbitrary rules of meticulous conduct.
            Religious observance at White Oaks Springs was not, however, to depend wholly upon any one group of
                    its settlers. Contemporary with the coming of the natives of the Albemarle from the ancient
                    tide-water stronghold of American civilization, there was an assemblage of seasoned pioneers from
                    the wide-spread outposts of its latest frontiers. Many were straight from the camps of the Great
                    Revival which had rocked the South,52 and from the headquarters of the
                    Cumberland revolt against Calvinism.53 Among them were evangels of the old and
                    the new doctrines which had lately undergone the fire of volcanic phenomena and emerged in variety
                    and temper suited to frontier needs. Certain of these doctrines gripped the people of White Oak
                    Springs, including the Quakers, and shook them into action for the salvation of their souls. Only
                    brief scenes of this drama have been preserved for us. From them and from its final outcome we may
                    conceive something of its intensity and its importance to those taking part.
            Archibald Campbell was an ardent believer in Methodism and promoted camp meetings for the propagation
                    of his faith. His family and those of his two brothers (possibly three), 
                  
                     51 Gabriel Elliot was the husband of Mrs. Hosea Smith's
                            sister, Mary. Hosea Smith's reference to "the old man our
                            father," may therefore be to Silas Harrell, Mrs. Smith's father, rather
                            than to John Smith, Hosea Smith's father.
                  
                     52 See Catherine C. 
                                Cleveland
                            . Great Revival in the West, 1797-1806 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1916).
                  
                     53 See Robert V. Foster, A Sketch of the History of the
                                Cumberland Presbyterian Church (
                                New York
                            , 1911).
               
                     and the family of Henry Marrick were the original members of
                    the "class," which was formally organized in 1828, and has had continuous
                    existence from then until 1940 as the Methodist Episcopal Church of Petersburg. It is now, of
                    course, just the Methodist Church.
            David Hornaday fell under the influence of the Baptist Church of Christ and became an expounder of
                    its principles and an exhorter before its congregations. This church grew out of the Elk and Duck
                    River Association which was organized in 1808 by the Baptists of the Muscle Shoals neighborhood on
                    the 
                        Tennessee
                     River. It held generally to Galvanism and practiced closed communion and foot washing.
                    Other practices are revealed by the contents of the following church document: 
                        
                     
                                Pike
                             Co., State of Indiana, May 8, 1825.
                        To those it may concern, etc.—
                        We the Presbretery being legily called by the Baptist Church of Christ to examine the
                            qualifications of Br. David Hornida for the Gospile Minnistry and after
                            exam'n-fasting, praying and the Imposition or laying on of hands, the said David
                            Hornida is autherized to go forth in the full funktean [function] of a Gospile Minnester to
                            preach the word of God, administer babtism, and the Lord's supper and perform
                            minnester's dutys as directed in the Scriptures of truth etc. where God may cast
                            his lot.
                        Attested by
                        Alexander Devin54
                  
                        Jeremiah Cash55
                  
                    
            
            David Hornaday's first lot was cast at Highbanks, and during his lifetime of service his
                    "funktean" as "Minnester of the Gospile" was performed among
                    congregations in the 
                        Pike
                     County area. The Hornaday Baptist Church of Petersburg is a memorial to this pioneer
                    preacher and has within its keeping the above "authorization."
            The Cumberland Presbyterians were another 
                        Tennessee
                     group of separatists. They subscribed to strong Arminian modifications of the
                    Calvinistic doctrine, and their influence was felt at White Oak Springs fresh from its headwaters in
                    the person of Nancy Lindsay Gladish. She was the wife of Jeremiah Gladish and the daughter of James
                    Lindsay. Both her own family and that of her father arrived at White Oak 
                  
                     54 Alexander Devin was a Regular Baptist minister who moved from 
                                Virginia
                             to the neighborhood of 
                                Princeton
                             in 1808. See Gil R. Stormont. History of 
                                    Gibson County
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1914).
                  
                     55 Jeremiah Cash was a Regular Baptist elder. He belonged to the
                            church at Patoka (
                                Gibson County
                            ) which was organized about 1810. He was its third pastor and served as such for
                            a number of years. See Stormont, op. cit.
               
                     Springs in the very year of the Cumberlands' final
                    break with the main Presbyterian body (1810). All, or most of the members of these families were,
                    then or later, Cumberland Presbyterians, but tradition, doubtless for good and sufficient reason,
                    singles out the young wife and mother (she was twentyone and had a one year old son, James) for the
                    distinction of being "the first Cumberland Presbyterian ever to cross the 
                        Ohio
                     River." Her faith spread swiftly to many families, including the Alexanders,
                    Dillins, Johnsons, Meads, Weases, and Mileys. Their early congregation was organized as a church at
                    Petersburg in 1821, and claim is made that it was the first of the denomination in the state.56 It continued to be a well supported and flourishing church until, following
                    the national movement of 1906, it united with the Petersburg Presbyterian church.57
            
            David Parks signed himself "Minister of the Gospel" in 1817, being the first
                    citizen of White Oak Springs to be so designated in any record, but of what denomination we have
                    been unable to learn. He is probably but one of the many whose toil in the vineyards is long
                    forgotten.
            Many of the newcomers were men of gifts and skills and all joined in the common objective of creating
                    a civilization. They were not content with life as Dennis Hanks described it in 
                        Spencer
                     County, when he said: "We lived the same as the Indians,
                    ‘ceptin’ we took an interest in politics and religion."
            Hosea Smith was a surveyor, and the services of no profession were more acutely needed. Government
                    surveys completed in 1805 were marked by mile posts and blazed bearing and line trees, into sections
                    and quarter sections, but into no smaller tracts. Moreover, "county towns" were to
                    be laid out in the near future, of which Hosea Smith was to lay out at least
                    three—Portersville, Petersburg, and 
                        Jasper
                    . Henry Marrick and Thomas Milbourn were carpenters and builders, the former also a
                    cabinet and coffin maker. There is comfort in the thought of what the skill of these men contributed
                    to the decencies of living and dying at White Oak Springs. J. W. Loan started a general store. David
                    Miley was a wheelwright, his specialty being spinning wheels.
            
               
                  56
                        
                            Shiloh
                         Church In DuBois County claims to have been the second. Ashberry Alexander was one
                        of Its founders. See George R. Wilson. History of DuBois County.
               
                  57 The Presbyterian Church of Petersburg was not organized until 1848. and
                        its founders were mainly members of lately arrived families from 
                            Ohio
                         and Pennaylvania.
            
            
            Archibald 
                        Campbell
                    , James Lindsay and Elijah Lane were blacksmiths. 
                        Campbell
                    , of stalwart frame and evangelistic fervor, became a sort of mythical hero in the
                    folklore of White Oak Springs. There is evidence that the other two did their share of the
                    blacksmithing business. James Lindsay owned a set of tools including bellows, an anvil, a vise, and
                    two sledge hammers. This equipment sold for $143.95 following his death in 1817. The
                    useful nature of Elijah Lane's services are suggested by the items of a bill which he
                    submitted for collection (estate of Daniel Adamson, 1830). Some of them were:
            
               
                  To make a spade
                  .25
               
               
                  To sharp a plow
                  .12½
               
               
                  To one clove's pine, (clevis?)
                  .25
               
               
                  To irone a well bucket off
                  1.25
               
            
            Moses Harrell had set up a horse mill by 1815, possibly as early as 1812. In the March term of the 
                        Gibson County
                     Court of 1816, he applied for a writ of ad quod damnum for a water
                    mill on Pride's Creek (NE 21), to which he and James 
                        Campbell
                     had entered claim in 1815. Although water mills of the period were commonly used for
                    both grinding and sawing, we think it likely that this was exclusively a grist mill, as Thomas
                    Milbourn set up a sawmill on Pride's Creek in 1822.
            The periodic journeys of menfolk to mill through the vicissitudes of winter weather and bad roads,
                    and the distress of women left alone with their children in terror of Indians and wild animals,
                    compose a classic chapter in the history of most pioneer communities, and that of White Oak Springs
                    is no exception. Mrs. Zachariah Selby (Mary Ann Wease) whose husband and two brothers had moved from 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1807 to a location "about six miles west of White Oak Springs"
                    told her granddaughters, Mrs. Mary Ann Selby Colvin and Mrs. America Selby Pomernecke, that at the
                    time she had her first baby the Indians "lived in the same yard" with them. When
                    her husband went to mill at Wheeling (
                        Knox
                     County) or 
                        Vincennes
                    , he feared to leave her alone among them and so she and her baby would ride behind him
                    and the grain sacks as far as the White Oak Springs Fort, where she would wait the two or three days
                    until his return. Later, when the Indians had proved themselves friendly, she remained at home. Just
                    when Moses Harrell's  mill went into operation we do
                    not know, but let us hope it was promptly.
            As a tribute to sentiment, attention is called to the fact that upon the same day that Moses Harrell
                    got the writ issued for his mill site (March 12, 1816), he also acquired a license to marry Miss
                    Mary Miley, and that Justice Hosea Smith subsequently made them man and wife.
            Life and liberty were not yet secure in the new county of Gibson, township of 
                        Madison
                    , and civic progress and the pursuit of happiness did not proceed without alarms and
                    interruptions. The Indian tribes, heartened by British successes at 
                        Detroit
                     and 
                        Fort Dearborn
                     (
                        Chicago
                    ) in the war that Congress had declared on Great Britain in June, 1812, and restocked
                    with British food and ammunition, resumed their former assaults on the frontiers in August.
            Militia service was compulsory for every free, able-bodied, white, male citizen of the territory
                    between the ages of 18 and 45, with few provisions for exemption and refusal subject to fine by the
                        courts.58 Called for service on August 11, in the First Regiment commanded
                    by Col. Ephraim 
                        Jordan
                    
               59 were:60
                    
                  
                     Jacob Pancake
                     Silas Risley
                     Thomas Pride
                  
                  
                     David Wease
                     Jacob Scamahorn
                     John Tislow
                  
                  
                     David Miley
                     John Risley
                     Joshua Selby
                  
                  
                     Isaiah Gladish
                     Jacob Harbison
                     Lemuel Baldwin
                  
                  
                     Henry Coleman
                     John Miley
                     Sebastian Frederick
                  
                  
                     Francis Coleman
                     John Butler
                     Peter Frederick
                  
                  
                     William Bass
                     John Cummins
                     
                  
                Serving from August 13 to November 19, were: James Lindsay, Sergeant, and William Coleman
            In early September, 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and Fort Harrison (
                        Terre Haute
                    ) were surrounded and threatened, and a number of persons were shot from ambush. Nearer
                    home, on the third of the month, twenty-three members of the unprotected Pigeon Roost settlement
                    (within the present limits of Scott County) were cruelly murdered. Reserves were thereupon called
                    out and White Oak Springs was stripped of men of the 
                  
                     58
                            Laws of Indiana Territory, 1801-1809, edited by Francis S. Philbrlck. 399.
                  
                     59 Col. Jordan was an early settler of Palmyra Township, 
                                Knox
                             County. He engaged in public service throughout the territorial period, as a
                            judge of the Courts of Quarter Sessions, and as an officer in the 
                                Knox
                             County Militia in every rank from Lieutenant to Colonel.
                  
                     60 These names appear upon the Muster. 
                                Pay
                             and Receipt Rolls of Indiana Territory, War of 1812. (Photostat copies. Indiana
                            State Library).
               
                     specified qualifications for the militia. Serving from
                    September 6 to November 9, in Captain Beckes' Company, were:
            
               John Chambers, second corporal
               Hugh Shaw Jr.
               Thomas J. Withers
            
            Serving September 10 to 21, in Captain John Johnson's Company of mounted riflemen, were:
            
               George Teverbaugh, Lieutenant
               Ashberry Alexander, Ensign
               Joab Chappell
               James Walker
               John Butler
               Robert Brenton
               Jonathan Walker
               Moses Harrell
               John Tislow
               Daniel Coleman
               Henry Brenton
               Jacob Harbison
               John Risley
               Francis Coleman
               Isaiah Gladish
               Joshua Selby
               Henry Coonrod
               Lemuel Baldwin
               Henry Coleman
               Peter Frederick
            
            In 1813 there were fewer militia duties performed by the men of White Oak Springs. We are at loss to
                    account for this, inasmuch as the need was as great as in 1812, and in fact, the territory-wide
                    enlistment was larger. Moreover, the militia law remained as strict as in 1812. The few who were
                    called saw some interesting service, however, for, by this time, the militia was on the offensive,
                    scouring the Territory clean of Indians and their villages. From February to April, in Captain John
                    Johnson's Company, were:
            
               Jacob Pancake
               Jeremiah Arnold
               John Wease
               Zachariah Selby
               James Butler
            
            From April to August, in Captain William Hargrove's61 Company, were:
            
               Jacob Pancake
               John Risley
               Hugh Shaw Jr.
            
            From May to August, in Captain Craven Peyton's Company of mounted rangers, were:
            
               Henry Miley
               Thomas Pride
               John Butler
               James 
                            Butler
                        
                        
                     
                        61 William Hargrove was a South Carolinian who settled in the
                                neighbrobood of the later town of 
                                    Princeton
                                 about 1804. He had served three years in the 
                                    Kentucky
                                 Militia, and proceeded to hold every rank from Captain to Colonel in the
                                Indiana Militia. Letters exchanged between him and Governor Harrison are one of the few
                                sources of knowledge concerning White Oak Springs in th period previous to 1810.
                  
               
               
               Jacob Harbison
               William Gray
               Thomas Milbourn
               John Miley
            
            It was the mounted rangers of Captain Peyton's Company with picked men from several other
                    companies under Col. Joseph 
                        Bartholomew
                     who made a tour of the 
                        Delaware
                     towns on the upper west fork of White River, engaging in several
                    skirmishes, destroying the grain of the Indians and burning what was left of their villages after
                    their owners had deserted them.62
            
            During the latter part of 1813 successes were all on the American side, an armistice was signed in
                    October, and in 1814 the militia law was relaxed. On October 14, 1814, Ashberry Alexander was
                    appointed captain in the First Regiment, Second Battalion; Robert Brenton lieutenant; and Thomas
                    Pride ensign. There were also other short single periods of service; but the frontier was
                    practically clear of Indians, the worst of their threat to the pioneer existence was ended and the
                    need of the militia was about over. In 1816 the 
                        Gibson County
                     Court (May term) recognized the existence of local companies when it formed the new
                    Harbison Township from "all that portion of 
                        Madison
                     lying east of the present line dividing Capt. Hope's and Capt.
                    Harrell's companies."63 The chief purpose of the militia
                    service was now accomplished, and it subsequently declined in importance until membership required
                    little more than muster day attendance.64
            
            For the benefit of any curious person who may wonder what the pay was for militia service, we cite
                    the following pay voucher items:
            
                    David Miley, private, Aug. 11 to Sept. 20, 1812, $ 8.88
                    David Wease, corporal, Aug. 11 to Sept. 20, 1812, 9.17
                    Jacob Pancake, sergeant, Aug. 11 to Sept. 20, 1812, 10.66
                
            Along with threat of violence from the Indians, White Oak Springs suffered violence from the forces
                    of nature.65
                    
                  
                     62 John B. Dillon, History of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1859). p. 524.
                  
                     63 The authors were unable to learn exactly who these captains were.
                            Jason and Moses Harrell resided at White Oak Springs, and the Hope family in the area of
                            Harbison Township. DuBois County. The latter family included James, Thomas, Richard and
                            Adam, the last named the first sheriff of 
                                Pike
                             County.
                  
                     64 See Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (I, p. 496).
                  
                     65 It seems pertinent to report that the authors found no recorded
                            information and heard no tradition that could be construed to mean that White Oak Springs
                            ever suffered from any hostile Indian attack. This was a great disillusionment for one of
                            the authors of this article, who spent many exciting childhood hours re-enacting the bloody
                            defense of the Fort from behind the portholes of the two story log house which remained of
                            the buildings that had stood within the stockade. This has now been razed, and there is no
                            reminder of White Oak Springs to appeal to the historic sense or the imagination of the
                            present generation of children.
               
                     Earthquakes were felt in June and September of 1812, caused,
                    according to Hosea Smith, "by the burning mountains of the Western ocean." Floods
                    in April, 1813, sent the streams out of their banks, drowned stock, washed away homes, and prevented
                    the passing of the mails for more than a month. "The greatest fresh in White
                        River known since settled," Hosea Smith called it.
            The untoward behaviour of Nature and natives was not, however, the worst that hindered the orderly
                    and satisfactory progress of personal and community affairs at White Oak Springs. In March, 1813,
                    Gibson County was formed from the 
                        Knox County
                     townships of 
                        Madison
                     and White River, plus some additional territory to the north and
                    south (See map III). (Madison was still "all that portion east of Congo's
                    Creek," and White River "the tract west of 
                        Madison
                     lying between White River and Pattocco.") White Oak
                    Springs seems to have had no hand or voice in the new county organization. Isaac 
                        Montgomery
                     and Daniel 
                        Putnam
                     of 
                        Princeton
                     were named associate judges, James Crow of the David Robb settlement (later Hazelton)
                    sheriff, and the out-of-the-way, new-begun village of Princeton was chosen for the county seat. The
                    appointment of Hosea Smith Justice of the Peace was, moreover, an unpopular one. Most of the ensuing
                    cases in the 
                        Gibson County
                     Court which involved the gentlemen from White Oak Springs were actions of
                    "contemp" for refusal to attend court at the new county seat, or appeals from the
                    jurisdiction of Justice Hosea Smith. A few quotations from the docket indicate the trend of feeling:
                        
                        October, 1814—Wm. McDonald66 vs. Hosea Smith, case dismissed.
                        March, 1815—(Henry Miley and Peter Brenton on the jury) An attachment ordered
                            issued against Ashbury Alexander and Moses Harrell for contemp of this court by their
                            nonattendance at the present term to give evidence.
                        March, 1815—Paul Tislow vs. James Brenton, an appeal from Hosea Smith's
                            jurisdiction. Appeal denied, judgment of the justice affirmed.
                        October, 1815—Ordered that Henry Brenton, John Brenton, and James Brenton show
                            cause why they should not be fined for not attending the present term of court as grand
                            jurors.
                        
                     
                        66 William McDonald was the head of the pioneer family of that
                                name. The McDonalds were the first settlers of the DuBois County area (1801). See George
                                R. Wilson, History of DuBois County.
                  
                        
                        June, 1816—Paul Tislow vs. Samuel Kinman, an appeal from judgment of Justice
                            Smith. Appeal dismissed for want of proper security.
                    
            
            Inasmuch as frontier justice is commonly the laughing stock of sophisticated generations, it seems
                    that an instance which commands respect today is worthy of report. In the case cited above Paul
                    Tislow vs. James Brenton, the judge handed down an opinion which for sound reasoning, clear-cut
                    language, and adherence to the point might well serve as a model for present day judges. The
                    conclusions, moreover, are a statement of law which would stand in the higher courts of the state of
                    Indiana, in 1940, as firmly as in the territorial courts of 1813.67 From the
                    GIBSON COUNTY CIVIL ORDER BOOK A: 
                        March term, 1815—Paul Tislow vs. James Brenton
                        On certiorari on motion of G. W. Johnston council for defendant for a writ against Hosea
                            Smith Esqr. Justice of the Peace for the County of Gobson to show cause by and upon the
                            first day of ensuing term of court, if any he hath, why a mandamus should not issue against
                            him to certify to this court records of his judgment in the above cause whereupon the same
                            is granted and it is ordered that a copy of this order be served on the said Hosea Smith
                            Esqr. by the sheriff.
                    
            
            In this cause the court delivered the following opinion: 
                        This writ of certiorari has been brought by Paul Tislow to reverse a judgment obtained
                            against him on James Brenton in a court for the trial of small causes before Justice Smith.
                            It appears from the record that the deft. appeared and attended to the trial.
                        The reasons assigned in the reversal of the judgment are 1st, that the warrant is defective,
                            2nd., that the Justice refused to permit the deft. upon his own request to swear to the
                            truth of his account.
                        As to the 1st. ground:—In the assignment it was suggested by this court and
                            admitted by Tislow's council that the appearance of a defdt. and preceeding to
                            trial cured any defect in the process. But it was contended that this doctrine does not
                            apply in Justices' Courts because as was said they are not courts of record. They
                            have authority to fine and imprison: besides, they are directed and obligated by express
                            words in the statute to keep a docket in which must be entered all the proceedings in the
                            cause—R. C. 220—and further the statute of 1811 authorizes the courts
                            of common pleas to issue writs of certiorari and makes it the duty of the Justice to whom a
                            certiorari is directed to send up a fair transcript of his record, which requisition of the
                            law would be absurd if there were no records belonging to the court. As therefore it is
                            admitted that appearances and proceeding to trial cures defect in process in court of record
                            the same circumstances cure defects of process in Justices' Courts, which are to
                            all intents and purposes, 
                        
                           67 For comment on this opinion, we are indebted to the Hon.
                                    Walter E. Treanor, Judge of the 
                                        United States
                                     Circuit Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit, 
                                        Chicago
                                    .
                     
                             courts of record. With respect to the second ground
                            urged for reversal has been argued that the Justice committed error in refusing to permit
                            the defdt. at his own request, to swear to the truth of his account, the Justice giving as
                            reason for such refusal that he was appraised it could be proved that defts. account had
                            been paid.
                        This court consider it totally immaterial whether the reasons given by the Justice for the
                            refusal are sound or not; the only question is—did he commit an error in not
                            complying with defts. request? We are of the opinion he did not; the defdt. had no right nor
                            had the Justice any Authority to permit him, to swear to the truth of his account, unless
                            particularly requested so to do by the adverse party—Acts of 1813, page
                            115—but it does not appear from the record that any such request was made.
                        The judgment of the Justice is therefore affirmed with costs."
                    
            
            The author of the above was none other than Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , then President Judge of the 
                        Gibson County
                     Court, later Justice of the Supreme court of the state of Indiana from 1817 to 185368
            
            An event occurred in 1813 (May 1) which was even more distressing than the change of a county seat.
                    This was the removal of the territorial capital from 
                        Vincennes
                     to Corydon by order of the territorial legislature. Whatever character and importance
                    White Oak Springs had, or might have, it owed to its propinquity to the territorial capital and its
                    situation on the main traveled road thereto. The effect of this act of the legislature was to reduce
                    it to a condition of provincial isolation, and to remove from its reach the world of affairs. Hosea
                    Smith could no longer write the news of public men and events in Indiana territory to the folks back
                    in Carolina with the authoritative and familiar preface "I heard the Governor
                    say… . " Corydon was almost as in-accessible as a foreign capital, and the trip
                    there was too difficult and too expensive to make for any except necessary and urgent business.
                    George Chambers made it in 1824 to settle the estate of his father, John Chambers, and among his
                    expense items filed, "two trips to Cordden—$18."
            In 1814, the post road was rerouted and White Oak Springs left off, the new route passing to the
                    north by way of 
                        Washington
                     Courthouse (
                        Salem
                    , 1814) and Lindley's Mills (Paoli, 1816).69 In 1815,
                    however, a post office was granted 
                  
                     68 William W. Woolen, Historical Sketches of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1888) 344-352: Leander J. Monica, Courts and Lawyers of
                            Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 187-195; Southern Law Review, n.s., VI, 907.
                  
                     69 George E. Amick, "Post Roads in Southern
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History (Dec., 1984), XXX,
                        331-334.
               
                     to White Oak Springs, but it cannot be reported that
                    communication with the outside world was assured thereafter, for alas, not so. From the content of
                    the following letter we infer that in its new status White Oak Springs merely suffered a new
                    ignominy, that of having the post rider go by without stopping:70
               
                  
                     
                        
                                    Dec. 12, 1815
                                
                        The Postmaster General to
                        Hosea Smith, Esqr. P.M. White Oak Springs, I. T.
                        Sir, I have received yours of the 16th Ult. I wish you to inform the mail carrier
                                    that it is his duty to call at your office with the mail—and you can show
                                    him this letter as your authority.
                        
                                    R. J. M. [Meigs]
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            Transportation and communication were beginning to take other roads and other directions and to pass
                    by and around the little community south of White River, a trend which
                    continued over a period of years and finally left it in the remote seclusion of the backwoods.
                    Except for the alleviation furnished by the limited service of the 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                     Railroad (1881), this condition was suffered for a century. Only since modern
                    transportation and state highway building have penetrated its isolation has Petersburg had the easy
                    rapport with affairs of state and nation that White Oak Springs enjoyed in the period 1807 to 1814;
                    and the little city of Petersburg has never achieved the relative importance in the days of
                    Indiana's statehood that distinguished White Oak Springs in the early territorial period.
            Time crept on, and death and taxes took their toll. The tax rates as prescribed by the 
                        Gibson County
                     Court for 1813 were:71
            
            
                    For each 100 acres first rate land 25¢
                    For each 100 acres second rate land 18¾¢
                    For each 100 acres third rate land 6¼¢
                    For each horse creature over 3 yrs. old 31¼¢
                
            The first coroner's jury in Gibson County was impanelled on November 27, 1813, for the
                    purpose of an inquest on the body of Walter Jerrel. It held that his death was occasioned by the
                    accidental fire of his own gun. On the jury were: 
                  
                     70
                            Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , edited by Clarence Edwin Carter (
                                Washington
                            . D.C., 1939), VIII.
                  
                     71 The odd and fractional sums chosen for the tax rates suggest that
                            Spanish coins, the "fip." 6¼c. and the "bit,"
                            12½c. were in common circulation.
               
                    
                    
                        
                     James Lindsay, foreman
                     Henry Brenton
                     Henry Miley
                     David Miley Sr.
                     Wm. Craton
                     Jonathan Walker
                     Jacob Harbison
                     Peter Brenton
                     John Butler Jr.
                     David Weace
                     Thomas Milburn
                     Henry Miley Jr. [son of David Miley]
                  
                    
            
            Among the 
                        Gibson County
                     Court's appointments orders for 
                        Madison
                     Township were:
            
               
                  1813—Assessor
                  Hosea Smith
               
               
                  Constable
                  Abraham Pea
               
               
                  1814—Road Supervisors
                  James Brenton and James Lindsay
               
               
                  Election Superintendent
                  John Johnson
               
               
                  Election to be held at
                  Hosea Smith's.
               
               
                  1815—Overseers of the poor
                  Jacob Pea and Henry Brenton
               
               
                  Election Superintendent
                  Henry Brenton
               
               
                  Election to be held at
                  Hosea Smith's.
               
            
            "Hosea Smith's" was of course the Fort, still, as ever since its founding,
                    the center of community affairs. Theophila Smith Alexander often told her granddaughter, Mrs. Anna
                    Alexander Brenton, of the visits of Indians to the Fort. She said they would crouch in a ring around
                    the walls of her mother's kitchen, each with his dog at his side. When her mother passed
                    refreshments, all shared with their pets, while not one, to her amazement and indignation, ever
                    asked for food to take to his wife and children, or carried away any of his portion for them.
            The only available first-hand accounts of life at White Oak Springs are the brief comments of Hosea
                    Smith in his letters. It was not the time nor the place for any effort approaching the literary. In
                    fact, there was a high percentage of illiteracy, as may be noted from the many signatures on 
                        Pike
                     County records followed by "his (x) mark." There were numerous and
                    notable exceptions, however. John Coonrod signed his name in beautiful German script,
                    "Johannes Coonrod," and the Miley family owned, and surely some could read, a
                    small library of German books. James  Brenton acted as secretary
                    for public meetings and was the author of petitions and resolutions. Hosea Smith kept accounts of
                    his personal and official business, his big walnut desk being stuffed, as his grandchildren
                    remembered, with correspondence and legal papers. Paul Tislow made scrupulous reports to the Court
                    of an estate which he admistered. David Miley gave expert clerical service to 
                        Pike
                     County for many years in every county office. Thomas J. Withers and Henry Brenton
                    served as associate judges, their office elective and presupposing superior wisdom and common sense
                    rather than knowledge of law. David Kinman was the only poet among them, as well as can be learned.
                    Unfortunately in the one example of his work preserved, his "Journey Song," he did
                    not describe life at White Oak Springs. He did, however, describe experiences and give utterance to
                    emotions shared by all who joined him there, for which he may properly be called The Poet of White
                    Oak Springs. All had suffered the same sadness and anxiety of leave-taking of which he wrote: 
                        Farewell my old neighbors, I bid you adieu I am going to travel the wilderness through I am
                            going to travel the desert all through So farewell my old relation, I bid you adieu.
                    Almost all had travelled the same westward road and felt the rebirth of hope and the new
                    vision which Cumberland, of which he wrote, symbolized: 
                        We crossed over 
                                Tennessee
                            , we crossed over Clinch, Pursuing our journey, determined not to flinch We
                            scaled the high mountain, on the summit did stand And traveled down the western side to
                            sweet Cumberland.
                    
            
            Life was undoubtedly very real and very earnest at White Oak Springs, but it had its lighter moments
                    and days. According to the stories prefaced by "my grandmother used to tell," or
                    "my grandfather told us," phrases which may be quoted from interviews with a
                    number of grandchildren of White Oak Springs, camp meetings and muster days were the most memorable
                    occasions. Play-parties must have been a form of amusement for the young, as Skip-to-my-Lou and
                    Weevily Wheat were still being played at parties in Petersburg in the first decade of the twentieth
                    century. Infares also survived to the near-present, and prove that weddings were occasions  for celebration. Opportunities were not lacking as the number
                    of marriages which Justice Hosea Smith performed during his tenure of office show a far departure
                    from the little series of Arnold to Coonrod, Coonrod to Miley, Miley to Pride, Pride to Brenton
                    marriages which Squire Henry Brenton performed in the cozy old days of 1809. The new justice
                    performed marriage ties for the following:72
            
            
               July 25, 1813, Lemuel Baldwin to Jane Lynn
               July 28, 1813, David Hornaday to Hannah Whitehead
               October 26, 1813, James Ashby to Charlotte Decker
               August 18, 1814, John Luster to Rachel Pea
               July 10, 1814, Robert McClure to Phoebe Jerald
               December 10, 1814, Henry Coleman to Sarah Jerrald
               April 27, 1815, Charles Alexander to Theophila Smith
               January 7, 1816, Jeremiah Kinman to Hannah Pride
               January 14, 1816, Daniel Coleman to Huldah Jerrel
               March 12, 1816, Moses Harrell to Mary Miley
               March 21, 1816, John Miley to Mary Ricks
               August 8, 1816, James Walker to Polly Martin
               November 27, 1816, John Tislow to Rebecka Miley
            
            Licenses were also issued, but without record of the officiating justice or minister, to the
                    following: 
                  March 12, 1816, Thomas Williams to Hannah Lindsey
                  April 18, 1816, Henry Brenton to Mary Borders
                  August 31, 1816, John Brenton to Degeneracy 
                                Caldwell
                            
                  
               Perhaps next in interest to the occasions mentioned above was a public sale. A sort of
                    side-wise glimpse of one is afforded by the estate papers of William C. Brenton (sometimes signed
                    Willie) who died in 1815, leaving no heirs. Paul Tislow was appointed administrator of his estate,
                    and as such itemized his transactions for the court to the last detail. The following are typical:
                        
                        Wm. Brenton Deceased to J. Kuykendall,73 December 10, 1815, Sundrey
                            Medicn $1.37½ Received the above in full, J. A. Kuykendall.
                        December 16, 1815, the Est. of Wm. Brenton, de. to Robert McCoy Dr.74
                  
                        For making his coffin and furnishing part of plank and nails $2.50.
                        Personally appeared before me, one of the justices assigned to keep 
                        
                           72
                                    
                                        Gibson County
                                     Marriage Licenses.
                        
                           73 Dr. Joseph Kuykendall was coroner of 
                                        Knox
                                     County from 1802 to 1810. Executive Journal of Indiana
                                        Territory, July 9, 1802.
                        
                           74 Robert McCoy, a Revolutionary soldier, belonging to the 
                                        Virginia
                                     family of that name which settled in Harrison Township. 
                                        Knox
                                     County, between 1790 and 1800. History of 
                                            Knox
                                         and 
                                            Daviess
                                         Counties.
                     
                             the peace for the county of Gibson, Indiana Territory,
                            James Lindsey and Peter Brenton, and made oath that the appraisement of the estate of Wm. C.
                            Brenton had been done by them according to law. Given under my bond and seal the 29th of
                            December, 1815. Hosea Smith.
                        
                     Inventory of the Sale of Estate of William Brenton, late of Gibson Co.
                     
                        James Brenton,
                        one cow
                        $12.62½
                     
                     
                        John Butler,
                        one loom
                        12.62½
                     
                     
                        Elizabeth Soverna,
                        one waist coat
                        1.62½
                     
                     
                        " "
                        one pair pantaloons
                        4.01
                     
                     
                        " "
                        one close body coat
                        11.13½
                     
                     
                        " "
                        one waistcoat
                        11.76
                     
                     
                        " "
                        one shirt
                        1.33
                     
                     
                        Daniel Coleman
                        one pair pantaloons
                        4.81
                     
                     
                        John Brenton
                        one waistcoat
                        1.06½
                     
                     
                        B. D. Soverns
                        one pot
                        2.00
                     
                     
                        " "
                        one trunk
                        5.12½
                     
                     
                        Silas Soverns
                        one mare
                        24.82½
                     
                     
                        John Cummin
                        one pr. saddle bags
                        2.84½
                     
                     
                        Thos. Milburn
                        one saddle
                        4.00
                     
                     
                        Henry Conrod
                        one great coat
                        10.75
                     
                     
                        Paul Tislow
                        one improvement
                        6.00
                     
                     
                        David Parks
                        one gun
                        24.37½
                     
                     
                        Paul Tislow
                        To cash rec'd
                        58.
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        117.85
                     
                     
                        
                        Rec'd for ranging service
                        151.00
                     
                     
                        
                        
                        265.85
                     
                  
                        Paul Tislow Administrator.
                        Received of Paul Tislow 75¢ for being clerk at the sail Received of Paul Tislow
                            75¢ for being clerk at the sail of the goods of Wm. Brenton Deceist by me. David
                            Parks
                        Received of poll tislo one dollar for criing the sail of William brenton's estate
                            dezzeast 1815. Thomas Milburn
                        Received of Paul Tislow $1.25 for whisky applied to the use of sale of the
                            property of Wm. Brenton, Deceased. J. W. Loan.
                    
            
            A year after the administrator had made his supposedly final report to the court, he sent the
                    following notice: 
                        One reed came into my hands as the property of William Brenton sometime in the summer of 1817
                            not accounted for in the appraisement of said Brenton's property. The reed is now
                            in my possession and subject to the order of the court.
                    
            
            
            Willie Brenton was, we should say, fairly well stocked with this world's goods, as measured
                    by the standard of his time and place. He had the first two of what his contemporary, Daniel 
                        Boone
                    , called the three necessities of a man's existence—a good
                    rifle-gun, a good horse, and a good woman. Brenton's possession of a loom, a reed and an
                    "improvement," suggests moreover, that his menage may have been at one time graced
                    by the presence of the third of 
                        Boone
                    's necessities.
            There are a number of household inventories of the period on record, all of which emphasize the
                    scarcity and high intrinsic value of personal property. Counterpanes and camphor bottles, chopping
                    axes and razor cases were traded, mortgaged and disposed of by will as carefully as rifle-guns,
                    horses, and quarter sections. By far the most pretentious of these inventories is that of Hosea
                    Smith's chattels recorded in connection with a mortgage. In contrast to the one-man outfit
                    of the "Lone Ranger," Willie Brenton, and to the property described in most such
                    recorded lists, Smith's array of wealth seems grand indeed: 
                        
                     All the cattle and hogs in my mark
                     All the beds and bed clothing
                     all the pot metal and kitchen furniture
                     3 axes
                     1 clock
                     1 walnut desk
                     2 tables
                     12 chairs
                     2 trunks
                     1 loom
                     gears of harness
                     all the flax and spinning wheels
                     all my books
                     all my delf ware and tin and pewter with knives
                     and forks and grindstone and tools
                     bacon and hog's lard and all the crop of corn
                     and wheat now in the house and growing
                     2 head of horses one called Ball and the other Bonaparte
                     all the plows and gears and all the hoes.
                  
                    
            
            The foregoing picture of people and events in and about White Oak Springs has been drawn from every
                    source known and available to the authors. Even so, it is indistinct and uncertain. One feature is
                    clear, however, and that is the resemblance of the early community to that of today. No student of
                    the community's past who is also an observer of  its
                    present could escape the conclusion that Petersburg is the heir of the flesh and spirit of White Oak
                    Springs.
            More than thirty of the family names of White Oak Springs (about 50 in all) survive in Petersburg
                    today, as does the blood of some families whose names have disappeared. The authors, being neither
                    native nor kin to natives, had no especially favorable opportunity to observe this phenomenon. Yet
                    during the fraction of the author's lifetimes spent there, they knew personally the
                    descendants of at least thirty of the original immigrants; and, as was learned while making this
                    study, as many as thirty descend-ants of one immigrant. It is a statistical project to compute the
                    descendants of ancestors such as Stanton Lamb, one of whose children is reported to have complained
                    that "not one of my father's children ever got acquainted with all the
                    others"; or such as the Kinman brothers, David, James, Levi, and Jeremiah, to members of
                    whose families forty-nine marriage licenses were issued by the clerks of the 
                        Pike
                     County Court between 1817 and 1847.
            Perusal of the locals and personals in any past or current issue of the Petersburg Press
                        or the 
                            Pike
                         County Democrat discloses that the descendants of pioneers still make the
                    news. They are the "substantial citizens" of the town and surrounding farms. They
                    practice law, carry the mails, teach in the city and country schools, keep store, hold county and
                    state offices, and engage in banking, farming and business. They send their sons and daugters to
                    Indiana University,75 lead a church choir or the city band, grow flowers and
                    play bridge for amusement, and belong to Kiwanis and D.A.R. Yes, and if the whole truth be required,
                    there are those who loaf upon the street corners, disagree with one another as did their forefathers
                    of old, get themselves locked in the county jail, and help to fill the docket of the Circuit Court
                    of 
                        Pike
                     and DuBois Counties.
            Petersburg has, of course, had other accreditions of population. The immigration that first populated
                    White Oak Springs continued for another decade. The arrival from eastern states in the
                    eighteen-forties of other pre-Revolutionary American families resulted in the founding of the
                    Presbyterian 
                  
                     75 A descendant of Moses and Mary Miley Harrell, and also of James
                            Dillin, was elected to the Indiana University chapter of Phl Beta Kappa upon her graduation
                            last year, and she is but one among many descendants of the First Families of White Oak
                            Springs who have received similar academia honors.
               
                     byterian Church, and Blythewood Academy, a school for young
                    ladies. A few German and Jewish families came after the Civil War, and enough German, Irish, and
                    other Catholics to form a congregation, though not enough to the present date to support a resident
                    priest. In late years, the accents of a few French and Italian newcomers fall strangely on ears so
                    long accustomed only to English.
            The town has had other extraneous influences also which should not be overlooked. Many of its
                    educators, preachers, newspaper editors, and other cultural leaders have been outsiders. Development
                    of natural resources and public improvements have depended largely upon imported capital and labor.
                    The 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, Maysville to Petersburg to 
                        Evansville
                     section (1850), the 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                     Railroad (1881), deep vein coal mining (1896), the telephone (1897), oil and gas
                    production (1897), macadamized roads (1901), the glass factory (1903), modern highways (1930), and
                    strip coal mining in the present decade have brought in executives and workers.76 But a surprising majority of these people turned out to be transients performing their
                    labors for a while and departing. The comparative few who have remained were chiefly those who fused
                    their lives and fortunes with the never-failing main source of population that had its roots at
                    White Oak Springs.
            All things considered, it seems proper to state that Petersburg is the issue of White Oak Springs,
                    and that its civic morals, culture levels and social standards are the accumulation of currents of
                    thought and action which were set flowing between 1800 and 1817, and still flow in
                    1940—broadened some, but with little change in course and with few ripples and eddies to
                    mark tributary influences.
            This account may fittingly close with an account of the tragio-comic proceedings which wrought the
                    change of the community's center and name from White Oak Springs to Petersburg. Hosea Smith
                    had a prominent part in it, of course, although the outcome was exactly contrary to his
                    calculations. Foreseeing the imminent formation of a new county, he prepared to meet the ensuing
                    demand for a suitable county seat. On the White Oak Springs quarter section he laid out a town,
                    named it 
                        Alexandria
                     in honor of his son in-law, 
                  
                     76 Credit is due to Mr. Marmaduke MacClellan Stoops. editor from 1892
                            to 1923 of the 
                        
                                    Pike
                                 county Democrat, for checking the material and dates in this
                            paragraph, and for other favors.
               
                     Charles Alexander, and advertised it in the Western Sun (
                        Vincennes
                    ):
            
                    ALEXANDRIA
                    This town is laid out in a liberal plan and convenient form as it respects streets, alleys
                        & with a spacious public square. It is most delightfully situated on elevated ground,
                        (at the White-Oak Springs, Indiana State, 
                            Gibson County
                        ) on a sandy soil, which is pleasant and agreeable even in wet seasons—it
                        is situated one and a half miles front White River, where is an elegant
                        situation for a warehouse, and 5 below the forks of the river, from 
                            Princeton
                         23, from 
                            Vincennes
                         20, from the Mudholes 20, and 50 from the 
                            Ohio
                        , near the mouth of Sinking or Clover Creek, from which place a good road may be had
                        on high ground.
                    ALEXANDRIA is well watered with never failing springs, suitable for tanneries and distilleries,
                        and situated in the centre of a populous settlement, surrounded by the most fertile soil, and on
                        the main road leading from 
                            Princeton
                         to 
                            Louisville
                        —and by an experience of ten years is found to be as healthy as any place
                        on the western waters—to men of enterprize and industry it offers as many advantages
                        as any place in the state—the sale of lots will commence on Friday the sixth of
                        September at 9 o'clock, A.M.—a credit of 18 months will be given to all
                        purchasers of lots—due attendance will be given by
                    July 17, 1816 H. Smith, Proprietor
                
            The lot sale was held as per the advertisement and the lots were purchased at prices ranging from
                    $17.75 to $120. 
                        Alexandria
                    's lamps were trimmed and burning. It awaited only the coming of the bridegroom
                    in the person of the committee to be entrusted with choosing the site for the new county seat. This
                    committee was named in section five of the acts of the legislature which created the new county of 
                        Pike
                     (December 21, 1816). The members were instructed "to convene at the house of
                    Hosea Smith in 
                        Alexandria
                     on February 2nd next." It was further enacted that, "until suitable
                    accommodations can be had, all the courts of justice shall be held at the house of Hosea
                    Smith." Everything certainly Iooked favorable to Hosea Smith's well laid plans.
            However, while Hosea Smith had gone much farther with his preparations than any other, he was not the
                    only person with the conviction that his site was the ideal choice for the commissioners. Peter
                    Brenton was possessed with the selfsame notion in regard to the quarter section he had acquired from
                    Silas Risley in 1812. Moreover, he was willing to donate it. All that motivated Peter Brenton to
                    this burst of generosity may never be known. It may have been solely public spirit, but a guess may
                    be ventured that, unless  he was more saintly than human,
                    incentive must have been added to his original motive by the thought of beating Hosea Smith at his
                    own game.
            There were present in the situation all the components of a first rate factional line up and
                    squabble, with 
                        Alexandria
                     lot purchasers on the side of Hosea Smith and the unbiased friends of public economy
                    and personal supporters of Peter Brenton opposing. No inkling of such survives, however, and only
                    the bare factual conclusions of the conflict are known.
            Came the commissioners—and who should they be but Benjamin V. Beckes of 
                        Vincennes
                    , under whose lieutenancy Peter Brenton had served his brief term as corporal in the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign; Ephraim 
                        Jordan
                     of 
                        Vincennes
                    , the old militiaman with whom James Brenton had seen eye to eye since 1807,77 a lieutenant-colonel in the same campaign; William Hargrove of 
                        Princeton
                    , veteran of the ranger service, a familiar visitor at White Oak Springs since 1807, a
                    captain at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ; George Rogers Clark Sullivan, a former Kentuckian active in territorial affairs, at
                    this time post-master at 
                        Vincennes
                    , also a veteran of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ; and Geo. W. 
                        Boone
                     of 
                        Harrison County
                    . For a number of excellent reasons, according to their report, including, "its
                    eligible and beautiful situation," "its natural advantages," and
                    "with due regard to its present and future population," the commissioners favored
                    Peter Brenton's site.
            At that moment, white Oak Springs received its commitment to obscurity, and 
                        Alexandria
                     to ghostly oblivion; but Hosea Smith was on hand with his indispensable services to
                    plan and survey the new town to be named "Petersburgh" (modern spellers drop the
                        h) for Peter Brenton. Though it may have been a heavy task, he did it
                    handsomely, with Main Street a hundred feet wide running the picturesque ridge course of the Buffalo
                    Trace northeast by southwest for a third of a mile, "from Henry Miley's ash tree
                    to Peter Brenton's new. building." In order to give the town this beautiful
                    setting and at the same time plat it in symmetrical form, additional acres to those offered by Peter
                    Brenton were required. Henry Miley responded to the public need with a grant of twenty-six acres and
                    John Coonrod with two and a half acres, neither it appears asking recompense or recogless 
                  
                     77 "The First Families of White Oak Springs," loc. cit.
               
                     nition. To Peter Brenton who gave the rest of the total of one
                    hundred twelve acres, went all the distinction.
            The first meetings of the 
                        Pike
                     County commissioners were held in February and March, 1817, and the first terms of the 
                        Pike
                     County Court in April and July, "at Hosea Smiths." By November,
                    however, the new courthouse was completed, according, as we hope, to the specifications,
                    "24x 32, 2 stories high, of well hewn logs with a good joint shingle roof, well chinked and
                    daubed, with good floors tongued and grooved.
            … " Court convened therein, and Peter Brenton's town entered upon the
                    full enjoyment of its rights, powers and privileges as the seat of justice of the new county of 
                        Pike
                    , of the state of Indiana.
            Thus was defeated the ambition of Hosea Smith to found a new 
                        Alexandria
                     in the valley of White River. But there remained to him other of
                    the "consolateing blessings of 
                        Providence
                    ," to use his own phrase. There was for instance the postoffice, which he held
                    at White Oak Springs until it was discontinued in 1823, and a new one established at Peters- burg
                    with Moses Harrell as postma~ter.~~There was also the opportunity re-opened to him to expand White
                    Oak Springs into a large and beautiful estate such as he had known well in the south; such perhaps,
                    as the manor plantation of his grandfather, Abraham Hosea, in 
                        Pasquotank
                     County, 
                        North Carolina
                    . This he proceeded to do, entering upon a series of transactions that involved a
                    thousand acres of land and which spread the 
                        Pike
                     County records with his name and the names of his holdings. In addition to the White
                    Oak Springs estate, there were the peach plantation, the walnut grove, the sugar camp quarter, the
                    forge, the horse-mill tract, and others.
            On the twenty-second of June, 1845, Hosea Smith re- corded the departure from this life of his wiPe,
                    Huldah, and noted that, "She lived at the White Oak Springs 35 yr. 17 days." On
                    November 1, 1846, Hosea himself departed this life, and it should be noted, as he would have it, no
                    doubt: "He lived at the White Oak Springs 36 yr. 4 mo. 22 days." It would seem
                    that these events of the years 1845 and 1846, rather than those of 1817, mark the final passing of
                    the breath and spirit of White Oak Springs.
            
               
                  78 List and Card Indrv of Post Offices established in Indiana from the
                        beginning to 1920, compiled by Newton D. Mereness from records of the 
                            United States
                         Post Office Department (Indiana State Library).
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society.
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            The Society's Committee on Covered Timber Bridges consists of Robert B. Yule, temporarily
                    located at 
                  Greensburg, Pennsylvania
               , chairman, Richard C. Smith, Wylie J. Daniels,
                    and Frederick Polley of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Melvin Davies of 
                        Mitchell
                    . In the absence of Mr. Yule from the state, Mr. Smith is acting-chairman. His office is
                    in the Indiana Historical Society Library (William Henry Smith Memorial) in the State Library and
                    Historical Building. This committee has been working since 1931, and its chairman, formerly engineer
                    in the State Highway Department, began his study of these bridges in Indiana earlier than that.
            Indiana was one of the foremost of the states, if not the foremost, in surmounting the difficulties,
                    delays, and expense of fords and ferrys by the building of covered bridges. This was principally in
                    the second and last thirds of the nineteenth century. Some of the best and some of the longest
                    bridges in the country were erected in this state. From time to time reports of the committee and
                    lists of bridges have been published in the Indiana History Bulletin. An account
                    of the famous 
                        Wabash
                     River drawbridge (originally a covered timber bridge) at 
                        Vincennes
                    , replaced about ten years ago by the concrete bridge which is one of the finest parts
                    of the George Rogers Clark Memorial setting, was published in the Indiana Magazine of
                        History, June, 1935, under the title "The 
                        Vincennes
                     Bridge over the 
                        Wabash
                     River."
            These bridges have been, and are being replaced rapidly by modern concrete and steel bridges owing to
                    the heavier dmands of present-day traffic and to the increased cost of lumber. One of the early
                    covered timber bridges was removed and fortunately rebuilt in 
                        Brown
                     County State Park. Several others have been saved by relocation of roads and by the
                    interest which has been aroused in these structures. A great many are still deing duty and testify
                    to the sturdiness of this type of bridge. There are several counties, however, in which there are no
                    covered bridges standing.
            The Committee and the Society hope that some time an illustrated book can be compiled and published
                    by the Society which will preserve knowledge of these memorials and give readers some of the flavor
                    of the old horse and buggy days.
            
            The Committee on Early Water-Power Mills has been doing a similar work with early mills. It consists
                    of Denzil Doggett, of the Department of Conservation, State Library and Historical Building,
                    Indianaolis, chairman, Richard C. Smith, Frederick Polley, Edgar H. Evans of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Dr. William M. Reser of 
                        Lafayette
                    , Eugene S. Wierbach of 
                        Muncie
                    , and Arthur G. McMurray, Edinburg. Among the fruits of its labors are interesting
                    reports to Indiana History Conferences published in the Indiana History Bulletin
                    beginning in the years 1935-36, an article in the Indiana Magazine of History,
                    December, 1936, by Denzil Doggett on "Water-Power Mills on Flat Rock River," and
                    the very imposing collection of accounts and pictures of early water-power mills in every county in
                    the state now on file in the Society Library. A well-nigh complete account of the mills of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County, illustrated with photographs, by Dr. William M. Reser of 
                        Lafayette
                    , is as yet unpublished.
            One can scarcely over-estimate the part which waterpower mills played in the settlement and
                    development of Indiana. They were a necessity in every poineer commuity, frequently the center of
                    settlement; without them it is difficult to say whether civilized life could have been maintained in
                    poineer days. Nearly a thousand sites have been been identified in the state and a few of the very
                    early mills are still standing; they are among the most picturesque buildings that one can visit.
                    The rebuilt mill in Spring Mill Park testifies to the interest of the public
            There are enough pictures and authentic accounts of mills in the Society Library to make a handsome
                    volume on pioneer mills. Additional information is coming in and before long the Society ought to
                    undertake the publication of such a volume. It would be one of the most interesting of all its
                    publications, and not the least valuable.
            The Committee on Historical Buildings, Sites and Markers is chiefly active in gathering information
                    and in promoting organization of movements in the interest of preserving historic buildings and
                    marking historic sites. The committee includes Herbert W. Foltz, Architects and Builders Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , chairman, Abram Simmons of Bluffton, Lorenz G. Schumm of LaPorte, Louis A. 
                        Warren
                     and Holman. 
                        Hamilton
                     of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Harry Johnson of 
                        Valparaiso
                    ,  Francis 
                        Van
                     Natter of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Julia Le Clerc 
                        Knox
                     of 
                        Vevay
                    , R. E. Banta of 
                        Crawfordsville
                     and Mrs. E. B. Ball of 
                        Muncie
                    .
            The Committee began with a nucleus of copies of parts of the reports of the Historic Building Survey
                    in Indiana. This project of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior, in collaboration
                    with the Library of Congress and the American Institute of Architects, was headed in Indiana by the
                    chairman of this committee. Its reports contain detailed drawings and photographs and historical
                    accounts of twenty-eight buildings in Indiana of historical and architectural value. The complete
                    original set of reports is in the Library of Congress at 
                        Washington
                    . A large number of photographs of structures of all types in Indiana from early log
                    cabins to the George Rogers Clark Memorial at 
                        Vincennes
                     are also in the Indiana Historical Society Library. A number of historic places and
                    sites in the state, such as the Bailly Homestead in 
                        Porter County
                    , and the old Whitewater Canal at Metamora are awaiting the organization of movements
                    for their acquisition by the county in which they are located, or by the state, and for their
                    restoration and maintenance.
         
         
         
            THE STATE UNIVERSITY AND THE PUBLIC
            "The State University has … both a peculiar power in the directness of its
                    influence upon the whole people and a peculiar limitation in its dependence upon the people. The
                    ideals of the people constitute the atmosphere in which it moves, though it can itself affect this
                    atmosphere. Herein is the source of its strength and the direction of its difficulties. For to
                    fulfill its mission of uplifting the state to continuously higher levels the University must, in the
                    words of Mr. Bryce "serve without yielding to it;" it must recognize new needs
                    without becoming subordinate to the immediately practical, to the shortsightedly expedient. It mush
                    not sacrifice the higher efficiency for the more obvious but lower efficiency. It must have the
                    wisdom to make expenditures for results which pay manifold in the enrichment of civilization, but
                    which are not immediate and palpable."1 —Frederick Jackson
                    Turner.
            
               
                  1 The above passage is from the commencement address which Professor
                        Turner made at Indiana University in June, 1910, "Pioneer Ideals and the State
                        University."
            
         
         
         
            Documents HOLLIS CORRESPONDENCE
            The manuscript copies of the letters printed below, except the one written in 1848, were obtained
                    from Mrs. Wilson Short of Worthington, Indiana, through the good offices of Miss Lorena Cullison.
                    The Civil War letters were accidently discovered in an attic by Bobby ("Bob") 
                        Van
                     Short and Jack Austin Short, two school boys, and brought to the attention of Miss
                    Cullison, who is a teacher in the Worthington Public Schools. The old Hollis home in Worthington was
                    purchased by the Short family in recent years. It was while the house was being remodeled
                    preparatory to occupancy by the Short family that the two boys Bob and Jack Short found the letters.
                    Bert Hollis, a son of the Thomas ("Tom") Hollis, to whom the letters of 1862-1866
                    were written, now lives in Worthington. Thomas Hollis was a younger brother of Joseph H. Hollis,
                    Heber Hollis and Charles Hollis. Emma Hollis, a sister mentioned in several letters, was younger
                    than the four brothers. She was a student at Indiana University at the time of the Civil War. No
                    information relative to Frank W. Knowles, writer of several of the letters, save that contained in
                    the correspondence has been found. His own statements indicate that he was from the vicinity of
                            
                  Boston, Massachusetts
               , and that he was stationed at 
                        Indianapolis
                     for three months in the summer of 1863. There, he became acquainted with Thomas Hollis.
                    While in Indiana, Knowles must have visited in the Hollis home at Worthington, as it is clear from
                    his letters that he knew Tom's sister Emma. Knowles and Tom Hollis saw service together at
                            
                  Knoxville, Tennessee
               , after their regiment was ordered South. Their later
                    correspondence seems to have been simply an outcome of the friendship that grew up between the two
                    men in 1863 while in East 
                        Tennessee
                    .
            The father of Emma Hollis and her brothers was the Rev. Humphrey Hollis, an Episcopalian minister. He
                    and his wife were living at Worthington in the Civil War period. In his letter of December 7, 1862,
                    from the 
                        Virginia
                     front to Tom, Joe speaks of the father and mother as "getting old."
            The last letter here published, written by Harrison N. Throop in 1848, has no connection with those
                    that precede it in the series. The writer of this early letter was a preacher,  who was temporarily keeping the Junction House, a tavern, at Point
                    Commerce, Indiana. Rev. Throop was the father of Julia Throop who became the wife of Thomas Hollis,
                    the recipient of the letters of the Civil War period. The Throop letter of 1848 is a treasured
                    possession of Bert Hollis of Worthington. Being a son of Thomas and Julia Throop Hollis, the present
                    Mr. Hollis is a grandson of the Rev. Humphrey Hollis and also of the Rev. Harrison N. Throop.
            [The Letters]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Sperryville1
                              
                           
                                    July 27th 1862
                                
                        Dear Brother,2
                        
                        I take a few spare moments to write you a few lines. I would have written sooner only
                                    that we have had no mail for over a week and I do not know as you will get this for
                                    I hear that all of our mail is stopped at 
                                        Washington
                                     but I will try and send you this short note hit or miss. We have not
                                    made any move here yet and how soon we will is a question. Our Cavlery have been
                                    doing some good work over on the Rail Road I suppose you have seen an account of it.
                                    The late order of Gen. Pope is causing the "Stay at Home Rebils"
                                    to feel very bad. It is a good thing and will go farther tword putting down the
                                    Rebellion than anything done for some time. I think that things are beginning to
                                    wind up, and, if I am not much mistaken, the War will end right here in Va. But
                                    there is much blood to be spilt yet before it closes. How is recruiting going on in
                                    your state? I hear that III. has her quota full. I hope the boys will turn out to
                                    put down the Rebellion if we get our 300,000 men out we certainly will win the day.
                                    I fear that the war has been kept up longer than necessary, but I think the day is
                                    now passed and the Rebils will be dealt with the same as if they were a Foreign
                                    nation. I hope that it will soon close for if I am ever to get home it may be this
                                    fall, I have not been very well of late and when I am not well I do not like
                                    soldiering so well. You will have to excuse short-cut for I have to go.
                        
                                    Write soon
                                    Your affe, Bro.,
                                    J. H. Hollis
                                
                        My love to all at Home.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Chantilly,3 Va.,
                           
                                    Dec 7th 1862
                                
                        Dear Brother,4
                        
                        I received your welcome letter of Nov. 27th upon yesterday and I 
                              
                                 1 Sperryville, 
                                                Virginia
                                            , just east of the Blue Ridge on the road from Luray to
                                            Warrenton.
                              
                                 2 This letter was from J. H. (Joe) Hollis to Thomas
                                            (Tom) Hollis. Thomas, who had seen some service in East 
                                                Tennessee
                                            , before returning to his home at Worthington, Indiana, was
                                            younger than his brother Heber R., Joseph H., or Charles Hollis. After the
                                            Civil War, Thomas Hollis was a druggist in Worthington for many years.
                              
                                 3 Chantilly. is about thirty-five miles west of 
                                                Washington
                                            , D.C., and ten miles northwest of Fairfax C. H., 
                                                Virginia
                                            .
                              
                                 4 J. H. Hollis to Thomas Hollis.
                           
                                     was very glad to hear that you was always
                                    employed. it has been a good while since your last. I hope you will try and write a
                                    little oftener I see by your last letter that you have improved in your penmanship.
                                    I am glad to see it. I have not the patience to learn but I think I have improved in
                                    the last year. the moast of good penmen put on too many flub dubs
                                    for me I like to see a good plain hand like Father writes. But then I often think if
                                    people want to hear from me they will have to take it as I give it. I often write in
                                    a hurry for as a general thing if I begin to write a letter I have to leave two or
                                    three times to do something Our camp was alarmed again last night but everything is
                                    quiet to-day. Last night was the coldest we have had it was a beautiful night the
                                    moon shone bright as day and the Stars looked as if they would burst from their
                                    sockets. The wind blew very hard untill about 11 o'clk at night the Sun is
                                    out to-day but it is very winday We have cut sod and built us chimneys and we are
                                    quite comfortable. They are to-day takeing a list of all camp equipage, clothing,
                                    &c.&c. wanted by us that is a sign of moveing. It is reported here
                                    that Burnsides has burned 
                                        Fredericksburg
                                    , but nothing reliable as yet there is also a rumor of Peace. it is said
                                    that they are making out the papers in 
                                        Washington
                                    . I hope it will be only upon our own terms. We have fought them so long
                                    let us see it out. one side or the other will claim the victory and if it is a
                                    Compromise the South will always be puting upon the North untill it will be war
                                    again. I never want to see an-other war of this kind. Tell Mother that I enquired
                                    for her friend Mrs. Baker of a young Lady that has lived here for years and knew
                                    her. She says that she Mrs. Baker went to the South shortly after the war broke out
                                    She was Sesesh. tell her I did not know before that she had any Seseh friends but so
                                    it is with Civil War Brother against Brother and Father against Son and Son against
                                    Son. I hope that our Southern friends will try and lay down their arms and come back
                                    into the good old Union and I will inshure her to never sink. and I know that Uncle
                                    Sam will do as much for them and more than any one else. This has been a sad war.
                                    Not one half of it is yet told. 
                                        Virginia
                                     will never be again what she was before the war, and it will be years
                                    before they can again fence it so it can be worked. Luckey is the man that has Stone
                                    fence in this State. Give my love to Father & Mother also to Sister Emma. I
                                    wrote to Father on the 6th. I hope he gets my letters all. You must write when you
                                    can. help Father and Mother all you can. They are getting old. Hoping to hear from
                                    you before long again I remain your affectionate Bro., Joe H. Hollis.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Brookes Station,5 Va
                           
                                    May 12th 1863
                                
                        Dear Bro. Thos.6
                        
                        I seat myself to write you a few lines this morning. I wrote to 
                              
                                 5 Brookes Station was a small station on the 
                                                Orange
                                             and 
                                                Alexandria
                                             Railroad, a short distance northeast of the Rappahannock River.
                              
                                 6 J. H. Hollis to Thomas Hollis.
                           
                                     Father the other day telling about the
                                        Battle7, &c &c. I suppose you have seen an
                                    account of it in the papers but it is beyond discription the roar of artillery and
                                    musketry is [was] beyond anything you can imagine. How little people at Home know
                                    about war. Our camp is more gloomy than it ever yet was known to be. Our Col was
                                    wounded in the brest and passing into his arm. We will lose him. our Lt.-Col. was
                                    wounded at Cross Keys and is not able to keep the field. He has resigned and our
                                    Capt has been appointed Provost Marshal, 17th District of 
                                        Ohio
                                    . Two of our old Captains of Co. I & H I hear have resigned and
                                    many a man left killed or wounded upon the battle field our ranks are thined by this
                                    wicked Rebellion, everything looks so very dull. we had Corps drill yesterday and
                                    our Regt. turned out about what we had in one company when we left Camp Chase. One
                                    more fight and we are all gone. No more of the 25th will be left.
                                    but we all wish to see the Rebellion finished. The Rebils all had their canteens
                                    full of whiskey and Gun powder and they fought walking up to the very cannon mouth.
                                    but what a sin it is to put men into battle in that way where they are like demons.
                                    I pray God may turn their hearts and that they may see the folly of their ways. We
                                    are having fine weather now but when across the River [Rappahannock] we had a good
                                    share of rain. I wish I could get to come and see you but it is impossable I have
                                    been trying to get leave to go to 
                                        Washington
                                     for a few days, but it is not in the Books. I suppose we will soon move
                                    again and it is reported that General Hooker has again crossed the River. I think
                                    not, for a great many Regiments have left for home, their time haveing expired and I
                                    do not see why we should move before we get men to fill up the Regiments. I suppose
                                    you have seen a account of Gen Milroys Sword given by our Regiment. I have no news
                                    to tell you only that all again is quiet. Write soon and all of the news.
                        
                                    Your aff Bro.,
                                    J. H. Hollis
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Frederick City, Md.,
                           
                                    July 13th 1863
                                
                        Dear Brother,8
                        
                        I received last night five letters, one from you, one from Father, also one from
                                    Mother. Yours the 24th of June, Father's the 25th, Mother's July 6th. they all found
                                    me well I have been with the Baggage train since on the march. I had no place
                                    assigned to me so I took up with the opportunity to ride here, or I would have to go
                                    afoot as they have taken my horse. I have done nothing since this Batry was in the
                                    Battle of Gettysburgh.9 We had eight wounded, all from the old
                                    11th but one they were all slight wounded but one he was shot through the abdomen.
                                    The Batry is now at South M[o]untain where I suppose there will soon be a Bloody
                                    Battle. Six hundred prisoners came in yesterday. They are getting badly whipped. Dix
                                    is 
                              
                                 7 Battle of Chancelloreville. This letter was written
                                            a few days after the end of the Battle.
                              
                                 8 Heber R. Hollis to Thomas Hollis.
                              
                                 9 This letter was written on the tenth day after the
                                            close of the great battle at 
                                                Gettysburg
                                            .
                           
                                     re-enforcing Mead10 here
                                    with 110,000 men. We are some 25 miles from the Battlefield. We hear no news today
                                    as yet but some heavy firing in that direction. I wrote Father the 11th. I see by
                                    the papers that they are going into your state. Morgan and someone, I have forgotten
                                    who. everything looks like a speedy close to the war of which we are getting tired
                                    of but the late successes gives us new life. 
                                        Providence
                                     seemed to favor us. We are having heavy rains which keeps up the River
                                    [Potomac] so that they [Confederates] cannot get back to 
                                        Virginia
                                    . Everywhere our troops go the houses are turned into bake shops. The
                                    people of 
                                        Penna
                                     are very particular about getting pay for the Rails and what the
                                    Soldiers destroy. They are a penourious set, charge enormous prices for everything.
                                    the people of Md., if we were to judge by actions, are the most loyal. there was
                                    three spies hung here on Tuesday last. They hung three days. We have got two more.
                                    One said before he swung he would of had all of our wagons captured if we had let
                                    him gone two hours longer. this is a very nice little place. We have the 
                                        Baltimore
                                        Pike
                                     from here to the Battlefield so that we have good Roads to send
                                    supplies to the army. I heard from Joel11 on Tuesday last. He
                                    was well. this is a very wet day & my paper is damp so that I cant write on
                                    it very well so you will have to excuse this poorly written letter. tell Father I
                                    will answer his letter in a few days. Also give them my love & accept a
                                    share.
                        
                                    From your Affct. Brother
                                    Heber
                                
                        Direct: 11th N. Y. Batry 4th Brigade Vol. Div. Reserve Arty Army of
                                Potomac
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Near Warrenton Junction 12
                              
                           
                                    Sept. 9th 1863
                                
                        Dear Brother,13
                        
                        Your kind letter of the 3d reached me this P. M. finding me well
                                    & all O. K. The Weather is dry. We need Rain very much. We are lying Still.
                                    Nothing doing. All eyes are turned towards 
                                        Charleston
                                    . I hope she may soon fall. I had a letter from Bro Joel14 on Sunday last. he was well & confident of Success. May God
                                    protect him. I do not think we will move until 
                                        Charleston
                                     does fall for we have sent a great many troops down there. I wish we
                                    were among them but it may all be for the best.
                        If you get the position as Hospital Steward you will find you have a good one,
                                    & it will be easier than to carry a musket. I had a letter 
                              
                                 10 General George Gordon Meade was in command of the
                                            Union forces at 
                                                Gettysburg
                                            . General Dix mentioned at the beginning of the sentence, was
                                            John A. Dix of 
                                                New York
                                            .
                              
                                 11 J. H. Hollis. who was soon to be sent from 
                                                Virginia
                                             with the forces that were to attempt to take
                                                    
                                    Charleston,
                                                    South Carolina
                                 .
                              
                                 12 A junction on the 
                                                Orange
                                             and 
                                                Alexandria
                                             Railroad eight miles from Warrenton. A spur railroad connected
                                            Warrenton with the O. & A. it. R.
                              
                                 13 "Heber R. Hollis to Thomas Hollis.
                              
                                 14 J. H. Hollis, now with the Union forces before
                                            charleston, S. C.
                           
                                     from Mother yesterday. She was rather poorly.
                                    Her side she thought was getting worse. I advised her to go to — 15 again & let Dr. Hubbard cure her. I told her she
                                    might have money if she needed it, but she thinks she ought not to take it. I laugh
                                    at her. She says I will need it when the war is over, but as long as I can spare her
                                    pain & make her comfortable I don't care if it takes all I can
                                    earn. She is welcome to it. She has earned it taking care of me in my younger days,
                                    but may God spare us as a Family that we may meet again on earth, if not let us be
                                    prepared to meet in the next world where there is no war. Live near to God, Dear
                                    Brother, & trust in Him. He will hear your prayers. You are now in the way
                                    of temptation. be careful, watch, and pray lest you enter the paths of wickedness.
                                    Pray for me & all of us and may God in his infinite goodness spare us to
                                    meet again, is the prayer of your Affectionate Brother Heber.
                         Direct Heber R. Hollis 11th N. Y. Battry 1st Brigade Vol. Div. Artillery Reserve Army of Potomac.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Department of the South
                              Folly Island,16 S. C.
                           
                                    
                              Sept. 9th 1863
                                
                        Dear Brother,17
                        
                        As it has been some time since I have heard from you and just receiving a letter from
                                    Father giving me your address, I will drop you a line and let you know I am yet in
                                    the land of the living but a good ways down in "Dixie". Little did
                                    I think of haveing the extreme pleasure of helping takeing the City of 
                                        Charleston
                                     but so it is to be. We arrived here upon the 13th of August and have
                                    had the pleasure of helping take the great Fort Wagoner. Morris Island is all ours
                                    now, with it Ft. Wagoner, Ft. Gregg and Sumter. it is knocked into a pile of rubish and brick, the Fort will be of no use to us, and there
                                    is many Forts yet to take before we get into the great City. they tell us that the
                                    people in there has no very kind feeling for the "Yanks", but we
                                    shall see before long. Gen. Gilmore never undertakes a thing without puting it
                                    through, and when he has taken one of the strongest Forts in the Country, what is
                                    the use in people saying that he can not take 
                                        Charleston
                                    .18 the boys here are all in good spirits and are
                                    confident in their General. Now I want to ask you what are you
                                    doing down in Indiana Keeping down Copperheads? I would like much to hear from you
                                    and know how you like a Soldier's life, but you will not see much Service,
                                    I don't suppose. I wish you all the luck in the world. Write and tell me
                                    all. We are haveing a fine time down here 
                              
                                 15 It is not possible to make out the name (or
                                            abbreviation of the name) of the town indicated.
                              
                                 16 An island along the coast south of Morris Island
                                            which is just south of Charles-ton harbor.
                              
                                 17 J. H. Hollis to Thomas Hollis.
                              
                                 18 Charleston was not evacuated by Confederates until
                                            Feb. 18, 1865, after General Sherman had severed all of the city's
                                            inland connections,
                           
                                     bathing in the Salt water. The Mosquitoes will
                                    not let you get very much rest in day-time but we have Musquitoe Bars for to sleep
                                    in under. We use very large Guns here, the kind that throw nail kegs. I am of the
                                    opinion that the Southern gents do not like very well the kind of Shot that we throw
                                    into their forts. The little Monotors do their share. it is worth a good deal to a
                                    man to See the Sights here. I suppose the people of the North are all anxious to
                                    hear from here. How is the Copperheads in old Ind? They are getting worse in 
                                        Ohio
                                     and will try hard to elect 
                                        Val
                                     for Gov. but I do not believe they can do it. There is none of that
                                    kind of men here. They is two or three Negro Regts here. They make good Soldiers and
                                    save the white soldiers a good deal of hard work. They make a fine appearance on
                                    drill. I am in for the Black Soldier. I say bring them on. You must write when you
                                    can. I am [in] some hurry this morning So excuse short letter. Direct to Folly
                                    Island, S. C Gordon's Division, Via Port Royal. I am as ever, your Aff
                                    Bro.,
                        
                                    J. H. Hollis
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Near Petersburgh, Va.,
                           
                                    July 3d 1864
                                
                        Dear Brother,19
                        
                        Your favor of June 21st came to hand yesterday finding me in good
                                    health but not the best of spirits, for we had just got the news of our Cavalry
                                    meeting with such poor success on their way back after having accomplished so great
                                    an object, but we must expect some reverses, but this is a sad one for we are not so
                                    well off for Horses as we might be.
                        There is nothing new from our front. We still continue to throw a few shell into
                                    Petersburg, but it don't appear to be accomplishing a great deal. We are
                                    getting pretty well rested, however, a thing which when we came here was very much
                                    needed. The water we get is rather poor being a white clayey color. The country here
                                    is quite level. Dust, there is no end to. We stand very much in need of Rain which I
                                    hope we will get soon.
                        You are correct in thinking this is the roughest Campaign since the War. the like has
                                    never been seen but we now are having a rest & plenty to eat, so we have no
                                    cause for complaint. But the great Question is, how will it terminate. We have lost
                                    a great many men & Lee appears to meet us wherever we go. They (the Johnies)
                                    have got splendid works & positions, which we cannot deny. It may be we can
                                    so hem them in that they will be obliged to evacuate, but this will take a long time
                                    & more men than we have at present.
                        If I were to have it my way, all the Arms that are now Idle should
                                    be manned. there is no use puttering any longer. if they want to put down the
                                    Rebellion let them call men enough at once & crush it, not dally along with
                                    a few thousand at the time. There is where the trouble has always been. We never had
                                    men enough. if in the start if it had been six hundred thousand instead of
                                    seventy-five thousand, the War might of been Stopped at once, but they let them get
                                    arms & 
                              
                                 19 Heber R. Hollis to Thomas Hollis.
                           
                                     Recruits as fast as we would send men for them
                                    to kill off. No, I think Abraham might of put this War down before this. The
                                    Nomination of Abe & Johnson I will say nothing about. I am a soldier
                                    & have nothing to say, but if it is for the best, I hope he may get it, if
                                    not I hope he won't. But time will tell. You know we are of different
                                    politics, & it is something I will not argue on.
                        There is a scarcity of help here to as well as there. Ha! Ha! But you have done your
                                    share. I am glad to hear Charlie20 has escaped all right, but I
                                    fear there will have to be more drafting. While I sit writing we can hear the Boom
                                    of the Cannon of the Rebels. Our men try & not do any firing on this day but
                                    are often obliged to 21 Tomorrow is the Fourth. how I do wish it
                                    was to be a glorious fourth as it was to our forefathers that we might have peace.
                                    Who knows but it may. I fear not, though, but let us pray for a Speedy peace to our
                                    land. Well, dear Brother, I have four more letters to write so you will excuse me
                                    for this time I must write to Joe & —. 22
                                    Write often for you have more time. I am very busy most of the time now, but I will
                                    not work Sunday unless obliged to. So I improve my time writing & reading.
                                    You hear from me often by our folks, in fact when I write I mean it for all so
                                    don't be particular who I direct to. My love to all. Kiss Mother &
                                        Em23 for me. All write soon to Your Afft. Bro.,
                        
                                    Heber
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Fort 
                                    Mitchell
                                 
                                 24 S. C.
                           
                                    July 6th, 1864
                                
                        Dear Brother,
                        I have been looking for a long time for a letter from you but I guess you will not
                                    write untill I send you a few lines and to tell you the truth there is not much to
                                    write about. The expedition that left here has been heard from. They landed on James
                                        Island25 and have taken all but Fort Johnston26 on the Island. If they get that, Charles-ton will be one of the Citys
                                    that was. Our loss is reported to be very heavy but I hope it may prove less than
                                    report says. Our Reg't being on pickit duty we did not get to go, and it
                                    may all be for the best as the losses have been very great. In fact, our
                                    Reg't has been very lucky. Since its re-inlistment we came to this
                                    Department from 
                                        Virginia
                                     when at the same time troops were going from here to 
                                        Virginia
                                    .
                        We are very pleasantly located but the weather is extreamly hot. I would much prefer
                                    being farther North but I will have to be satisfied to remain where Uncle Sam sens
                                    me. I am very tired of Soldiering. A year or two ago I did think I would be a
                                    Soldier all my life, 
                              
                                 20 Charles Hollis, another of the four Hollis
                                            brothers.
                              
                                 21 July 8, 1884, fell on Sunday.
                              
                                 22 The name cannot be made out.
                              
                                 23 Emma Hollis. sister of the writer. Emma became the
                                            wife of Thomas Hanna who was elected Lieutenant Governor of Indiana in 1880,
                                            and re-elected in 1884.
                              
                                 24 Fort Mitchell was one of the centers near 
                                                Charleston
                                             Harbor from which Union forces operated.
                              
                                 25 James Island is a large island between Morris
                                            Island and the mouth of Ashley River.
                              
                                 26 Fort Johnson was at northeast corner of James
                                            Island about one and one half miles west of Fort Sumter.
                           
                                     but I find I am a great deal broken down and
                                    cannot stand exposeure like I once could. I would have been better satisfied if I
                                    could have visited home when in 
                                        Ohio
                                    . I shall get out if I can, if not., I shall remain and do my duty.
                        What a change has come over our country in the last few years! There is many in our
                                    States that are disloyal to our Flag. There will be a heavy contest fought this fall
                                    for the Presidentcy and every loyal man should do all he can for his country and put
                                    down this Copperheadism. You can do much, be on the side of right, and God will
                                    reward you.
                        Give my love to all, Father, Mother & Sister. Write when you can. Chas. does
                                    not write any to me and it has been a long time since I have heard from you. Hoping
                                    that this may find you all well, I am Aff your Brother,
                        
                                    J. H. Hollis
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Head Quarters 3d Div. 9th Army Corps
                              Before Petersburg, Va.,
                           
                                    July 29th 1864
                                
                        Friend Tom:27
                        
                        By this time you think that I have quite forgotten you, and I acknowledge that you
                                    have good cause for thinking so, and have often wished that it could be otherwise,
                                    but "business has to come before pleasure" now.
                        I have, since my last writing, received three letters from you with much pleasure,
                                    and will now do the best I can towards answering them and also let you know what I
                                    have been doing all this time.
                        The last time I wrote you (lay that blot to a dose of "Spiritus
                                    I'rumento" just taken) I was at Hd. Qrs. 2d Div. lying around at 
                                        Annapolis
                                     with nothing to do but play euchre from morning till night. We were
                                    kept in this way until the 20th of April, when the Corps was organized into four
                                    Divisions, and the 3d assigned to Gen. Wilcox. We were then
                                    ordered to prepare at once for the field and on April 23d left for 
                                        Alexandria
                                    , the troops marching and the baggage going by water. On the 27th of April we left 
                                        Alexandria
                                     and marched to Warrenton Junction via Fairfax Court House,
                                    Blackburne's Ford, and Bristoe Station, arriving on the 29th. May 4th we left the Junotion [Warrenton] under orders to
                                    join the Army of the Potomac and marched across the Rappahanock and Rapidan to the
                                        Wilderness,28 where we were heavily engaged on the 6th, and
                                    Capt. Hutchins and Major Lyon of this staff wounded. May 7th we
                                    moved for Spottsylvania C. H. via Chancellorsville and on the 9th
                                    arrived at the Ny River, crossed and became engaged with the enemy. We were about
                                    Spottsylvania, all the time changing position and engaged more or less until May
                                        21st when we took up our line of march for the North Anna
                                    River, where we relieved a Div. of the 2d Corps at Ox Ford. There
                                    we lay until the 26th when we again moved to 
                                        Hanover
                                     Town 
                              
                                 27 Frank W. Knowles to Thomas Hollie.
                              
                                 28 The Wilderness campaign took place in the country
                                            eouth of the Rapidan and west of 
                                                Fredericksburg
                                            .
                           
                                     across the Pamunkey River, made a
                                    reconnoisance, found the enemy and on the 30th & 31st attacked near Shady Grove Road driving the enemy some distance.
                                    On June 1st the enemy attacked us, but they were repulsed. During
                                    that engage, Lt. Brackett was slightly wounded in the knee and the Genl. had a very
                                    narrow escape, as a ball went through his coat, vest, and both shirts without
                                    touching him. Next day (June 2d) we started for Cold Harbor, but
                                    did not succeed in getting half way as the Rebs attacked us near Bethsada Church,
                                    and got a good thrashing for their trouble. We fought on the 2d
                                    and 3d and then went on to Cold Harbor, as the Johnnies left
                                    before daylight on the 4th. We were at Cold Harbor from the 5th to the 12th of June, during which time we
                                    built a large Redoubt on our front, and did some damage to the enemy, but on the
                                    evening of the 12th we commenced our march to the James, crossed
                                    on the 15th at Windmill Point, and moved here to the support of
                                    the 18th Corps. On the 17th and 18th we fought the hardest battle of this campaign. The General was wounded
                                    on the 18th by a piece of shell, in the leg, but would not leave
                                    the field. Another of our Staff whom you do not know, was slightly injured on the
                                        17th and one of the orderlies killed. Our Act'g.
                                    Engineer Officer was killed at North Anna River, and the Capt. who took Maj.
                                    Lyon's place while he is on leave, was wounded on the 6th
                                    of this month.
                        What has been done here since the engagements of the 17th and 18th ult. is contraband news, but you will probably hear from us
                                    very soon, if I can be any judge of the "signs of the times."
                        I have been kept as busy as it was possible to be since we have been here in copying
                                    the records of the Division, which had to be kept on paper during the previous
                                    active part of the campaign, be-sides that I had the back Returns to make up and
                                    altogether they have given me no time to write private letters, hardly a chance to
                                    keep the folks at home posted. Yesterday I succeeded in getting a clerk to help me,
                                    and now hope to have a little more time to myself. My records are all written up
                                    except my "Letters Received" and in that I have only a half a
                                    month's work to copy.
                        I was very glad to hear of your good luck on your trip over the mountains and safe
                                    arrival home.29 We often wondered how "Tom was getting
                                    along" during your trip. Your letter of April 10th came
                                    along about a month after yours of April 21st and the last not a
                                    great while ago. I suppose that your sister thinks that I am never intending to
                                    answer her letter, but I shall, just as soon as I can get accounts straightened out
                                    and the work again in running order. Until that time comes, I have to write all my
                                    letters about this time (midnight) and it is rather difficult to write a decent
                                    letter after being steadily at work all day (This one is sufficient proof of that).
                                    Now I suppose you would like to know what has become of the boys. Well, Tebo is
                                    clerking in 
                                        Knoxville
                                     at Hd. Qrs. 3d Division, 23d Corps,
                                    getting along well and having a good time. George Hall is a saddler with the Train,
                                    Charley Walmsby and Jimmy are out of the Service but Jimmy is still with the captain
                                    having brought his horse on for 
                              
                                 29 Thomas Hollis had been associated with Knowles at
                                            the Siege of 
                                                Knoxville
                                             In 1868.
                           
                                     him when he came back from the
                                    "leave," that he got on account of his wound. John is still
                                    driving team in the 2d Division, I believe. Tony got drunk the
                                    morning that we left 
                                        Annapolis
                                     and stole a horse, was arrested, and as his time is now out, I
                                    don't know where he is. Charley Kern took care of the General's
                                    horses until he went home. Charley Chase is still at Corps Hd.Qrs., and as jolly as
                                    ever.
                        We have a young fellow from 
                                        Boston
                                    , a friend of the Doctor's and a member of the 56th Mass., a new Regt. He occasionally gets me a bottle of Spiritus
                                    Frumenti and then we draw a ration once in a while. The Sanitary is here and there
                                    are more Sutlers than there were in the 
                                        Tennessee
                                     Campaign. It has been awful hot and dry ever since we have been here,
                                    in fact, we have only had two days of rain since the 26th of May,
                                    so you can imagine how we are getting along in that line. Rations are plenty as they
                                    always are in the Army of the Potomac. Soft bread every other day, beans, potatoes,
                                    onions, cabbages, beets, turnips, fresh beef, salt beef, hard tack, sugar, coffee,
                                    tea, and whiskey. Then the Sanitary Commission let us have a few pickels,
                                    &c. occasionally. Well, my letter is being spun into a yarn, and as we are
                                    expecting a row here in about three hours, I suppose I had better get a little sleep
                                    before I get awakened at 3 A. M. Give my kind regards to your sister Em (for short).
                        
                                    And believe me your true friend,
                                    Frank W. Knowles
                                
                        Write soon to the address of: Care of Brig. Genl. O. B. Willcox Hd.Qrs. 3d Div. 9th Army Corps Army of the
                                Potomac
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Head Quarters 3d Div. 9th A. Corps
                              Blicks Station Va.
                           
                                    August 24th 1864
                                
                        Tom,30
                        
                        Yours of the 14th was received this morning and not knowing "what a day may
                                    bring forth" to prevent my writing, I think that I will answer it
                                    immediately.
                        Since my last, our quiet good times have been somewhat disturbed. The night I wrote
                                    you July 29th I was up until about 21/2 o'clock and then
                                    after a short nap got up at 4 A. M. on the 30th just as the
                                    General and staff rode off. At 20 minutes of 5 o'clk the mine under the
                                    rebel fort was exploded, which was a signal for the artillery to open, and such a
                                    roar as run along the line I never before heard. This, with the 1st and 2nd Div. charged on the breach caused by the
                                    explosion, and carried the line on each side of the fort for a short distance but
                                    after that, no advantage was gained. Our 4th Div. (Nigs) came up,
                                    and attempted a charge but rushed back in confusion, and at 3 P.M. we retired to our
                                    own line. During the engagement I was at an Earthwork about 800 yds. from tie point
                                    of assault and had a splendid view of the fight. I would like very much to have you
                                    see this campaign, just to show you a little of what war realy is. In our famous 
                                        Tennessee
                                     Campaign we only saw marching and short rations, which is the worst
                                    side of the picture. That reminds me of
                        
                           
                              30 Knowles to Thomas Hollis.
                        
                        
                        Tebo who wished me to give you his respects and ask you to write; his address is:
                        Tebo Schwinden Jr.
                        Head Quarters 14th Div. 23 Army Corps
                        
                                    
                                        Knoxville
                                    
                                
                        Box 179 East 
                                        Tennessee
                                    
                        
                        and he can tell you much better than I where he is and what he is doing.
                        After the Engagement of the 30th ult, we lay quiet for a few days and then 
                                        Hancock
                                     with the 2d Corps was sent off to Deep Bottom on our
                                    right, where the Enemy's attention was engaged when, on the 18th, 
                                        Warren
                                     with his 5th Corps was suddenly pushed off on the
                                    left to this place where the[y] tore up the Rail Road and raised old nick generally.
                                    On the morning of the 19th at 3 o'clock this Div. marched
                                    and on the 19th and 20th helped to whip the Rebels most beautifully when they tried
                                    to regain their lost ground.
                        
                           
                                        Richmond
                                     papers of yesterday seem to feel very desponding. The[y] report 5
                                    generals killed or taken prisoners.
                        It is beginning to rain, and I must put up my paper as I don't feel like
                                    getting wet and have nothing but a fly to write under. Will finish at the first
                                    opportunity.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Hd Qurs 1st Div 9th A Corps
                              Near Peebles House Va
                              
                           
                                    Oct 9th 1864
                                
                        I promised to finish at the first opportunity after the above was written, and that
                                    time has come.31 The day after the first part of this letter was
                                    written I had the misfortune to break the silver clasp on my teeth, and accordingly,
                                    have obtained a Surgeon's Certificate from Dr. O'Connell, I
                                    applied for and obtained a furlough of 30 days. I should have sent this before I
                                    went, but the fight with the 2nd Corps happened on Aug. 25th and our Div. had to
                                    pack up and go to their support, and not get the desk out again until about 15
                                    minutes before I started for City Point on the 26th of August. After spending three
                                    weeks very pleasantly at home I came back arriving at the Weldon R. R. on the 25th
                                    of September. In my absence the Divisions of this Corps have been changed making
                                    three Divisions and numbering this one the 1st in stead of 3rd theretofore. Soon after my arrival, that is a few days, we got
                                    orders to be ready to move and on Sept. 30th we moved to this place, took two lines
                                    of works and established a line of our own. Yesterday the whole Corps went out about
                                    two miles on a recconnoisance in force, to feel of the enemy and met with but little
                                    resistance,
                        While at home I had a chance to see some few young ladies, but from some cause, I do
                                    not feel so much interest in the sex—except in some cases—as I
                                    did before I left home. Perhaps that is on account of being for so long a time
                                    deprived entirely of their society. The Dr. Richards (Now Capt. Richards) and
                                    Brackett are still here. Capt. Hutchins, having never fully recovered from his wound
                                    in the thigh on May 6th, has gone home again on leave. Geo. Hall
                                    came up from the 
                              
                                 31 It will be noticed that a long period (over seven
                                            weeks) passed between the writing of the first and second portions of this
                                            letter.
                           
                                     train and made me a short call today. He is the
                                    same old Hall. The men in Veteran's Regiments who did not reenlist are
                                    getting mustered out now, and that makes the Vets. mad. Thanks for those stamps
                                    which you sent me, for they came in very good time.
                        Please excuse the looks of this for it was all written in a hurry and has been folded
                                    more than a month.
                        Give my kind regards to your sister. The exigencies of the service will not permit me
                                    to write private letters very often, and that is my reason for not having written to
                                    her for so long.
                        
                                    I remain Your friend
                                    Frank
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Head Qrs. 1st Div. 9th A. C
                           
                                    Jan. 6th 1865
                                
                        Friend Tom,32
                        
                        One of the clerks is away on furlough but I think that be catching leisure moments I
                                    may be able to get a letter written before the mail goes out, tonight. I think the
                                    General should be sent to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     again (and take me with him) to keep those butternuts, copperheads,
                                    & c., in their proper places. I don't know what has be-come of
                                    Tebo—I wrote him befor I went home on furlough, and have not heard a word
                                    from him since. Think he must have left 
                                        Knoxville
                                     and not received my letter. Have you got an answer yet?
                        About that correspondent. I have not seen a letter yet. Did you find it hard work to
                                    get a young lady who would write to a strange soldier?
                        You asked me how I was to spend Christmas and I will tell you. Of course you know it
                                    was Sunday. On that day we do no work except to appoint the officer of the Day,
                                    therefore we spent the morning in loafing, after a dinner of cold boiled pork
                                    (salt), hard tack, and coffee we spent the afternoon in the same useful (?)
                                    employment. Just before dark Major Hutchins went out visiting and left me as A. A.
                                    Genl. to stay in his tent until he returned. There I found an interesting book and
                                    passed the evening in reading. I have not had so blue a day since
                                    I have been in the Army as that was.
                        New Year's Day was a little better. On New Year's Eve the clerks in
                                    the other office got 3 canteens of whiskey and about mid-night raised the old Nick
                                    and when I went in and tried to stop them, they wanted me to have a dance. We (in
                                    the A. A. G. 0.) sat up until 2 o'clock, and got up a fine piece of
                                    penmanship. (It was not written with a quill, and I don't wish you to
                                    consider this a sample) which we scrolled and fixed up with birds, eagles,
                                    &c. &c. and laid it on Major Hutchin's table before he got
                                    up in the morning.
                        We had determined that we would not have so poor a dinner, as that on Christmas, and
                                    had accordingly got flour, apples, raisins, &c. and had two gigantic
                                    dumplings (it took two camp kettles to boil them in) and as there was no wine, had a
                                    whiskey sauce instead. I thought I was temperance man enough, but one of the clerks
                                    was so extremely temperate that he had to have some sauce made especially 
                              
                                 32 Knowles to Thomas Hollis.
                           
                                     for him, that had no whiskey in it. I have not
                                    had anything so strong for three months, except some which Maj.
                                    Hutchins sent in Christmas Eve from a demijohn that was sent him by some friends in 
                                        New York
                                    , and again two drinks New Year's Eve. Don't you think
                                    I shall come out all right?
                        Is your sister at college now? I hope she does not get hold of any of my letters, for
                                    they are a strange mixed up mess of stuff.
                        The boxes which should have been here a week ago came along last night, and we have
                                    accordingly been having a New Year's dinner today.
                        I don't think I have told you of the change in rank of several of this
                                    staff. O. B. W. is now Brevt. Maj. Genl. Richards a Bvt. Major as also Capt.
                                    Hutchins, and Brackett is not only a Bvt. Capt. but also a Capt. by Commission in
                                    the 57th Mass.
                        Geo. Hall is still in the land of the living and about the same as ever.
                        Do you ever go to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    ? If you do, and will call at No. 1 Alvords Block on Penn. St., you will
                                    find a Miss Webster who will at any time be glad to hear any thing from Knowles or
                                    tell you anything she may have heard concerning him. I believe 'that I gave
                                    you a note to carry to her when you left us in Term. One year ago tonight Genl Grant
                                    spent at our Head Qrs. near Maynardsville 33 How many things
                                    have happened since then, and how those who were then together are now separated.
                                    But I must not be getting sentimental. It is 9 o'clock P. M. and I have
                                    done better than I expected in catching moments to write. I have now got to get up
                                    an order convening a court martial, and must be at work so as to get to bed.
                        
                                    I remain yours truly,
                                    Frank W. Knowles
                                
                        Direct: Frank W. Knowles Head Qrs. 1st Div. 9th A. Corps Army of the Potomac
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Head Quarters
                              1st Div. 9th A. Corps
                           
                                    March 5th 1865
                                
                        Friend Tom,34
                        
                        Yours of the 22d ult. came to hand in due season, and as you wished me to write soon
                                    I will improve this first opportunity.
                        Am glad to hear that young ladies like my penmanship, though I cannot remember
                                    writing to any of them. However, should be very happy to have an opportunity of
                                    seeing a specimen from them with a few words of encouragement and a name and
                                    address. Do you think any of those fair 'demoiselles would condescend to do
                                    me this favor?
                        I didn't know that I was writing to a "pupp", and "can't see it" yet. Perhaps
                                    that is because the afternoon is almost gone, and "daylight now is fading
                                    fast away".
                        
                           
                              33 A town in East 
                                            Tennessee
                                        , about 23 miles north of 
                                            Knoxville
                                        
                           
                           
                              34 Knowles to Thomas Hollis.
                        
                        
                        There, Tom, you have made a mistake for once in your life, if never before. Miss
                                    Webster is no more a friend to me than any other of my lady acquaintances, in fact
                                    not quite so much of a friend as some I could mention, and I am most happy to assure
                                    you that she never will be nearer than she is now. I'll
                                    not trouble you to call there, until I get another letter and see how the land lies.
                                    I get along very comfortable in thinking I have—
                        No one to love, none to caress:
                        None to respond to this heart's tenderness except a few honorable
                                    exceptions.
                        But I am getting too sentimental for this letter, and think I will come down, and see
                                    if I can write a little more sensibly.
                        Let me see! You asked for the staff. Surgeon O'Connell left us last
                                    November, and is now in charge of the General Hospital at Hart Island, 
                                        New York
                                     Harbor, and I understand that he likes [it] there very much, not having
                                    much to do, and plenty of time to promenade 
                                        Broadway
                                    . Surg. Hogan Ussols is our Medical Director, and he has a clerk who was
                                    a physician when at home.
                        Brevet Major Hutchins is still with us and is about the same as when we were in 
                                        Tennessee
                                    . His wound, received at the Wilderness on the 6th of
                                    May last, has not yet healed, and is so troublesome that he's confined to
                                    his tent, and to his bed also, nearly all the time. If he does not get any better
                                    soon, he will have to go home.
                        The General and Brackett are away on leave and Bvt. Major Richards is Judge Advocate
                                    of the Division.
                        I can't stop to write any more now for there is a citizen here just from
                                    home and I must go out and hear how the folks are.
                        Hoping that I shall hear from you again as soon as convenient, I remain,
                        
                                    Your friend,
                                    Frank W. Knowles
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Head Qrs. 1st Div. 9th A. Corps
                              Petersburg, Va.,
                           
                                    April 4, 1865
                                
                        Dear Tom,
                        Your cheering letter came to hand some five minutes ago and I will write you a few
                                    words now as we are to be relieved in the morning by a Div. of niggers and I suppose
                                    we shall at once take the front again. The 2d Brig, of this Div.
                                    was the first to enter this city yesterday morning, and this Div. was left to guard
                                    the city and R. R. while the other troops followed the retreating enemy. This is a
                                    much larger place than 
                                        Knoxville
                                     and there are many fine residences. I shall take heed to your advice.
                                    Only four months and a bit now. Everything looks
                                    bright.
                        The Presdt went to 
                                        Richmond
                                     this morning.
                        I was not at all downhearted about Miss Webster. She is not of enough account for that, and I should probably never have seen her again any way.
                        Please give my love to your sister. Thought she had forgotten me. Suppose your
                                    brother has gone on with the 2d Corps, and you  will probably not be able to get a letter from him very
                                    soon. Excuse this paper, it is the first that came to hand.35
                                    Gen. Grant has gone on with the Army. When I write again I hope to be able to say
                                    that the C. S. A, is gone under. Gen. Potter is badly wounded. You will remember
                                    that we relieved him from command of the Corps at Straw-berry Plains. My paper is
                                    full and I have no more spare time.
                        
                                    I remain Yours Truly,
                                    Frank W. Knowles
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Head Qrs. 1st Div. 9th A. Corps
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                 , D. C.,
                           
                                    May 14, 1866
                                
                        Friend Tom,36
                        
                        Your letter, before me, is dated April 25th, and here I am answering on the 14th of
                                    May—Well, I consider that almost worthy of a Court
                                    Martial for "neglect of duty." Just prefer charges and it will be
                                    an easy matter to have me tried, as there are twenty-five courts martial now in
                                    session in this city.
                        Let me see, I wrote you last from the city of Petersburg.—What a change
                                    there has been since I left the Friend House in front of Petersburg to go into the
                                    city on the morning of the 3d. of April. First came the chase and capture of Lee,
                                    and then, while rejoicing was at its height, came the news of the nation's
                                    great loss. I suppose it was all for the best, but if it was, I want it also to be
                                    for the best to string up those who are now having their trial down to the arsenal.
                                    This Division, after stopping two days in Petersburg, went out on the South Side
                                    Rail Road and did guard duty until April 20th when the corps left
                                    the front and came to this city. The Dept. of Washington has been divided into
                                    Districts, Genl. Parke commands the 1st and Genl. Wilcox the 2d as also the Division—The A. A. G's. Office
                                    of the Division is in the City, and the rest of the Offices are out with the
                                    Division, so your humble servant is a bummer in the renowned city of red tape 37
                        
                        You speak of the death of Genl. Potter. He was very severely wounded in the groin,
                                    but the last I heard from him, he was doing well. Captain Hutchins is still in 
                                        New York
                                    , but we hope to have him back with us before long. There was an
                                    operation performed, and he came very nearly not living through it, as he had a
                                    slight attack of the lockjaw. None of the staff have been injured in the late
                                    engagements, and they are all doing their best for a good time now—
                        There has been a general rejoicing today over Jeff Davis' capture, the news
                                    of which came last night.
                        The Chronicle of this morning began the first report of the great trial—
                                    There will be much of interest in the reports, though we shall probably not get the
                                    full particulars of the trial until they are published by the War Department.
                        
                           
                              35 Knowles wrote this letter on the back of a sheet made
                                        up of three beautifully printed and engraved blank bills of exchange. The sheet
                                        is 91/2 x 18 inches.
                           
                              36 Knowles to Thomas Hollis.
                           
                              37 A soldier's characterization of 
                                            Washington
                                         in 1865.
                        
                        
                        There is a bummer in here talking to Brackett, and I can't get my wits
                                    together to write.
                        Give my kind regards to your sister.
                        I remain,
                        
                                    Yours,
                                    Frank W. K.
                                
                        Direct Frank W. Knowles Head Qrs. 1st Div. 9th A. Corps 
                                        Washington
                                    , D. C.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              No. 24 Essex St.
                              
                                 
                                    Charlestown
                                 , Mass,38
                              
                           
                                    Sunday, July 30th 1865
                                
                        Friend Tom:
                        Your letter has not been very promptly answered for two reasons: first, because it
                                    was directed to 
                                        Washington
                                     and did not reach there before I left, and consequently was not
                                    received until quite late; and secondly, because my coming home after so long an
                                    absence has made me feel much more like spending my time in talking than writing.
                        On the 8th ult. the 64th Mass. Vols. was mustered
                                    out and ordered to Readville,—the state rendezvous—I, with six
                                    others of my company who had been detailed as clerks got separate transportation on
                                    an order from Corps Hd.Qrs., and came home on our own hook. Charlie Chase was one of
                                    the party. You will remember him as the Hosp. Steward of the Corps when you was with
                                    us in Tenn. We started twenty-four hours later than the reg. but passed them in 
                                        New York
                                     and came on home where we arrived on Saturday evening (the 10th). On Monday our old comrades who had been discharged during the
                                    three years, got up a reception and dinner for my company, and on the next day the
                                    whole regiment was received in 
                                        Worcester
                                    , after which we were dismissed to meet again and be paid off on the
                                        22d of June.
                        After we were paid off I looked around for work and obtained a situation, on the 3d inst., as asst. book keeper in a dry goods house in 
                                        Boston
                                    . Have been constantly at work since that date and feel a little run
                                    down under the confinement, but like it very well thus far.
                        Tuesday Evening—
                        I was called away Sunday evening, and as we went out serenading last evening, my
                                    letter is two days old. When my company went away [to war] we had a glee club of
                                    about twelve voices, and the four that have reached home in safety have an
                                    occasional sing to remember old scenes by.
                        I suppose that by this time your brother has been mustered out. I hope so at least.
                        I have not heard a word from Tebo39 and don't know
                                    whether 
                              
                                 38 A few weeks after the surrender of Lee, Knowles was
                                            mustered out of the service. He had been at home but a short time when he
                                            wrote this letter to his friend Thomas Hollis.
                              
                                 39 "Tebo" was the name (possibly a
                                            nickname) of a comrade of Knowles and Thomas Hollis in the 
                                                Knoxville
                                             campaign of 1868. His name is given as "Tebo
                                            Schwinden" in the letter of Aug. 24. 1864.
                           
                                     he is alive or dead. I think that he must have
                                    been with Sherman, but when that army was reviewed I saw nothing of his Battery.
                        If you ever should be traveling in this direction, I should be much pleased to have
                                    you give me a call. I am such a stay-at-home kind of fellow that I never expect to
                                    get even as far west as Indiana again.
                        My supper is ready and I must leave. There is no news to write just now. Everybody
                                    has been to see Gen. Grant who has been here for the past two days. He went down to 
                                        Portland
                                     this morning.
                        Remember me to your sister.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    Frank
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Boston
                                 ,
                           
                                    October 23d 1865
                                
                        Tom.
                        Your last came to hand in due season, and I was very glad to hear of your present
                                    prosperity and future prospects, and to know, from that, that soldiers are not
                                    considered to be a demoralized set of vagabonds as a great many here seem to think.
                                    It is almost impossible now for a young man to get a good and lucrative position who
                                    has passed his three years in the army.
                        I know several young men who have tried to obtain employment, both here and in 
                                        New York
                                    , to whom the answer has been, "We don't employ
                                        soldiers."40
                        
                        I am getting along about as usual. Last week I was laid up for a few days and tried
                                    hard to have a fever, but a good constitution, with the help of a Dr., brought me
                                    through and enabled me to come to work this morning as usual.
                        The trade in dry goods is getting a little dull as the season advances, and I expect
                                    that soon we shall have a little more spare time in the store.
                        The difference between my three past winters and the present one is much greater than
                                    I expected, and even now a greatcoat is a comfort in my walks over the bridge
                                    morning and evening.
                        I should be much pleased to accept your invitation for me to visit you if I could so
                                    arrange matters as to go, but for the present business must come before pleasure.
                                    Nevertheless, should I ever pass that way, Worthington will no
                                    doubt have an opportunity to open her arms.
                        There is not very much of anything going on here at present. The places of amusement
                                    seem to be doing a thriving business, and we certainly have nothing to complain of
                                    in the way of numbers, for there are ten (10) different theatres, minstrel troops,
                                    &c &c now in full blast in the city. Maggie 
                                        Mitchell
                                     is the chief attraction at the present.
                        There I must close for one of the clerks is going to dinner, and I must take his
                                    place.
                        
                           
                              40 These comments have a familiar ring to people who heard
                                        veterans talk following demobilization in 1918-1919.
                        
                        
                        Give my regards to your sister, and "kiss the baby" for
                        
                                    Yours,
                                    Frank W. K.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Boston
                                 ,
                           
                                    July 2d 1866
                                
                        Friend Tom.
                        July has brought with it some splendid weather, and therefore everyone seems to be in
                                    good humor this morning, altho' trade is getting into its dull season, and
                                    people are leaving for the country. If nothing prevents, I shall leave here next
                                    week for a two weeks stay at Cape Cod.
                        Everything has been going quietly with me this season. My evenings are spent mostly
                                    in singing, either at some friend's house, or serenading some fair dam-sel.
                                    I always think of Indiana about the 4th of July and recall the pleasant three months
                                    spent there in '63— It does not seem three years since I left 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     for Camp Nelson where we were to way [wait] for the "Div. of
                                    Re-enforcements Army of the 
                                        Ohio
                                    ."
                        In this month's "Atlantic Monthly" a captain of my
                                    Regiment gives an account of the seige of 
                                        Knoxville
                                     which will no doubt be as interesting to you as it was to me.42
                        
                        My leisure is limited, therefore this must follow suit 43
                        
                        Address according to heading.
                        
                                    Yours,
                                    Frank
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            [A Letter of 1848]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Point Commerce,44 Ia,
                           
                                    March 12th, 1848.
                                
                        Dear Cousin.45
                        
                        Mrs. Throop has been urging me for several weeks to write to you, and in compliance
                                    with her repeated importunities to-day, I have concluded to spend a portion of this
                                    lovely Sabbath Evening in conversing with you upon paper. Epistolary writing has
                                    become quite a task of late, mainly to be attributed, no doubt, to the confining
                                    nature of my present business, and its influence upon my health, which has suffered
                                    materially of late. Indeed if it were not from sheer necessity, I would abandon it,
                                    and follow a more healthful and intellectual pursuit, and one more congenial to my
                                    taste, and inclination. But we are in a good degree creatures of circumstances, or
                                    if you prefer the term 
                              
                                 41 The letter-head indicates that Knowles was employed
                                            by the firm of Hogg, 
                                                Brown
                                            , & Taylor, Successors to Kinmoth & Co.,
                                            Importers and Dealers in American, British. French and German Dry Goods, 299
                                            & 301 
                                                Washington
                                             Street, and 22 Temple Place. 
                                                Boston
                                            .
                              
                                 42 H. S. Burrage. "The Retreat from
                                            Lenoir's and the Siege of 
                                                Knoxville
                                            ", Atlatic Monthly (July. 1866).
                                            XVIII, 21-52.
                              
                                 43 Knowles was still working for the dry goods firm of
                                            Hogg, 
                                                Brown
                                             and Taylor. As far as known, this short letter was the last
                                            written to Thomas Hollis by Knowles.
                              
                                 44 Point Commerce is located just north of Worthington
                                            on the opposite Bank of Eel River, where it flows into
                                            the West Fork of White River.
                              
                                 45 Harrison N. Throop to his cousin, John T. Throop of
                                            Paoli, Indiana. As stated in the foreword, a daughter of Harrison N. Throop,
                                            Julia Throop, became the wife of Thomas Hollis who received the Civil War
                                            letters from his brothers Joseph H. and Heber Hollis, and Frank W.
                                        Knowles.
                           
                                     of Providences: impelled, it may be, in a
                                    direction we would not pursue and compelled to forego our dearest wishes and most
                                    ardent desires—doubtless for our good, our spiritual, if not our temporal
                                    well-being.
                        But the lessons of instruction, thus imparted, are often disagreeable and unwelcome
                                    & we would fain seek to evade the Providential infliction,
                                    when a contrary course might prove ruinous in the extreme.
                        Well, John, we are Tavern-Keeping. We took possession of the Junction House, on the
                                        1st day of November last, and have had a very considerable
                                    share of Custom, taking the location and the season of the year into the account.
                        But it adds very materially to the weight of my cares and bears more heavily still
                                    upon Mrs. Throop. We are, however, not discouraged, inasmuch as we hope to make it
                                    in some degree profit-able. Our expenses are very heavy, with all the care and
                                    economy we can use but we rather think we shall be able to make something by the
                                    operation. I have made one discovery since in the business of Tavern Keeping, viz,
                                    that it is not a situation calculated in its nature to assist in the cultivation of
                                    personal piety and devotional exercises. I trust, however, that it may not cause me
                                    to decline (much farther, at least,) in my religious enjoyments or to back slide
                                    altogether from the Christian Course I have thus long been striving to pursue.
                        Religion is still at a very low ebb at this place and the dawning of a better day to
                                    us is not yet visible; but we still pray with all the faith we can muster for that
                                    season of refreshment the Church so much needs. May God hasten the day! And bless
                                    the Church abundantly in all her burdens!
                        I have not heard from Father's family lately; they were well when I last
                                    heard.
                        We were much gratified at your visit last Fall, notwithstanding cur crowded situation
                                    at the time; and it would afford us much more gratification now, as we are better
                                    prepared to receive and entertain you comfortably.
                        There will be a letting on our Canal from 
                                        Terre Haute
                                     to this place on the 24th May next; suppose you come
                                    out, John, make a bid for a job and bring your family with you?
                        Give my love to all the Relations individually especially to Cousin Sarah.
                        Mrs. Throop requests to be remembered kindly to Sarah and your-self and to your very
                                    pleasant and agreeable family and is quite anxious to cultivate a further
                                    acquaintance
                        
                                    Yours Truly
                                    H. N. Throop
                                
                         P. S. James Edward wished to know if I had written any thing to Uncle John
                                    about him, and upon being informed, that I had not, he seemed rather displeased.
                                    James in improving some, but cannot walk without crutches. I sent to N. York
                                    & purchased an Electric Magnetic Machine for him and he is now under its
                                    influence. We have some hope it will be beneficial to him. Wallace, Isabel, and the
                                    babe are well. Good night! John T. Throop Esq. YoursHarrison
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               Correspondence between Benjamin Harrison and James G. Blaine, 1882-1893.
                    Collected and edited by Albert T. Volwiler. The American Philosophical Society, 
                        Philadelphia
                    , 1940. Pp. xii, 314, illustrated, $3.50.
            This volume of letters is a by-product of a long period of study devoted to the life of Benjamin
                    Harrison preparatory to the production of a biography of that leader. From the time that Harrison
                    became a 
                        United States
                     Senator until the more famous Blaine served under him as Secretary of State, their
                    paths frequently crossed. The brilliant man from 
                        Maine
                    , though widely known before Harrison rose to prominence, lost his race for the
                    presidency in 1884 by a few hundred popular votes in 
                        New York
                    , while the able attorney from Indiana won in 1888 by a slender margin in the electoral
                    college. These two leaders of the same party were brought into more direct relations after Blaine
                    was given the first place in Harrison's Cabinet. It seemed almost impossible for the
                    younger leader as President not to make the older leader Secretary of State, a place which the
                    latter felt was his by right. Nevertheless, the arrangement led to an awkward and perhaps inevitable
                    estrangement. All this and much more, the author brings out in his "Introduction."
                    The correspondence, which reveals the relations existing between Harrison and Blaine, through a
                    decade, is especially valuable to students of the career of the latter because of the well-known
                    scarcity of Blaine material.
            In collecting, editing, and briefly interpreting this corresponse, Dr. Volwiler has rendered a very
                    distinct service to students of the political history of the period covered. The
                    "Preface" contains statements which should prove very interesting to historical
                    workers, especially to struggling graduate students who have so much to learn as they deal with
                    sources. The correspondence is arranged in five chapters, each headed simply by the years involved.
                    The "Index" will serve well those who may wish to consult the polume.
                        AR who use this correspondence and study Dr. Volwiler's
                    "Introduction," will look anxiously forward to the publication of his life of
                    Benjamin Harrison.
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
         
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Illinois
                         on the Eve of the Seven Years' War, 1747-1755. Edited by Theodore
                    Calvin Pease and Ernestine Jennison. 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library, 
                        Springfield
                    , 1940. Pp. Lii, 977.
            This considerable volume, which is the third of the French Series and Volume XXIX of the Collections of the 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library, represents extremely careful work on the part of the editors.
                    There is a long (forty-one pages) "Introduction" by the editors which is
                    remarkably well written and which shows a keen knowledge of the conditions in the 
                        Illinois
                     country of the period just preceding the Seven Years' War. The documents,
                    which belong to the years from the close of the War of the Austrian Succession to 1755, in which
                    year, the military drama which was to serve as a curtain-raiser to the Seven Years' War
                    occurred, are extremely valuable sources for the student of history who wishes to understand the
                    struggle for supremacy in North America between the French and the British.
            Though most of the documents are French letters (all of which are accompanied by translations), there
                    are a few English documents. The manuscripts, or photostat copies of originals, were mainly obtained
                    from the 
                        Huntington
                     Library at 
                  San Marino, California
               , Archives Nationales in 
                        Paris
                    , the Library of Congress in 
                        Washington
                     and the Public Record Office in 
                        London
                    . A few were obtained from other places. The volume represents a large amount of work on
                    the part of the editors, who have attempted with evident success "to document as
                    elaborately as possible" the period from 1747 to 1755 "as it was reflected in the 
                        Illinois
                     country." The documents are presented in eleven chapters with appropriate
                    headings. There is an adequate index. Including the difficult task of translating the French
                    documents, many of them written by uneducated men, it is hard to see how the
                    editors could have better performed their labors.
            W. O. L.
         
         
            
               Schoolmaster of Yesterday is a book of a reminiscent nature dealing with three
                    school-masters of one family, who together taught in the Schools of Indiana for about a hundred
                    years. The volume has recently come from Whittlesey House (a division of the McGraw-Hill Book
                    Company, N. Y.)  It runs to 359 pages and sells for
                    $2.75. The first of the three schoolmen was Thomas Kennedy, who began teaching in 1820;
                    the second was Benjamin ("Ben") Kennedy; and the third was Millard Fillmore
                    Kennedy, who retired in 1919, but who is still living on a farm near Trafalgar, Indiana. Thomas
                    Kennedy taught for a while in 
                        Putnam
                     County (following a start in 
                        Kentucky
                    ), after which, he and his son and grandson taught in 
                        Johnson County
                    . In his last period of service, Mil-lard F. Kennedy taught in the Trafalgar High
                    School.
            The narrative runs as if from the pen of Millard F. Kennedy, but he had as a collaborator Alvin F.
                    Harlow, an author of considerable experience. It is fair to assume that the third of the Kennedy
                    schoolmasters furnished the information about his own career, what he knew personally about the
                    careers of his father and grandfather, and the sources from which further facts were drawn relative
                    to the two earlier pedagogues of the family. It must also be assumed, no doubt, that the actual
                    writing and the literary quality of the book are to be ascribed to the collaborator, Mr. Harlow.
                    Personal history is popular today, and this story of the experiences of three Hoosier teachers
                    through a rapidly changing century should interest many readers in and out of Indiana. The three
                    Kennedys spanned the period from the crudest frontier stage of the Middle West to the year of the 
                        Versailles
                     Treaty. The treatment of the general development of the century covered, in other
                    fields as well as in education, is enlivened by interesting incidents pertaining to
                        school-room activities of the earlier and later periods. Any reader can while away a number
                    of enjoyable hours with Schoolmaster of Yesterday.
            
               Without Valour, another Civil War romance by Laura Long (Longman's Green
                    and Company, 
                        New York
                    , pp. 244, $2.00) is a volume of light but wholesome reading. The scene is
                    laid in southern Indiana, and the story includes "Copper-heads" along with ardent
                    supporters of the war. The hero of the romance is Richard ("Dick") Clayton, who
                    was too young to become a soldier. His father was a Union soldier, who, after he had lost an arm,
                    returned to his home in Indiana. This Union soldier's best friend became a leading
                    "Copperhead." The ties between the Clayton's and their neighbor, who
                    became very seriously involved with the federal government, and his family were very close. Governor
                     Morton, President Lincoln, Henrietta (Morgan) Duke, and others
                    who played parts in that stormy period are brought into the story. The author's aim has
                    been to portray the intricate relationships that existed between persons who necessarily clashed
                    during the war but who remained deeply concerned about each other. This is the new note in the
                    simple but tragic tale. The author tries to stick closely to the historical facts and does quite
                    well. When handling materials that trained historical workers have a hard time to evaluate, the
                    author of a romance naturally treads on slippery ground. The purpose of the book is good, however,
                    and the author succeeds in demonstrating that not all the good nor all the bad was to be found in
                    either the characters of the patriots or those who disagreed with them.
         
         
            BUTLER UNIVERSITY STRESSES CITIZENSHIP
            At 
                        Butler
                     University, President Daniel S. Robinson and Dr. Roy M. Robbins, head of the department
                    of history and political science, have announced a new program in citizenship. All sophomores will
                    be required to enroll in a full year course in American Government and Citizenship, which will
                    emphasize the development and character of political institutions as well as the rights, duties, and
                    privileges of citizens. Dr. Franklin L. Burdette, formerly of 
                        Princeton
                     University, has been appointed assistant professor and director of the course. Other
                    members of the staff are Assistant Professor 
                        Warren
                     R. Isom, Dr. Albert R. Highley, formerly of Rutgers University, and Dr. David M.
                    Silver, recently of the University of 
                        Illinois
                    .
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages INDIANA FIFTY YEARS AGO
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH
            The conditions prevailing in Indiana in 1890 were quite different from those of 1865. When I invited
                    readers to take a look at Hoosierdom in 1840 and in 1865, I was writing about situations that I knew
                    nothing about from personal observation. In the year 1890, I had been out of high school for a short
                    time. I had not yet been able to go to college, except for a four-months course in bookkeeping that I had taken in a business college. I had found no satisfactory job, and I
                    fear that I took life too seriously for one of my age. I read everything that I could get my hands
                    on in the time that I had at my disposal, but that did not mean a great deal. My
                        opportunity to learn by observation was also sadly limited. I could not travel any and my
                    contacts with people who could have enlightened me in regard to current domestic and world problems
                    were too few. What I say about Indiana as it was a half century ago, must be based
                    largely on what I have learned during the past fifty years.
            The McKinley Tariff Act and the Sherman Silver Purchase Act were passed in 1890, and Hoosiers like
                    most other citizens of the 
                        United States
                     believed that the tariff and money issues were fundamental. It is interesting to
                    reflect today on how little the leaders of the nation sensed what the coming years would bring in
                    the way of economic developments. Benjamin Harrison of Indiana was in the midst of his presidential
                    term. As an able lawyer, he had won political support by his vigorous defense of the existing
                    economic system. He was cold, relentless and uncompromising in his logic. Like nearly all of his
                    class in his day, he was certain that there was nothing wrong with this great country except that it
                    was infested by a good many people who argued vehemently that there were defects in our economic
                    system and offered their panaceas to the public. To Harrison, it was the panaceas that were
                    dangerous, not the alleged defects in our social and economic set-up. Had the able and honest
                    conservative leaders of the Republican and Democratic parties of the 'eighties and
                    'nineties made a determined effort to discover the disease instead of fighting the
                    symptoms, they  might have rendered better service to the
                    generation that was to follow them.
            General Alvin P. Hovey was Governor of Indiana in 1890, having been elected in 1888. He died in
                    November, 1891, and was succeeded by Lieutenant Governor Ira J. Chase. Even to citizens who were
                    living then, these names almost fail to register. It is only to a few of those who reach high
                    stations that history gives more than a line or two. Indiana governors are elected in the years of
                    presidential contests, and, almost invariably, the party that carries the state for its national
                    ticket elects its candidate for governor. In a number of presidential contests since the Civil War,
                    Indiana, being a very doubtful state, played a significant part. Its electoral votes were vigorously
                    sought. The contest of 1888 found the major parties running neck and neck in the country as a whole.
                    Money was poured into pivotal. Indiana, where that election was one to which we can not point back
                    with pride. Vote buying had become common even in country districts and citizens of high standing in
                    both parties indulged in the purchase of "floaters," though one party was able in
                    that campaign, when the protective tariff was the main issue, to raise much more money than the
                    other. The plurality of Harrison over 
                        Cleveland
                     in 1888 was less than 2500 votes. In 1892, 
                        Cleveland
                     carried the state by a plurality a little above 7000. Clearly Indiana was a close state
                    fifty years ago.
            Mainly as a result of the political corruption of 1888, but partly because the reform was spreading
                    over the land, the Indiana Legislature passed the Australian Ballot Act in 1889. I distinctly recall
                    the voting as it was done in 1888 and earlier, when each party prepared its own ballots for the
                    printer. A voter could deposit his ballot in the ballot-box, taking it already folded from his
                    pocket, or he could get it at the window of the polling room and fold it in the presence of others.
                    If a "floater", he could receive his ballot from a vote buyer, or one who
                    understood the bargain that had been made, and deposit it in the box under the scrutiny of the
                    interested watcher. It can be readily understood how the Australian Ballot, though not perfect, is
                    far better than the so-called secret balloting system which it superceded.
            The population of Indiana by the census of 1890 was 2,192,404, the gain for the decade being much
                    smaller than for any previous decade since that from 1820 to' 1830. The  state was gaining, but not rapidly. It seemed that Indiana was destined
                    to remain mainly agricultural. This would mean that the state would escape extensive industrialism
                    with rapid growth of urban centers. It would also mean that a very large percentage of the young
                    people born and reared in the state would be drawn away year by year and decade by decade. In truth,
                    while there has been industrial expansion in the state, the growth in population has not been rapid
                    since 1890. Following the census of 1870, the number of members in the national House
                        of Representatives was increased from eleven to thirteen, giving Indiana fifteen
                    presidential electors. Since that increase, there has never been another but because of the relative
                    rate of population growth, a decrease came after 1930. The number of Representatives being reduced
                    to twelve, Indiana elected but fourteen electors in 1932 and in 1936, and will choose that number in
                    the present year.
            To the new generation of today, the Indiana of 1890 must seem more like that of 1865, or 1840, than
                    like the present Indiana. Life in this new stream-lined age seems to center so much around
                    automobiles, radios, moving pictures, airplanes, electrical appliances, purchases wrapped in
                    cellophane and mechanized warfare that existence in 1890 would seem like living in another world or
                    age. Nevertheless, something can be said in favor of the situation in that faraway time. Food,
                    clothing, fuel, leisure, entertainment, books, education-all these could be had at much less expense
                    than now. To a great degree, the essentials of a comfortable and interesting life were available to
                    people in that day. It is to a large extent the multitude of non-essentials, which must be obtained
                    at any sacrifice now, that were lacking to the people of 1890. Furthermore, it must be admitted that
                    the marvelous inventions that have come in the last fify years are not all beneficial to mankind.
                    Indeed, some of them lend themselves so readily to the destruction of life and property, that one
                    fears, at times, that civilization may not survive man's own ingenuity.
            Our Indiana of fifty years ago was no paradise, but it was possible to live happily and wholesomely.
                    Our educational system had reached a high level. It was necessary to struggle in order to succeed,
                    but one could fight the battles of life with a good deal of hope. The world was not in such a hurry
                         as now, but there was a great deal of virtue in the lower
                    tempo of that day. We can never go back to the conditions of fifty years ago. No people have ever
                    recaptured a vanished golden age. In fact, no such age ever existed. Nevertheless, the people of
                    every new era can and should reach back into the past and regain good things that have been
                    discarded or lost, if possible, when more valuable than the things that have replaced them. It is
                    some of the finer, intangible features of life that I am thinking about. When these are sought
                    after, many past periods are rich mines that may be profitably worked.
         
         
         
            
               Contributors: Dr. Mildred C. Stoler is on the staff of the department of history of
                    the Wilson Teachers' College, 
                        Washington
                    , D. C. Dr. J. Harley Nichols is doing research and writing for the Historical Records
                    Survey at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He lives at Templeton, Indiana. Harry O. Garman of 
                        Indianapolis
                     is a Consulting Engineer. Aline Jean (Mrs. Walter E.) Treanor lives in 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana. Her mother, Mrs. Margaret Story Jean, who was associated with Mrs. Treanor in
                    the preparation of the articles dealing with the early years of the White Oak Springs community,
                    lived at Petersburg, Indiana, where she died in 1937.
         
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid.
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more copies of the following
                    numbers, especially those marked with asterisks:
            
               
                  * Volume I, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1905).
               Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
               
                  * Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907).
               Volume VII, 4 (Dec., 1911).
               
                  * Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1912).
               
                  * Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
               
                  * Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
               
                  * Volume XVII, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1921).
               
                  * Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
            
            A picture of John T. McKinney, a member of the Supreme Court of Indiana from 1831 to his death in
                    1837, is desired. Anyone who can supply a picture, or furnish information relative to one, will
                    kindly write to the Indiana University Librarian.
            In 1930, The Indiana Magazine of History published a General Index for the first
                    twenty-five volumes (1905-1929). The Index was compiled by Dorothy Riker of the Indiana Historical
                    Bureau. Every library and every individual possessing a file of the Magazine for a
                    period covered by the General Index, or for any considerable portion of the
                    period, should have a copy. It is still possible to obtain copies at $1.00 each. Send
                    orders to the Indiana Magazine of History,
                    
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the articles of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
         
         
            The Kennerly Family
            Katherine Cushman Hoke
            Samuel and Ellen (or Ellin) Kennerly settled in 
                        Orange County
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , in 1735, and later in Culpeper County, in what is now Rappahanock County, 
                        Virginia
                    . Samuel Kennerly's will is dated October 22, 1749, and that of Ellen, his
                    wife, is dated October 28, 1753, both done in Culpeper County.1
            
            Their son, James Kennerly, married Elizabeth James, daughter of John James. They moved from Culpeper
                    County after 1762, to Augusta County, 
                        Virginia
                    , near Waynesboro, on the south fork of the Shenandoah River. A certified copy of the
                    will of James Kennerly, dated June 23, 1797, may be found in the County Clerk's office,
                    Augusta County, in the file case marked "Old Unrecorded Deeds."
            
               James Kennerly, son of James and Elizabeth (James) Kennerly, was born on August 3,
                    1734, and died in 1827. He married Susannah Long, who was born on December 9, 1747. He seems to have
                    preceded his father to Augusta County, 
                        Virginia
                    . He was in Captain Robertson's Company of 
                        Virginia
                     Militia in 1777 and 1778, as shown by entries (pages 71, 81, 82, 100, 101, 102, 142,
                    and 222) in the military record book of the proceedings of the court martial of that district, in
                    the City Clerk's Office at Staunton, 
                        Virginia
                    .
            
               Children of James and Susannah (Long) Kennerly: 2
            
            
               
                  Philip—b. Oct. 18, 1769; m. June 19, 1794, to Jane Carthy. They
                        moved to Logan County, 
                            Kentucky
                        , in 1807, where Philip died on Oct. 5, 1821. His wife died in 1837. They had six
                        children.
               
                  John—b. Oct. 18, 1771; m. Aug. 13, 1796, to Catherine Harpine,
                        daughter of his father's second wife. They moved to Logan County, 
                            Kentucky
                        , where he died before 1829. The widow and children probably moved to 
                            Sullivan County
                        , Indiana. Their daughter, Catherine Kennerly, married David Cushman on January 8,
                        1837, in 
                            Sullivan County
                        , Indiana.3
                        
                     
                        1 This account is taken from the unpublished story, "The
                                Cushmans of 
                                    Sullivan County
                                . Indiana, and Related Families, Kennerly, Sherman, Rundle,"
                                compiled by Katherine Cushman Hoke. A typewritten copy of the manuscript is on file in
                                the Indiana State Library,
                     
                        2 These are the grandchildren of James and Elizabeth (James)
                                Kennerly and the great-grandchildren of Samuel and Ellen Kennerly. The birth dates are
                                from the family Bible now in possession of a descendant in 
                                    Philadelphia
                                . In the author's copy of this article, the maiden name of the wife
                                of the third son (James) of James and Sussannah (Long) Kenneriy to given as Lucy Kennerly.
                     
                     
                        3 Catherine Kenneriy was the grandmother of Katherine Cushman
                                Hoke, author of this article.
                  
               
               
               
                  James-b. March 23, 1774; m. (1) April 3, 1806, to Lucy —. The
                        ceremony was performed by his brother, the Reverend Philip Kennerly. They had one daughter who
                        died young. James married second a Mrs. Rebecca Bowen (nee Withers) near 
                     Charleston, South
                        Carolina
                  . They moved to Tuscumbia, 
                            Alabama
                        . Four children were born to them.
               
                  Joseph—b. Dec. 23, 1775; m. Mary Christian. They lived near
                        Lynchburg, 
                            Virginia
                        , and later moved to Patrick County, 
                            Virginia
                        . They had no children.
               
                  Mary—b. Feb. 10, 1780; m. March 3, 1801, to John Ewell, of
                        Albemarle County, 
                            Virginia
                        . They moved to 
                            Tennessee
                         in 1847.
               
                  Catherine—b. Aug. 2, 1782; m. May 19, 1803, to Mathew Robertson.
                        They moved first to 
                            Kentucky
                        , then to 
                            Washington
                         County, Indiana. They had nine children.
            
            
               James Kennerly, son of James and Elizabeth (James) Bennerly married (2) Mrs. Mary
                    Harpine (nee Bear), widow of Thomas Harpine. Mary Bear was born on Jan. 11, 1760.
            
               Children of James and Mary (Bear-Harpine) Kennerly: 4
            
            
               
                  Thomas—b. Jan. 22, 1790; a Methodist minister; m. Ann Carnagie,
                        whose mother inherited Greenway Court, seat of Lord Fairfax, in 
                            Virginia
                        ; three children.
               
                  Susan—b. Jan. 1, 1792; m. (1) Jan. 17, 1809, to James Clemmons.
                        Genevieve Yost, of 
                     Topeka, Kansas
                  , is a descend-ant of Susan Kennerly by her
                        marriage to James Clemmons (Clemens). Susan Kennerly's second husband was a man by the
                        name of Weaver whose full name is not known.
               
                  Samuel—b. Jan. 31, 1794; a Methodist minister; m. Mrs.-Lafferty,
                        of 
                     Leesburg, Virginia
                  ; lived on his father's old homestead; died there
                        in 1870; seven children.
               
                  Jacob—b. April 5, 1796; a Methodist minister; m. Amanda Cravens;
                        moved to 
                            Shelby
                         County, Indiana; three children.
               
                  Elizabeth—b. Aug. 20, 1798; never married; d. during the Civil
                        war.
               
                  Jane—b. Sept. 7, 1800; m. Sept. 28, 1820, to her cousin, Henry
                        Bear; 'moved to 
                            Missouri
                        .
               
                  Ann-b. Jan. 7, 1804; m. John Withers Bowen in 
                            South Carolina
                        ; moved to 
                            Alabama
                        , later to Logan County, Ken- 
                     
                        4 See Note 1, above.
                  
                         tucky, and still later to 
                            Arkansas
                        ; d. there in 1864; three children.
            
            
               Children of John and Catherine (Harpine) Kennerly: 5
            
            
               —, a daughter; m. Seth Cushman, son of Seth and Nancy (Rundle) Cushman (b. 1806, in 
                            New York
                        ). They had no children. Seth, Jr. m. (2) Mary Wolverton (b. 1826, in Indiana). They
                        had four children by this marriage.
               
                  Catherine—b. April 30, 1810, in Logan County, 
                            Kentucky
                        ; m. Jan. 8, 1837, to David Cushman, in 
                            Sullivan County
                        , Indiana. He was born Jan. 17, 1812, at Onondaga, 
                            New York
                        , came to Indiana about 1816, and died on March 10, 1876. Catherine died on Feb. 16,
                        1888, at Sullivan, Indiana, at the home of her daughter, Marie Buff. David Cushman and his wife
                        Catherine (Kennerly) are both buried in the Mann Cemetery, in Turman Township, 
                            Sullivan County
                        , Indiana. Catherine was a charter member of the Christian Church at Big Springs,
                        near their home. Children: Thomas (b. Nov. 19, 1837); Arbaces (b. Sept. 27, 1839); Caroline (b.
                        April 29, 1842); Maria (b. Dec. 31, 1847); Harriet (b. Aug. 8, 1844; d. March 3, 1845); John K.
                        (b. Feb. 8, 1847; d. Feb. 16, 1847); Nancy Ann (b. July 23, 1850; d. March 1, 1851); Mary
                        Catherine (b. Jan. 28, 1852; d. Nov. 6, 1871).
               
                  Harriet—d. 1873; aged 68 years; in. Parkeson Sherman (d. 1863;
                        aged 56 years). Both are buried at 
                            Mt. Pleasant
                         Cemetery, 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana. This record was found in the courthouse at 
                            Terre Haute
                        , in file box 41. Children: Mary Catherine (b. Aug. 1, 1836; d. 1923; m. John Newton
                        Drake); Albert Law (m. Jan. 5, 1876, to Mary Foxworthy); George Sherman (m. Emma Overholser).
               
                  Arbaces Cushman—second son of David and Catherine (Kennerly)
                        Cushman, was born on Sept. 27, 1839, near Graysville, 
                            Sullivan County
                        , Indiana, on the David Cushman farm. He enlisted in the Civil War on Sept. 27,
                        1861, as a private in Co. I, Second Regiment, Indiana Volunteer Cavalry. He was promoted to
                        sergeant, and received an honorable discharge at 
                            Indianapolis
                         on Oct. 4, 1864. He then entered Jefferson Medical College at 
                            Philadelphia
                         from which he was graduated in 1869. On March 23, 1871, he married Mary 
                     
                        5 These are the grandchildren of James and Mary (Bear-Rarpine)
                                Kennerly; the great-grandchildren of James and Elizabeth (James) Kennerly; and the
                                great-greatgrandchildren of Sarnvel and Ellen Kennerly. These children were not only the
                                grand-children of James and Mary Kennerly through their father, but the grandchildren of
                                Mary (Bear-Harpine) Kennerly through their mother, who was a daughter of Mary (Bear)
                                Rarpine by her first marriage.
                  
                         Gray (b. December 15, 1845; dau. Joseph and Nancy Sher-man
                        Gray; d. Nov. 29, 1915). Arbaces Cushman died on April 8, 1909. Both he and his wife are buried
                        in the Mann Cemetery, Turman Township, 
                            Sullivan County
                        , Indiana.
            
            
               Children of Arbaces and Mary (Gray) Cushman: 6
            
            
               
                  Katharine—b. Dec. 31, 1871, at Graysville, Indiana. She attended
                        Union Christian College and the Indiana State Normal School. On Apr. 14, 1896, at Jeffersontown, 
                            Kentucky
                        , she married Fred Hoke (b. Aug. 9, 1870). He was the son of Andrew Jackson and Mary
                        Frances (Snider) Hoke; three children.
               
                  Joseph—b. Aug. 23, 1873, d. Sept., 1874, at Graysville, Indiana.
               
                  Grace (twin sister of Joseph)-b. Aug. 23, 1873, d. Sept., 1876, at
                        Graysville.
               
                  Ethel—b Aug. 25, 1876, at Graysville; attended Union Christian
                        College, Merom, Indiana; m. on Nov. 17, 1899, in 
                            Sullivan County
                        , Walter Turman (a dentist, of Marshall and 
                     Harrisburg, Illinois
                  );
                        two children.
               
                  Guy Arbaces—b. June 14, 1882, at Graysville; d. March 17, 1934;
                        m. June 21, 1903, to Harriet Turman (dau. Return Jonathan and Anna Wible Turman); six
                    children.
            
            
               Children of Fred and Katherine (Cushman) Hoke: 7
            
            
               
                  Cushman J.—b. Jan. 25, 1897, at Graysville, Ind.; graduate of
                        DePauw University; attended 
                            Harvard
                         University; m. Margaret Shoptaugh, March 26, 1899 (dau. Frank and Margaret Hillis
                        Shoptaugh of 
                            Greencastle
                        , Ind.)
               
                  Frank—b. March 26, 1899, at Graysville; graduate of Swarthmore
                        College; m. Elizabeth Marmon (dau. Walter and Annie Hall Marmon), Oct. 18, 1924; one daughter.
               
                  Mary—b. Aug. 5, 1901, at Sullivan, Ind.; graduate of La Salle
                        Seminary, Auburndale, Mass.; in. Perry W. Lesh (s. of Charles and Ora Wilkins Lesh), Sept. 3,
                        1921, at 
                            Indianapolis
                        ; two children.
            
            
               Children of Walter and Ethel (Cushman) Turman: 8
            
            
               
                  Katherine—b. May 3, 1900, at Marshall, Ill.; m. James Lyman
                        Schill, Dec. 26, 1922; both graduates of 
                            Butler
                         University; three children. 
                     
                        6 These are the grandchildren of John and Catherine (Harpine)
                                Kennerly, the great-grandchildren of James and Mary (Bear) Harpine Kennerly, the
                                great-greatgrandchildren of James and Elizabeth (James) Kennerly; and the
                                great-great-greatgrandchildren of Samuel and Ellen Kennerly.
                     
                        7 These are grandchildren of Arbaces and Mary (Gray) Cushman.
                     
                        8 These are also grandchildren of Arbaces and Mary (Gray)
                            Cushman.
                  
               
               
               
                  Joseph Austin—b. April 15, 1906, at Marshall, Ill.; m. Frances
                        Paddock; three children.
            
            
               Children of Guy Arbaces9 and Harriet (Turman) Cushman:
            
               
                  Paula Mozell—b. Sept. 1, 1904, at Graysville; m. Lee Sills, Aug.
                        6, 1926.
               
                  Arbaces Edward—b. Mar. 6, 1908; m. Clarice Gibson of 
                            Danville
                        , Ind., Aug. 17, 1932; one son.
               
                  
                     
                                Virginia
                             Katherine—b. Feb. 23, 1910, in 
                            Texas
                        ; m. George Whitmore, July 23, 1928; three children.
               
                  Max Turman—b. Feb. 25, 1913; d. Aug. 12, 1914, at Graysville.
               
                  Maxine Lucile—b. Aug. 12, 1915, at Graysville.
               
                  John Pershing—b. Jan. 1, 1919.
            
            In the foregoing family history only the descendants of James Kennerly (m. Susannah Long) son of
                    James and Elizabeth (James) Kennerly have been given. The elder James Kennerly and his wife (dau. of
                    John James) had the following additional children: Reuben, William (served under George Matthews in
                    the Revolutionary War), Benjamin, Thomas, Samuel, Mary, Elizabeth (m.— Poindexter), Kitty
                    (m.— Craig).
            Mary (sister of James Kennerly, Jr.) was born in 1736 and lived until 1834. She married George
                    Strother (b. 1732; brother of Captain John Strother). Mary's second husband was Patrick
                        Lockhart.10 Of the three children of George and Mary (Kennerly) Strother,
                    John and George died without issue, but Mary Strother, the daughter, married Col. George 
                        Hancock
                    . A granddaughter of Colonel and Mrs. Hancock, Henrietta Preston, became the first wife
                    of Albert Sidney Johnston, and, after her death he married her cousin, Elizabeth Griffin, another
                    granddaughter of Colonel and Mrs. Hancock. A daughter of Colonel and Mary (Kennerly) Han-cock, Julia 
                        Hancock
                    , married William Clark, of the famed Lewis and Clark expedition and brother of George
                    Rogers Clark. General William Preston of Kentucky was a grand-son of Col. George and Margaret
                    (Strother) 
                        Hancock
                    .
            
               
                  9 Guy Arbaces Cushman was a brother of Ethel (Cushman) Turman and
                        Katherine (Cushman) Hoke. His children were, or are, grandchildren of Arbacee and Mary (Gray)
                        Cushman.
               
                  10 Mary (Kennerly) Lockhart is mentioned in her father's will as
                            Mary Lockhart.
               
               
                  11 Miss Annie Kennerly of Lewisburg, Ky., is the historian of the Kennerly
                        Family. She is the great-granddaughter of James Kennerly, son of the elder James Kennerly. who
                        was in turn the eon of Samuel Kennerly who came to 
                            Virginia
                         in 1735.
            
         
         
         
            The Steele Family
            HARRY H. MARTINDALE
            The first known ancestor in this family is John Steele, called the trader, of Hampshire, 
                        Virginia
                    . The name of his wife is not known. He died in 
                        Montgomery
                     County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , in 1810, and is buried in the old 
                        Springfield
                     Presbyterian Churchyard. His sons were John, Jacob, Samuel, Henry and Solomon.
            John Steele, the eldest son, was born on January 25, 1761. He served as a private in the
                    Revolutionary War in Captain Michael Stump's Company of Colonel Muhlenberg's 
                        Virginia
                     Regiment. He was engaged in the defense of the town of 
                        Richmond
                     from the British, and, while marching to that place, was in a skirmish at Silver Creek.
                    He enlisted in April or May, 1781. He later served three months under Lieutenant Blue, and was with
                    the 
                        Virginia
                     troops at the siege of Yorktown. John Steele's pension claim is S.17706, and
                    the last payment was made on April 1, 1836. Among his heirs were: William R. Steele, Lewis County, 
                        Missouri
                    ; Solomon Steele, 
                        Morgan County
                    , Indiana; Samuel B. Steele, Callaway County, 
                        Missouri
                    . These are thought to have been his sons. John Steele lived in Hampshire County, 
                        Virginia
                    , and moved later to 
                        Montgomery
                     (now 
                        Bath
                    ) County, 
                        Kentucky
                    . He was erroneously placed on the list of 
                        Johnson County
                    , Indiana, pensioners; he lived and died in 
                        Morgan County
                    , Indiana.
            Henry Steele, son of John, the trader, was born about 1771, and was first married to Mrs. Prudence
                    Scott, a widow with two daughters. She was the daughter of Anthony Badgley of Hampshire (or Hardy)
                    County, 
                        Virginia
                    . Henry Steele and his family joined in the migration of some one hundred families which
                    went under the leadership of the Reverend David Badgley, brother of his (Steele's) wife,
                    Prudence, to the vicinity of Belleville, 
                        Illinois
                    , in 1797. In three or four years, Henry Steele and family joined his brother John
                    Steele in 
                        Montgomery County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    . About 1831, the two families came to 
                        Morgan County
                    , Indiana. The children of Henry and Prudence Steele were: Jacob, Jesse, Beuniah,
                    Hardin, Larkin, Henry, Elizabeth, and Katharine (m. Asa Maxey in 1814 in 
                        Kentucky
                    ). The children of Henry Steele by his second wife were Albert, Prudence, and  John. Henry Steele died in 
                        Madison
                     Township, 
                        Morgan County
                    , Indiana, in 1844. Solomon Steele, son of John, the trader, lived and died in Fleming
                    County, 
                        Kentucky
                    . Jacob and Samuel, sons of John, the trader, stayed in 
                        Virginia
                    .
         
         
         
            The Hickman Family of 
                        Henry County
                    
            
            EUGENE STUDEBAKER WIERBACH
            The Reverend Joshua Hickman was born in Westmoreland County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , April 10, 1766, the youngest son of Ezekiel and Elizabeth (Trammel) Hickman. When
                    about thirteen years of age, he drove pack horses over the Allegheny Mountains
                    to assist his father in equipping a company of men for service in the American Revolution. His
                    father was later made lieutenant of his Company, which was a part of the Eighth 
                            Pennsylvania
                        
                under the command of Colonel Daniel Brodhead. On January 13, 1785, when Joshua
                    Hickman was nineteen years of age, he was married to Josinah 
                        Van
                     Meter, daughter of Jacob and Catherine (De Moss) 
                        Van
                     Meter (
                        Van
                     Metre), in Westmoreland County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . This Jacob 
                        Van
                     Meter was an early settler and landowner in this section of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and was descended from the 
                        Van
                     Meter family which planted the first white colony in the Valley of. 
                        Virginia
                    . Joshua and Josinah Hickman settled on lands along the Cheat River lying partly in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and partly in what was later to become West 
                        Virginia
                    . Here all of their children were born and many of them were married.1
            
            From his Bible, we learn the names of Joshua Hickman's twelve children:2
            
            
               Rebecca—b. April 8, 1787; d. May 29, 1866; m. Abel Williams (b. 1774, d. 1847).
               Lewis—b. June 9, 1789; d. in infancy.
               Catharine—b. June 17, 1791; d. Feb. 22, 1849; m. Robert Perfect.
               Jacob—b. Nov. 22, 1795; d. Feb. 27, 1869.
               Mary Ann—b. Jan. 7, 1796; d. Nov. 8, 1853.
               Elsy—b. May 16, 1798; d. Jan. 10, 1864; m. April 8, 1816, to James Dodd (b. Dec.
                        16, 1779; d. June 24, 1869) 3
               Ann—b. May 22, 1800; d. in infancy.
               Sarah—b. Nov. 22, 1801; d. March 15, 1877; m. Jesse Ice.
               Joshua—b. May 7, 1804; d. Jan. 12, 1885; m. Juilett (or Juliette) Moore (b. March
                        6, 1809). 
                     
                        1 See "Marriage Bonds Filed in Monongalia. 
                                    Virginia
                                 (Now West 
                                    Virginia
                                )," copied by Thomas Ray Dille, in Daughters of the
                                    American Revotutioa Magazine, LEII, If.
                     
                        2 This Bible belongs to Mrs. Rose Hickman Estabrook of Springport,
                                Indiana, and Mrs. Patricia Allen Gohring, Vice-Regent of Fort Industry Chapter, D. A.
                                R., in 
                           Toledo, Ohio
                        , both descendents of Joshua Hickman.
                     
                        3 See the Dodd family Bible record printed below.
                  
               
               
               Cynthia—b. June 9, 1806; d. June 10, 1853.
               Ezekiel—b. Jan. 9, 1810; d. March 2, 1870.
               William—b. Jan. 18, 1813; d. June 26, 1873; m. Clarissa Williams (b. 1817, d.
                        1881).
            
            About the year 1826, the family moved to Indiana, locating in the northern part of 
                        Henry County
                    .4 Here Joshua Hick-man served the community in the Regular Baptist
                    Church, at the same time farming a large tract of land. Most of his children settled in the East 
                        Lebanon
                     neighborhood, where they achieved - prominence in law, medicine, and the arts. Joshua
                    Hickman died on August 18, 1842, in 
                        Henry County
                    . Three days before his death he made a will in which he made mention of all his
                    children, leaving them land, money, stock, and farming equipment, and naming his youngest son,
                    William, his executor. His wife died on June 3, 1857, in 
                        Henry County
                    , and is buried beside her husband in East 
                        Lebanon
                     Cemetery.
            
               Births and deaths of the Hickman and Moore families: 5
            
            
               Joshua Hickman—b. April 10, 1766; d. Aug. 18, 1842.
               Josinah (
                            Van
                         Metre) Hickman—b. Jan. 22, 1768; d. June 3, 1857.
               Josiah Moore—b. Nov. 6, 1783; d. July 15, 1822.
               Melinda Thomas—b. Jan. 22, 1786 [m. Josiah Moore]; d. Oct. 27, 1831.
               Juliette Moored.6 March 6, 1809.
               Anna Moore—b. Feb. 2, 1811.
               Mary Moore—b. April 3, 1814.
               James Thomas Moore—b. July 29, 1816.
               Adeline Elizabeth Moore—b. Dec. 24, 1819.
               Lydia Emma Moore—b. Dec. 24, 1822.
               Joshua T. Hickman—b. May 7, 1804; m. Juliette Moore, April 17, 1827. 
                     
                        4 The dates of the deaths of James and Elsy differ in the two
                                records. Samuel Gordon Smyth, comp., A Genealogy of the Duke-Shepherd-
                                        Van
                                     Metre Family (
                                    Lancaster
                                . Pa., 1909). 899-400: see also sketch of James T. Hickman. grandson of
                                Joshua Hick-man, in Biographical Memoirs of 
                                        Henry County
                                    , Indiana (
                                    Logansport
                                . Ind., 1902), 648. 549. According to this sketch, the family moved to 
                                    Henry County
                                 in 1830.
                     
                        5 This record was copied from the Bible belonging to Miss Byrd
                                Hickman of Springport, Indiana. The copying was done by Eugene Studebaker Wierbach.
                                Names are re-arranged, as they were copied without reference to family or sequence in
                                the Bible record.
                     
                        6 Juliette Moore and the five persons whose names follow hers were
                                evidently the children of Joshua and Melinda (Thomas) Moore.
                  
               
               
               Josiah Moore Hickman 7 —b. Sept. 12, 1828.
               William Trammel Hickman—b. Sept. 1830.
               Josinah 
                            Van
                         Metre Hickman—b. April 9, 1835.
               James Thomas Hickman—b. June 28, 1837.
               Lewis Joshua Hickman—b. Oct. 26, 1839.
               Jacob 
                            Van
                         Metre Hickman—b. April 11, 1842.
               Charles Melette Hickman—b. July 19, 1845.
               James T. Moore-m. Cynthia Ann Melette, June 18, 1839.
            
            
               
                  7
                        Son of Joshua T. and Juliette (Moore) Hickman, and grandson of Josiah and
                        Josinah (
                            Van
                         Metre) Hickman. The six persons whose names follow that of Joshua Moore Hickman
                        were evidently also the children of Joshua and Juliette (Moore) Hickman.
            
         
         
         
            Queries and Answers
            QUERY 108: THOMAS FAMILY
            Asahel Walker Thomas was born on January 13, 1809, in 
                        Virginia
                    , son of John and Hannah Thomas. He died in 
                        Clinton County
                    , Indiana, on October 16, 1880. The name of the county in 
                        Virginia
                     from which he came, the maiden name of his mother, Hannah, and information on her
                    family, and the early history of the Thomas family are wanted. Addresses of descendants of this
                    family who might supply some of this information would be appreciated.—W. R. G.
            QUERY 109: LEE FAMILY
            Joseph Lee, born in 1787, married Mary Wiley; Robert Lee, born in 1793, married Martha Powell;
                    Elizabeth Lee, born in 1799, married Charles Neal. These three children of Joseph Lee were all born
                    in 
                        Kentucky
                    . They were the children of Nancy Lee who is thought to have been widowed in 1806. What
                    was Nancy's husband's name? There are many descend-ants in Indiana.—T.
                    V.
            QUERY 110: PORTER FAMILY
            Asa C. Porter was born in 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1804. He came to 
                        Orange
                     County, Indiana, where, in 1829, he married Lucinda Glover. She was the daughter of
                    Uriah and Priscilla (Gaddis) Glover. Asa Porter had two brothers, William and David, and a sister,
                    Rachel (Porter) Chase. Information to establish a D. A. R. lineage record and to complete a history
                    of the Porter family is desired.—E. K. B.
            QUERY 111: GUTHUDGE FAMILY
            Harrison P. Guthudge settled near 
                  Rensselaer, Jasper
                County, Indiana, about 1839. It is thought that he
                    was born in 
                        Fairfield
                    , Indiana, and married there Emily Williamson. He may have been the son of the Baptist
                    minister, John Guthudge, Jr., who was a son of John and Elizabeth (Turner) Guthudge. Any information
                    relative to Harrison P. Guthudge, his parents, brothers, and sisters will be gratefully
                    received.—V. G. McG.
            
            QUERY 112: FIELDS-RIFE FAMILY
            John Fields was born in 1785 and died in 1849. His wife, Sarah, was born in 1788. They had children:
                    Mary, 
                        Benton
                    , Cynthia, Edmon, and Libby. Libby was born in 1831, and married Silas Rife (1834-1883),
                    probably a son of Abraham Rife of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Their daughter, Mary Rife, married Reuben Hugh Marks, son of Jesse and Mary Ann
                    (Dobbins) Marks. Mary Ann Dobbins (1831-1881) was the daughter of Joshua (1797-1870) and Nancy
                    (Farmer) Dobbins, who moved to 
                  Bloomfield, Greene
                County, Indiana, where their daughter, Mary Ann
                    Dobbins, was born. Ancestory and Revolutionary service in these lines is wanted.—Mrs. F.
                    L. Bear, 1142 Sixth Street, 
                  Charleston, Illinois
               .
            Answer to Query 66 (September, 1938, p. 377. E. P. G.) The Official Roster of the
                        Soldiers of the American Revolution Buried in the State of 
                            Ohio
                        
                (1929), I, 216, gives a record of Moses Kitchell and family. He married Phoebe
                    Hedges, daughter of Elias Hedges, wagoner, and sister of Samuel Hedges. The wedding took place in 
                        New Jersey
                     before 1761. They had children: Lydia, (m. in 1780 in 
                        New Jersey
                    , John Hosbrook, a Revolutionary soldier); Rachel (m.— Flack); Percy; Luther;
                    Mary (m. in 1787 in 
                        Ohio
                    , Daniel Bates, a Revolutionary soldier); Jemima (m. in 1806, in 
                        Ohio
                    ,— Allen).
            In 1786, Moses Kitchell moved with his family to 
                        Kentucky
                     and then in 1787 to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . He is known to have attended the wedding of his daughter, Jemima, in 1806. There is no
                    further record of him save that he lived in 
                        Cincinnati
                     until his death and was probably buried in the old First Presbyterian Churchyard. The
                    marked graves were moved and a building has been erected on the site. For references to Moses
                    Kitchell and family see also the D. A. R. Lineage Book, LXVIII, 182, No. 77474;
                    William Stryker (comp.), Official Register of the Men of 
                            New Jersey
                         in the Revolutionary War (Trenton, N. J., 1872), pp. 656, 844. Records of Asa,
                    Daniel, and John Kitchell are also given in the 
                  
                            Ohio
                         Official Register.
            
            —M. T. M.
            Answer to Query 99 (March, 1940, p. 71, Charles W. Shaver): The record of my ancestor Frederick
                    Shaffer, which I have sent to Mr. Shaver, may prove of interest to readers of  this department of the Magazine, some of whom may be
                    able to add to the record. My Frederick Shaffer came from 
                        Virginia
                     to 
                        Ohio
                    , probably accompanied by others of the family. His wife was Mary Crumley (or Cromley).
                    His brother, Jacob, married into the Strickler family in Indiana, and I think the Henry Shaver
                    (Shaffer) in the Strickler Genealogy (compiled by Harry M. Strickler) is of our line. My grandfather
                    Shaffer, son of Frederick, married Sarah Fouts. She had a sister Mary Fouts who married Joseph
                    Hoover. I found the record of the ancestor of this Joseph Hoover after searching some time in the
                    Indiana Genealogy section of the Indiana Magazine of History. Other sisters of
                    Sarah (Fouts) Shaffer were Sophia, Barbara, Elizabeth Fouts. She had a brother Benjamin
                    Fouts.—Sarah I. Williams, Route I, 
                        Cambridge
                     City, Indiana.
            Answer to Query 91 (September 1939, p. 351, C.C.C.): Elijah Coffin is buried in the Hicksite 
                        Quaker
                     graveyard at Pennville, Jay County, Indiana. He was the son of Bethuel and Hannah
                    (Dicks) Coffin, and grandson of William and Priscilla (Paddock) Coffin. According to family records,
                    Bethuel was seventeen years old when the family came to 
                        North Carolina
                    . Children of Bethuel and Hannah (Dicks) Coffin were: Nathan, Elijah (m. Naomi Hiatt),
                    Zacharias, Paul, Rebecca, Hannah, Mary, Bethuel. Many descendants of the Coffin family live in
                    Pennville, Indiana—Mrs. Ida Helen McCarty, Pennville, Jay County, Indiana.
            Answer to Query 103 (June, 1940, pp. 166-67, E. H.): For an account of the Bruce family see
                    "Memoirs of the Bruce Family," by William Bruce, in the Indiana
                        Magazine of History (March, 1927), XXIII, 63-72. This article was written on August 6,
                    1851, when William Bruce was seventy-five years of age. His marriage to his first wife, Sally Polk,
                    took place on October 23, 1798. Sarah was a daughter of Captain Charles Polk of 
                        Shelby
                     County, Indiana. William and Sally (Polk) Bruce had fifteen children. In 1819 William
                    Bruce married (2) Hetty R. Holmes, daughter of William and Elizabeth Ann Holmes, by whom he had ten
                    children. Accounts of his children and their marriages are given in the Bruce Family article
                    mentioned.—Dorothy Riker, Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
         
            Bible Records THE BEARD FAMILY
            On the front page of this Bible1 is written:
            
                    Human Biography
                    Born, welcomed, caressed, cried, fed, grew, amused, reared, studied, examined, graduated, in
                        love, loved, engaged, quarreled, reconciled, suffered, deserted, sick, dead, mourned, buried and
                        forgotten.
                
            There also appears the statement: "This book belongs to Matthew Symons Junior, bought of
                    William Beard in the 11th month, 1813." And just below is written: "This book
                    belongs to John Beard, son of I. N. Beard and Great Grandson of John Beard the first owner who left
                    Londonderry, 
                        Ireland
                     for America A. D. 1770."2
            
            John Beard came from 
                        Ireland
                     with his wife Martha and two sons, Thomas and Paterick, in the year of 1770 and landed
                    the 18th day of the eighth month of the same year.
            
                    Children of John and Martha Beard:
                
            
               Thomas—b. Jan. 14, 1768; d. July 28, 1830.
               Paterick—b. Dec. 29, 1769; d. March 12, 1831.
               Jane—b. Feb. 22, 1772.
               Eseble and Martha—died young.
               Sarah—b. July 2, 1778.
               John—b. Aug. 2, 1780; d. Sept. 9, 1809.
               Isaac [N.]—b. Jan. 28, 1783; d. May 26, 1799 in 
                            Randolph
                         County, 
                            North Carolina
                        .
               Jesse—b. June 29, 1787; d. Dec. 19, 1856.
               William—b. April 7, 1792.
               Martha—wife of John [Beard]; d. June 19, 1816.
               John—son of John and Martha; d. Feb. 13, 1859.
               Mary—wife of John, son of John and Martha; d. Oct., 1860.
            
            
               Births and deaths of the children of Isaac N. and Matilda Beard:,
            
               Amanda J.—b. July 31, 1833; d. Sept. 21, 1837.
               Martha M.—b. April 7, 1834; d. Sept. 21, 1837.3
               
               Victoria A.—b. May 9, 1839.
               
                  
                            Benton
                         J.—b. July 4, 1841; d. Dec. 19, 1877.
               Mary C.—b. Aug. 29, 1843.
               John W.—b. Sept. 18, 1845; d. June 6, 1924; aged 77 yrs., 8 mos., 18 days. 
                     
                        1 The Bible was printed and published by Matthew Cary. 122 Market
                                Street, 
                                    Philadelphia
                                , April 23, 1806. The record was copied by Mrs. Ira E. Tranter, 
                                    Franklin
                                , Ind.
                     
                        2 The following questions are found written in this Bible:
                                "Where John Beard and his wife Martha first landed in this country before going
                                to 
                                    North Carolina
                                ? Where Martha Beard, his wife, waa buried? The location of the cabin of
                                Thomas Beard in 
                                    Washington
                                 Township."
                     
                        3 Martha and Amanda died the same day of influenza and were buried
                                in the same coffin.
                  
               
               
               Levi W.—b. Nov. 19, 1848
               Sisy—b. Nov. 22, 1850; d. Sept. 23, 1852.
               Malinda—b. Dec. 1, 1852.
               Ida' May—b. Dec. 25, 1854.
               Matilda—wife of Isaac N. Beard; d. of cancer, Feb. 11, 1871.
            
            THE JAMES DODD FAMILY4
            
            James Dodd—b. December 16, 1779; d. June 24, 1861; m. April 8, 1816, Alce (Elcy, Elsy)
                        Dodd5; d. May 16, 1798; d. January 10, 1864.
            
                    Children of James and Alce Dodd:
                
            
               Mahethalem—b. March 2, 1817.
               Josinah—b. Aug. 27, 1818.
               Joseph—b. Oct. 7, 1820.
               Carson—b. Oct. 19, 1822.
               Mary Ann—b. Feb. 14, 1825.
               Joshua—b. June 13, 1827.
               John Allen—b Sept. 26, 1829.
               Sarah Allen—b. June 13, 1832.
               William—b. Jan. 20, 1835.
               Marshall—b. June 30, 1837.
               Rebecca Hickman—b. Oct. 20, 1839.
            
            THE GAGE FAMILY
            
               Thomas Gage (grandfather of James Gage).6
               
               Phillip Gage (father of James Gage).
               Joseph Shotwell (maternal grandfather of Easter Gage).
               Jacob Shotwell (father of Easter Gage).
               James Gage—b. Dec. 15, 1769.
               Easter Gage—b. May 10, 1765.
            
            
                    Children of James and Easter Gage:
                
            
               John Craig Gage—b. May 10, 1792.
               Gennet Gage—b. Aug. 3, 1800.
               Abel Gage—b. March 16, 1802.
               Simon Gage—b. July 22, 1805.
               Abel Gage—b. March 13, 1807.
            
            
               
                  4 This record was contributed by Eugene Studebaker Wierbach of 
                            Muncie
                        . Ind. Mr. Wierbach would like to know the parentage of James Dodd and the places
                        where his children settled.
               
                  5 The marriage took place in Monongalia County. West 
                            Virginia
                        .
               
                  6 The Bible containing this record is in the possession of Miss Byrd
                        Hickman of Springport. Indiana. The record was copied in August. 1939. At this time, no
                        connection between the Gage family and the Hickman and Moore families of 
                            Henry County
                        , Indiana, had been found. It is surmised that the Bible belonged to another family
                        previous to the Hickman-Moore ownership. The fact that the Gage family record is found in the
                        same Bible with the Hickman and Moore families is somewhat confusing.
            
         
         
         
            ABSTRACTS OF EARLY WILLS AND EXECUTORS' RECORDS1
            
            DOROTHY RIKER
            
               
                  Whalan, James. Will dated July 24, 1825; probated September 6, 1825. Heirs:
                        wife, Elizabeth Whalan; sons, William, Edward, Jacob. Executor: Ephraim Arnold. Witnesses: Elias
                        M. and William Neeld (
                            Clark County
                         Will Record B, 1817-33, pp. 326-27).
               
                  Prather, Aaron. Administrator, widow Elizabeth Prather, appointed December
                        27, 1825. Bond, $3,800. Securities: Peter Bottorff, Cornelius Ruddell (ibid., 328).
               
                  Booen, William. Administrator, widow Catherine Booen, appointed February 16,
                        1826. Bond, $200. Security, John M. Lemon (ibid., 328).
               
                  Lutes, Caspar. Will dated September 6, 1818; probated February 25, 1826.
                        Heirs: wife, Catherine Lutes. If she died without heir, property to go to Alexander Joseph
                        Lutes, son of brother, Harry Lutes. Executors: wife and brother Harry. Witnesses: John Gibson,
                        David Lutes, George Long (ibid., 329-30).
               
                  Tyler (?), Joseph, a man of color. Administrator, Moses Tyler, appointed
                        March 6, 1826. Bond, $100. Securities: John Fleehart and Alexander [illeg.] (ibid., 331).
               
                  Downs, James. Died about April 14, 1826. Administrators, Ann Downs and Louis
                        Bottorff, appointed May 13, 1826. Bond, $2,000. Securities: Abednego Richardson,
                        Aquilla W. Rogers (ibid., 331).
               
                  Thomas, Jonathan. Administrator, widow Martha Thomas, appointed May 25,
                        1826. Security, John Work (ibid., 332).
               
                  Shafer, Catharine (?). Administrator, Lewis Shafer, appointed July 11, 1826.
                        Bond, $400. Security, John Lantz (ibid., 332).
               
                  Harvey, John. Died about December 5, 1825. Administrator, Edwin Rector,
                        appointed July 13, 1826. Bond, $1,200. Securities: John H. Thompson, 
                            Orlando
                         Raymond (ibid., 333).
               
                  Jacobs, Jeremiah. Will dated September 9, 1813; probated May 17, 1826.
                        Heirs: sons, John, Ely, Solomon; daughters, names not given. Owned land in the 
                            Illinois
                         Grant. Executor: son, Solomon. Witnesses: David Spangler, Jesse Rowland. Proved by
                        Rowland, Spangler having died since making of the will (ibid., 333-35).
               
                  Steel, Robert. Will dated October 4, 1825; probated June 13, 1826. Heirs:
                        wife, Elizabeth Steel; sons, Robert, James, John; daughter and son-in-law, Ruth and Ashable Todd
                        (or Tidd?). Executors: wife and Stephen Hutchings. Witnesses: Stephen Hutchings, Esrom
                        Hutchings, William Pangburn (ibid., 335-36).
               
                  Stewart, William. Administrator, Samuel Stewart, appointed August 19, 1826.
                        Bond, $400. Security, William Izard (ibid., 337).
               
                  Peck, Rufus. Administrators, widow Naomi Peck and Samuel Hattel (?),
                        appointed August 21, 1826. Bond, $1,000. Security, Henry Dow, Sr. (ibid., 337). 
                     
                        1 Continued from the June, 1940, issue of the Indiana
                                    Magazine of History. Compiled from microfilm copies of elark County. Indiana,
                                Will Record B, 1817-1833. made for the Historical Records Survey, Works Progress
                                Administration, in 1936, and deposited in the Archives Division of the Indiana State
                                Library.
                  
               
               
               
                  Ridge, Samuel. Administrator, Amos Ridge, appointed August 22, 1826. Bond,
                        $575. Security, James Smith (ibid., 338).
               
                  Goodwin, William. Will tlated July 29, 1826; probated August 22, 1826.
                        Heirs: sons, Amos, John, Willis W; daughter, Elizabeth Stacy; grandchildren, William and Mary,
                        children of deceased son, George. Executors: sons Willis W. and Amos Goodwin. Witnesses:
                        Abednego. Richardson, Alexander Griffith (ibid., 339-41).
               
                  Gillems (?), Jonathan. Administrator, William Heath, appointed September 28,
                        1826. Bond, $100. Security: Martin Huckleberry, Colbert R. Johnson (ibid., 341).
               
                  Cameron, Robert. Administrator, Samuel Patterson, appointed September 28,
                        1826. Bond, $300. Security, John Boyer (ibid., 341).
               
                  Lemon, James. Administrator, widow Mary Lemon, appointed October 2, 1826.
                        Bond, $150. Security, John M. Lemon (ibid., 342).
               
                  Hostetler (or Hostetter ?), Adam. Administrators, Daniel Bower and David
                        Hostetler, appointed October 6, 1826. Bond, $3,600. Security, Adam Bower (ibid., 342).
               
                  Grissemore, John. Will dated September 25, 1826; probated October 13, 1826.
                        Heirs: wife, Elizabeth Grissemore; children, George, Henry, Margaret Homes, Catharine Howard,
                        Sarah Hazard, Elizabeth Hedrick, Mary Duncan. Executors: George Grissemore, Leven Howard, John
                        Hazard. Witnesses: Daniel McGready, John Grissemore (ibid., 342-44).
               
                  Gibson, John. Administrator, John Gibson, appointed November 25, 1826. Bond,
                        $300. Security, Andrew P. Hay (ibid., 344).
               
                  Durell, Stephen. Will dated August 18, 1826; probated January 27, 1827.
                        Heirs: wife, Lucy Durell; children, John, Stephen, Zebulon (of 
                            New York
                         state), Elizabeth, Oliva, Lucy Griswold; grandson George, cripple son of Stephen;
                        names of other sons and daughters not given. No executor named. Witnesses: John Sutherland, John
                        Watson. Lucy Durell, widow, appointed administrator. Bona, $250. Securities: Laman
                        Griswold, William Irwin (ibid., 346-47).
               
                  Coombes (Coombs?), Jesse. Died January 22, 1827. Administrator, widow Lydia
                        Coombes, appointed February 6, 1827. Bond, $500. Security, John McCoy (ibid., 349).
               
                  Reese, John. Will dated October 29, 1826; probated February 13, 1827. Heirs:
                        children, Benjamin, John, Catherine Tilford, Sarah Davis. Executors: son Benjamin and Thomas
                        Davis. Witnesses: Alexander Walker, James Britton, Robert Tilford (ibid.,
                        349-50).
               
                  Conaway, Johnson. Administrator, widow Elizabeth Judy (?) Conaway, appointed
                        April 7, 1827. Bond, $1,000. Securities: Elias Johnson and Charles Bullock (ibid., 351).
               
                  Linton, James. Will dated April 28, 1827; probated May 24, 1827. Heirs:
                        wife, Adaline Linton, and children (names not. given). Executor: Adaline Linton. Witnesses: John
                        Douthitt, James Scott, James McClung. Bond, $6,000. Securities: William Crawford,
                        John Austin (ibid., 352-53).
               
                  Perry, Andrew. Administrator, Matthew Perry, appointed June 7, 1827. Bond,
                        $600. Security, Zebulon Collins (ibid., 353-54).
               
                  Jolley, Philip, of 
                            New Washington
                        . Will dated June 20, 1824 (1826?); probated July 31, 1827. Heirs: brother, Malachi
                        Jolley, Sr.,  of 
                            Ohio
                        , and sister, Eunice (?), of 
                            Ohio
                        ; Philip Jolley Roe, son of George Roe of 
                            New Washington
                        . Witnesses: Samuel L. Adams, Benjamin Depew (?) (ibid., 354-55).
               
                  Blizard, William. Will dated July 15, 1827; probated August 21, 1827. Heirs:
                        sons, John, James, Nathan, Ezekiel; daughters, Elizabeth Young, Jane Jacobs, Ruth Jacobs, Esther
                        Dowden; grandchildren, Hannah Elizabeth, Eliza Jane, and Sarah Elene Blizard. Executors: sons,
                        James and Nathan. Witnesses: Charles Beggs, John Grismore, Daniel Grismore (ibid., 355-56).
               
                  Robison (or Robertson)., James. Administrator, John Robison, appointed
                        September 29, 1827. Bond, $400. Security, Andrew Ever-man (ibid.,
                        356).
               
                  Martin, Aaron. Died about October 23, 1827. Administrators, widow Hannah
                        Martin and son Aaron Martin, appointed November 12, 1827. Bond, $3,000. Securities:
                        Andrew 
                            Mitchell
                        , John Deuner (?) (ibid., 356).
               
                  Miller, John. Will dated August 15, 1827; probated November 10, 1827. Heirs:
                        wife, Anna Miller; children (not named except eldest son, Carnes). Witnesses: John Abbott, Henry
                        Reindking (or Ranaking?). Executor: wife, Anna Miller. William Brindle appointed administrator,
                        November -, 1827, Mrs. Miller having died. Bond, $1500. Securities: Samuel Prather,
                        Robert McGee (ibid., 356-57).
               
                  Ashton, Abraham. Administrators, widow Hannah Ashton and Joseph Ashton,
                        appointed November 20, 1827. Bond, $2000. Security, John Prather (ibid., 358).
               
                  Williams, Reese. Died about November 18, 1827. Administrators, widow Levina
                        Williams and John Williams, appointed December 4, 1827. Bond, $600. Securities: John
                        Conner and John Horner (ibid., 360).
               
                  Roe, George. Died about October 25, 1827. Administrator, William Roe,
                        appointed December 10, 1827. Bond, $500. Security Christopher Cole (ibid., 360).
               
                  Ross, Nathan. Died about August 25, 1826. Administrator, John Ross,
                        appointed February 7, 1828. Bond, $200. Security, John Lutz (ibid.,
                        361).
               
                  Scott, Robert. Died about February 7, 1828. Administrator, Abner Martin,
                        appointed February 29, 1828. Bond, $600. Security, John M. Lemon (ibid., 361-62).
               
                  Hay, John D. Died about September 17, 1825. Administrator, James W. Hay,
                        appointed March 31, 1828. Bond, $110. Security, James King (ibid.,
                        362).
               
                  Sutten, James. Died November, 1827. Administrator, Samuel Starkweather,
                        appointed May 20, 1828. Bond, $300. Security, John Austin (?) (ibid., 364).
               
                  Hostetler, Shem. Died about May 12, 1828. Administrator, widow Barbara
                        Hostetler, appointed August 19, 1828. Bond, $750. Security, Daniel Bower (ibid., 364-65).
               
                  Wright, William. Died August 4, 1828. Administrators, widow Amy Wright and
                        William Smith, appointed August 21, 1828. Bond, $400. Securities: Athenatious Wather
                        and William Smith (ibid., 365).
               
               
                  Turner, Richard. Died about September 6, 1828. Administrator, Francis
                        Turner, appointed September 22, 1828. Bond, $400. Securities: Jacob Bottorff, Daniel
                        Bower (ibid., 365).
               
                  Work, Martha. Administrator, John Work, Sr., appointed September 27, 1828.
                        Bond, $5000. Securities: John Coombs, William Bullock (ibid., 366).
               
                  Whitesides, Samuel. Died about October 5, 1828. Administrator, William
                        Lockhart, appointed October 27, 1828. Bond, $300. Security, John Garner (ibid., 366-67).
               
                  Collins, James. Administrator, Jonathan Watkins, appointed November 11,
                        1828. Bond, $150. Security, Henry Stacy. Collins was a member of James
                        Bigger's Company of Rangers in 1812 (ibid., 367).
               
                  Guernsey, Guy. Administrators, Polly, Jacob, Jane, and Seymour Guernsey,
                        October 14, 1828. Bond, $800. Security, Martin Huckleberry (ibid.,
                        368).
               
                  Garner, John. Will dated November 11, 1828; probated December 1, 1828.
                        Heirs: wife, Jane Garner, and children, names not given. Executor: Jane Garner. Witnesses:
                        William Duerson, Jr., Asa Glover (ibid., 368-69).
               
                  Long, Solomon. Died about December 12, 1828. Administrators, Sarah Long and
                        Aaron Martin, appointed January 2, 1829. Bond, $600. Securities: Elias Johnson,
                        Elisha Long (ibid., 370).
               
                  McDonald, Daniel. Will dated December 15, 1828; probated January 21, 1829.
                        Heirs: wife, Elizabeth McDonald; daughter, Rhode; sons, James, Thomas, John; nephews, Madisson
                        (?) McDonald (son of brother, John McDonald), Isaac McDonald (son of brother, James Mc-Donald).
                        Executors: Samuel Work, Isaac Worrall, James Brenton. Witnesses: John McDonald, Robert Brinton,
                        William Brinton (ibid., 370-72).
               
                  Robnett, Andrew. Died January 1829. Administrator, George All hands,
                        appointed February 6, 1829. Bond, $1800. Securities: George Bottorff, William L.
                        Pittman (ibid., 373).
               
                  
                     
                                Montgomery
                            , Stephen. Administrator, Alexander Mars, appointed February 9, 1829. Bond,
                        $900. Security, John Douthitt (ibid., 373).
               
                  Hartly, Absalom. Administrator, William Hartly and William Heath, appointed
                        February 21, 1829. Bond, $250. Security, Colbert R. Johnson (ibid.,
                        374).
            
         
      
   
