
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 89, Issue 4, pages 289-383. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:89+issue:4+year:1993&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Indiana's Public School Traditions: Dominant Themes and Research Opportunities
            
                    William J. Reese⋆
                
            For most citizens Indiana's public schools are a source of some pride as well as
                    disappointment. Alumni recall the winning shot or blocked punt, a beloved teacher or the local
                    Ichabod Crane, the seemingly endless stream of courses that stretched the mind or dampened the
                    spirit. Because America's public schools are largely locally controlled and open to
                    everyone, citizens often draw upon their personal experiences and whatever is newsworthy as they
                    praise or condemn them. Seldom providing sustained examination of anything, newspapers provide
                    information in bits and pieces, with familiar headlines: Cougar Coach Quits; High School Violence
                    Increasing, Committee Reports; National Merit Scholars Named; ISTEP Scores Dip; Teachers Warn of
                    Test Abuses. The negative always outnumbers the positive. In the end, nearly everyone believes that
                    schools should be doing better, and few think that today's schools are as good as those of
                    past years.
            Despite the universal belief that Indiana's public schools need improvement, very little is
                    known about how they evolved into their present form. Compared with those of the nineteenth century,
                    our schools are relatively large-scale, bureaucratically controlled, professionally dominated
                    institutions that offer students, from little children to young adults, an array of academic and
                    vocational subjects and social services from subsidized meals to drug counseling and career
                    planning. The founders of Indiana's school system would not recognize a present-day school.
                    Given the contemporary concern about the fate of our schools and natural curiosity about how things
                    came to be, it is therefore surprising 
                  ⋆ William J. Reese is editor of the History of Education
                            Quarterly and professor of education and adjunct professor of history and of American
                            studies at Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            . He would like to thank Ronald D. Cohen, John M. Glen, B. Edward McClellan, and
                            the members of the History of Education Colloquium in 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, for their constructive criticism of an earlier draft of this
                        essay.
               
                     that scholars have not recently written any comprehensive
                    analysis of the history of Indiana's public schools.
            Early in this century, John Dewey remarked that school reform had become America's
                    fundamental approach to social improvement. This essay focuses on public schools: the deliberate,
                    formal, systematic ways in which the state has attempted to transmit values, skills, and learning to
                    the young. Other scholars of educational history study families, churches, neighborhoods, the mass
                    media, and other informal and formal sources of learning. Everything in a sense may educate, but
                    this essay is about public schools, not all of the sources of learning and socialization that exist
                    at any point in time. The essay is also limited to examining schooling below the collegiate and
                    university levels.1
            
            What follows is a modest attempt both to examine some of the best available research on the history
                    of Indiana's public schools and to suggest further opportunities for study. First, it
                    surveys the few major attempts at writing histories of public schooling in Indiana, highlighting
                    their ideological and professional biases. Then the essay examines several broad eras of Indiana
                    history: the movement for common, tax-supported schools in the nineteenth 
                  
                     1 Robert B. Westbrook, John Dewey and American
                            Democracy (
                                Ithaca
                            , N.Y., 1991).
               
                    
                  WASHINGTON COUNTY. SPELLING BEE WINNERS, 1915. LEFT
                            TO
                            RIGHT: GILBERT MATTHEWS (COUNTY
                            CHAMPION), EDNA MARTIN, RALPH TURNER, MABEL WRIGHT, HERMAN GRAY Reproduced from First Education Report (
                                Washington County
                            , Indiana, 1915).
               
                    
                    
                  THE PEKIN JUVENILE BAND, 1915 Reproduced from First Education Report (
                                Washington County
                            , Indiana, 1915).
               
                     century; the recurring waves of educational reform sweeping the
                    state and nation between the 1890s and World War II; and the changing place of schools in local
                    communities after that war, which led to ever more intense efforts to reform school and society. The
                    essay concludes with some final thoughts about whether advocates of contemporary educational reform
                    might benefit by understanding an Indiana history that shows that most of their ideas have been
                    tried before, with often disappointing or mixed results.
            Across the course of Indiana's history citizens have tended to expect far more from schools
                    than could reasonably be delivered. This hardly makes Hoosiers unique, for the belief that schools
                    are a panacea for many social ills is almost as old as the nation itself. Americans have held this
                    belief despite the widespread assumption in each generation that families ate in a state of decline,
                    public morals worse than before, and the schools in a downward spiral.
            A familiarity with educational history might provide some perspective on the familiar tale of doom
                    and gloom without denying the constant need for educational improvement. Knowing history is
                    nevertheless a sobering experience. There has never been a time when schools effectively educated or
                    socialized everyone—or even tried—or when everyone was well mannered, civil,
                    industrious, and well informed. Only in mythical Lake Wobegone are all youth above average.
                    Indiana's poor, whether white or black, have never enjoyed an educational Eden. Until
                    relatively recently, most teenagers dropped out of school, could not hope to graduate, and could
                    only dream of attending college. In addition, Hoosiers have never spent excessive amounts of money
                    on education and child care, and that legacy persists today. Some vocal citizens complain that much
                    money has been thrown at schools already, but this claim of excessive generosity is not validated by
                    comparative evidence on spending patterns in other northern states.
            Moreover, citizens have always expected schools to train the minds and morals of an often diverse
                    student body, no easy task for any generation and unlikely to produce cheerleaders for public
                    education when the test scores arrive and public morals seem to slide. Making a diverse population
                    that is stratified by region, social class, ethnicity, race, and gender fully literate and
                    responsible would be a worthy enough feat. But Americans have never been able to agree on a coherent
                    mission for our schools, and they certainly never thought mental discipline the only worthy goal.
            While taxpayers continually complain about what seventeen-year-olds do not know, they have
                    simultaneously expected schools in this century to provide nutritious meals for the poor, recreation
                    and sports for the community, counseling about jobs and school achievement, and warnings about drugs
                    and safe sex, or at least about drugs. Driver education may be among the most popular  courses in high school, but its location in the same building that
                    tries to teach physics says something about our expectations. When in doubt, organize a course or
                    start a program.
            Every social ill presumably has an educational cause, and schools have regularly been asked to pursue
                    somewhat contradictory goals: concern for the individual but emphasis on team spirit, concern with
                    one's emotional well-being and moral purpose but emphasis on grades and standardized
                    scores, concern about civic responsibility, democracy, and justice but seeming acceptance of racial
                    segregation, poverty, and the status quo. Despite a barrage of complaints about the ineffectiveness
                    of schools, each generation of citizens still seems to expect schools to solve problems unsolved by
                    families, churches, and other community-based organizations. Though we are perennially disappointed
                    with our schools, that frustration has not prevented us from asking them to do more, to complain
                    again when they fail, and to concoct another round of reforms. Can this be the enduring lesson of
                    educational history?
            I
            Although contemporary demands for public school reform are commonplace, scholars have not provided
                    concerned citizens with any clear sense of the evolution and enduring problems of Indiana's
                    system of public education. Several insightful books analyze certain aspects of Indiana's
                    educational traditions, such as the dramatic efforts at cooperative learning in antebellum 
                        New Harmony
                     or the world famous experiments with platoon schools in Gary in this century. And many
                    worthwhile books, articles, theses, and dissertations chronicle other developments in the
                    state's educational past. However, many of the extant biographies of the founders of
                    Indiana's schools, especially those of Caleb Mills, are mostly hagiography. Still other
                    studies of various educational subjects are similarly uncritical and antiquarian.2 Most of the one-volume histories of the state's public schools, so often cited in
                    more specialized studies, are badly outdated and suspect. The earliest historians of education in
                    Indiana, as in other states, were usually school men. Keenly aware of the low status of education in
                    many communities, they wrote celebratory histories of public schools. Guided by an
                    insider's view of things, James H. Smart (the state school superintendent) published The Indiana Schools and the Men Who Have Worked in Them in 1876. After discussing
                    the uphill battle of the noble educators and reformers who had built 
                  
                     2 James H. Madison, The Indiana Way: A State History (
                                Bloomington
                            : 1986), 338n. Important examples of leading scholarship include Ronald D.
                            Cohen, Children of the Mill: Schooling and Society in Gary,
                                1906–1960 (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1990); and Arthur E. Bestor, Backwoods Utopias: The Sectarian
                                Origins and the Owenite Phase of Communitarian Socialism in America,
                                1663–1829 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1950).
               
                     Indiana's schools, Smart included flattering sketches
                    of prominent men ("Our Eminent Educators," including himself)
                    even though they were largely administrators and the teaching force even then largely female.3
            
            Most professions traditionally have interpreted their history as the progressive growth of more
                    expertise and enhanced levels of achievement. Specialists replaced general practitioners in
                    medicine; those who read law gave way to those trained at professional schools.
                    Educators-turned-amateur historians even in the nineteenth century envied the standing of law and
                    medicine compared with the teaching profession. And their histories of public education attempted to
                    cast public schools as a heroic crusade against ignorance.
            The earliest historians of Indiana's public schools sought to instill pride in teachers and
                    to honor the founding fathers of the educational system. When Richard G. Boone published A History of Education in Indiana in 1892, he followed the path blazed by Smart. A
                    professor of pedagogy at Indiana University and later a city school superintendent, Boone typically
                    praised the nineteenth-century reformers who fought the good fight for tax-supported education.
                    Since Boone realized that many citizens abhorred taxes and regarded formal education as irrelevant,
                    he elevated the standing of men such as Caleb Mills, the New 
                        England
                     Presbyterian who promoted Indiana's common schools in the 1840s and later
                    became a state superintendent. According to 
                        Boone
                    , Mills "deserves to be held in grateful remembrance by Indiana teachers,
                    Indiana children, Indiana Legislatures, and all who have interest in Indiana schools or the public
                    morals incident to intelligence."4
            
            Fassett A. Cotton, a former state superintendent of public instruction, prepared another
                    insider's sketch of Indiana's schools. His was the last attempt to write a
                    one-volume history. Cotton explained that Education in Indiana drew heavily upon
                    assorted facts and anecdotes, including those he heard presented by Edward Eggleston, the famous
                    author of The Hoosier School-Master, in a speech to educators in southern Indiana
                    in 1897. Even the Great Depression did not dim Cotton's optimism or undermine the glory of
                    Hoosier schools. History, again, could ennoble and inspire, enabling everyone to see how the state
                    had progressed thanks to the public schools. "The student of education who knows something
                    of early schools in Indiana and of the spirit that made them possible, knows how to explain our
                    present splendid school spirit 
                  
                     3 James H. Smart, The Indiana Schools and the Men Who
                                Have Worked in Them (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1876). Daniel Hough wrote the biographical entry on Smart. A short section of
                            the book that examined the role of women teachers warned that they might overrun the system.
                  
                     4 Richard G. Boone, A History of Education in
                            Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1941), 93–94.
               
                    
                    
                  SEWING CLASS
                            AT KINGSBURY, LA PORTE COUNTY, 1913 Reproduced from Twenty-Sixth
                                Biennial Report of the State Superintendent of Public Instruction (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1913).
                and educational progress. They have come up out of the past, and were born of the faith
                    that in education lay our salvation."5
            
            Evangelical Protestants such as Caleb Mills would have been proud, since Cotton called him
                    "a great man, a great scholar, and a great teacher." Besides explaining how
                    reformers through the decades had bravely combatted ignorance, Cotton again showed how great men passed legislation, built schools, added more programs, increased pupil
                    enrollments, and led the state forward. Cotton also praised himself for his personal triumphs as
                    state superintendent from 1903 to 1909. "The reaction of school authorities to his
                    leadership became dynamic. The schools, even the smallest and more remote, felt the generating
                    stimulus." As the head of Indiana's educational system, he pressed for school
                    consolidation, a more uniform curriculum, more diverse educational programs, and more professional
                    authority for administrators and teachers, thereby building upon the labors of earlier generations.
                    Indeed, "it may be said, truthfully, that Superintendent Cotton's six years of
                    service were years of positive and dynamic influence in behalf of the upward trend of education in
                    the state." Modesty mattered little where the fate of the schools was concerned!6
            
            
               
                  5 Fassett A. Cotton, Education in Indiana (Bluffton,
                        Ind., 1934), 4–5, 7.
               
                  6
                        Ibid., 174,221–22.
            
            
            These self-aggrandizing histories stand as the major one-volume interpretations of Indiana's
                    public schools. Though parochial in viewpoint and largely uncritical, they nevertheless represented
                    mainstream historical scholarship of public schools in the late nineteenth and early twentieth
                    centuries. These were not aberrations. The histories of other state systems of education were
                    similarly framed, marking the triumph of public education as the victory of light over darkness.
            Professionally trained historians, too, often believed that public schools epitomized American
                    traditions of democracy and equality of opportunity. The acclaimed historian of the frontier,
                    Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner, argued in 1903 that the nation's public schools, especially those in
                    the Middle West, reflected democracy in action. "There is no more striking illustration of
                    the democracy of the West than is afforded by its educational system," Turner wrote.
                    "From the primary grades up to the graduate work, throughout this great area, the way is
                    clear for the boys and girls with brains to rise to the full measure of whatever intellectual power
                    is in them. Nowhere else has democracy so completely embodied its educational ideals."7
            
            Turner was hardly a public school insider, yet he shared the belief that public schools exuded
                    democratic values. And, while Cotton decades later composed his paean to Indiana's schools,
                    progressive historians such as Merle E. Curti and Charles A. Beard—admittedly in more
                    sophisticated fashion—prepared remarkable studies of the unique place of public schools
                    in America's democratic past. Curti wondered whether public schools could ever accomplish
                    goals that seemed contradictory: to guarantee the rich safety in the streets and the protection of
                    their property and simultaneously to assure the poor that the class system was permeable and
                    opportunities unlimited. Even Curti, however, ended his otherwise critical volume with high praise
                    for John Dewey, whose pragmatism included enthusiastic support of public schools in a democratic
                    society. Beard, too, cognizant of the fascist youth movements plaguing Europe, praised
                    America's schools for promoting a more democratic culture.8
            
            For the most part historians of American education generally held a widely shared belief: that public
                    schools were part of the solution to many of America's problems, not part of the problem
                    itself, and that they were a source of pride and not embarrassment. 
                  
                     7 Frederick 
                                Jackson
                             Turner, "The Democratic Education of the Middle West," World's Work, VI (August, 1903), 3754. Turner waxed enthusiastic:
                            "From the kindergarten to the graduate department, the sons of the banker and of
                            the breadwinner may sit side by side and are furnished with the same opportunities by the
                            State. The boy and the girl are educated in the same institutions."
                  
                     8 Merle E. Curti, The Social Ideas of American
                            Educators (
                                New York
                            , 1935); and Charles A. Beard, The Unique Function of Education in
                                American Democracy (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1937).
               
                     America did not have the fixed social classes so prominent in
                    Europe, thanks to an abundance of freedom and relatively open access to public schools. When that
                    consensus on values and institutions—never accepted by everyone—collapsed in
                    the 1960s, historians of public schools grew ever more critical and suspicious of the standard
                    histories lining library shelves. Scholars increasingly doubted whether schools—either at
                    the time of their origins or after waves of reform in later decades—necessarily reflected
                    democracy or egalitarian sentiments. Before the 1960s, however, most educational
                    historians—whether amateurs or professionals—still believed in the remedial
                    power of schools. Public schools held great potential for promoting individual welfare and the
                    common good.9
            
            This was the faith that informed the histories of Indiana's public schools by Smart, 
                        Boone
                    , and Cotton. This faith influenced most of the standard history of education textbooks
                    that future teachers read when they attended normal schools in the nineteenth century and state
                    teachers colleges or universities during most of the twentieth century. In fact, America's
                    most famous and widely read historian of education shared a familiar viewpoint and even hailed from
                    Indiana: Ellwood P. Cubberley. Born in Andrews and educated at the village school and at Purdue and
                    Indiana universities, Cubberley became a pioneer in the field of school administration early in the
                    twentieth century and wrote the leading textbooks on the history of education before the 1960s.
                    Cubberley described the rise and promise of public schools in ways that echoed familiar ideas about
                    the ties between education and democracy, institutional development, and social progress. He summed
                    up and extended the dominant view of amateurs and professional historians alike when, paraphrasing a
                    martyred president, he said that schools were of, by, and for the people.10
            
            Searching for Indiana's public school traditions requires an appreciation of these once
                    dominant traditions in American educational history. Most of the older histories celebrate their
                    subject, while new research frequently offers a more critical perspective. Already several important
                    new monographs and research studies have appeared on the history of Indiana's public
                    schools, and more new ground remains to be broken. For those who think that history 
                  
                     9 These controversies peaked with the antirevisionist volume by Diane
                            Ravitch, The Revisionists Revised: A Critique of the Radical Attack on the
                                Schools (
                                New York
                            , 1978).
                  
                     10 Jesse B. Sears and Adin D. Henderson, Cubberley of 
                                    Stanford
                                 and His Contribution to American Education (
                                Stanford
                            , 1957), 4–20; Ellwood P. Cubberley, Public Education in
                                the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1919); Lawrence A. Cremin, The Wonderful World of Ellwood
                                Patterson Cubberley (
                                New York
                            , 1965); and David Tyack and Elisabeth Hansot, Managers of Virtue:
                                Public School Leadership in America, 1820–1920 (
                                New York
                            , 1982), 122–28.
               
                     can provide some guidance in understanding schools today, all
                    this is welcome.
            As James H. Madison explains in The Indiana Way, some Hoos-iers in the late
                    twentieth century continue the struggle to improve public education, pushing for higher academic
                    standards and better financial support for local schools. History never provides definitive answers
                    to how to perfect modern education. However, understanding how the state's schools
                    originated in the mid-nineteenth century and then responded to the challenges of widespread social
                    change in later periods might provide citizen and scholar alike with a perspective usually absent
                    from contemporary debates about educational reform. What were the social and intellectual
                    foundations of Indiana's schools, and how have they responded over time to the challenge of
                    social change and educational innovation? Answering these questions will require transcending the
                    work of earlier generations of historians whose faith in schools and in the future was perhaps more
                    secure than our own.11
            
            II
            In the beginning was Caleb Mills, wrote his principal biographer, Charles W. Moores, in 1905. A
                    professor of ancient languages at Wabash College, Mills was the proverbial Yankee schoolmaster who
                    helped agitate for tax-supported education in the 1840s and pressed for school reforms later
                    sanctioned by the new Indiana Constitution of 1851. The state Constitution of 1816 had
                    enthusiastically endorsed public responsibility for schooling, but in part because of financial
                    restraints its provision had remained a local matter. Therefore, according to most standard
                    histories, little good was accomplished before the 1840s. Townships and even smaller districts
                    gained control of education during the 1820s and 1830s, with dire consequences. By the 1840s, the
                    story continues, Indiana had the highest illiteracy rates in the north, and
                    "Hoosier" already was a synonym for ignorance. "Indiana had an
                    opportunity to develop as good an educational system as Ohio or 
                        Michigan
                    ," wrote Howard H. Peckham in his bicentennial history, "but neglected
                    it." A commonly accepted view is that settlers from the upland South, who largely inhabited
                    the southern reaches of the state, retarded Indiana's educational development. Yankees such
                    as Mills, living in northern or central Indiana, led the charge for tax-supported, free public
                        schools.12
            
            
               
                  11
                        
                            Madison
                        , The Indiana Way, 250–52.
               
                  12 Charles W. Moores, Caleb Mills and the Indiana School
                            System (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1905); Howard H. Peckham, Indiana: A Bicentennial History (
                            New York
                        , 1978), 363; Gregory S. Rose, "Upland Southerners: The County Origins of
                        Southern Migrants to Indiana by 1850," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        LXXXII (September, 1986), 242–63; and Roger H. Van Bolt, "The Hoosier
                        Politicians of the 1840s," Indiana Magazine of History, XLVIII
                        (March, 1952), 25.
            
            
            
               BASKET WEAVING
                        IN RICHMOND, 1905 Reproduced from Twenty-Second Biennial Report of the State Superintendent of Public Instruction (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1905).
            
            
            Most historians (particularly school men) commonly criticized the educational arrangements that
                    existed in Indiana before the 1850s. Until the common school crusade of the 1840s, a combination of
                    self-education, private schools, county seminaries, and tax-supported (but not always free) public
                    schools educated the populace. Those who favored publicly controlled, tax-supported education guided
                    more by centralized authority than by local townships and districts naturally denigrated educational
                    traditions that existed before midcentury. For that reason fresh assessments of educational
                    development and change before the 1850s would be welcome. Much has been written about the low
                    literacy rates of early Indiana. Still, frontier and pioneer Indiana should be understood in its own
                    time and place; historians too often assumed the superiority of centralized power and Whig and
                    Republican views of political behavior in their assessments of earlier periods. Historians typically
                    view the champions of Yankee reform as principled and worthy and portray their opponents as
                    narrow-minded, penurious, and opposed to all that is right and good for children.13
            
            Surprisingly few historians have sought to evaluate education or schooling before the 1850s in its
                    own context. In some ways they have assumed that the inevitable trend was toward more centralized
                    authority, graded schools, hierarchical school administration, and so forth. It is as if the train
                    of history moved and only should have moved in one direction. Instead of trying to figure out why
                    local residents defended familiar educational arrangements—such as one room schools or a
                    basic curriculum—far too many writers have assumed the superiority of consolidation,
                    expertise, and centralized authority. In that sense writers have uncritically accepted the
                    assumptions of leading reformers, who had nothing but scorn for the values of rural Indiana or lay
                    people generally. Understanding schools in their own time and place, and not simply from the
                    perspective of urban professionals, markedly changes one's perception of the past.
            Historians would benefit from the advice offered by Donald F. Carmony. Writing in the Indiana Magazine of History in 1962, he concluded his history of 
                        Shelby County
                    's schools before the 1850s: "This decentralized district
                    system—with considerable authority given to the district trustees—has been
                    much criticized by school administrators and by historians, particularly during the twentieth 
                  
                     13 For an excellent introduction to the controversies, see Emma Lou
                            Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 1850–1880 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1965), 461–95. On educational institutions before the 1850s, see
                            Walter 
                                Jackson
                             Wakefield, "County Seminaries in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XI (June, 19151, 148–61; John Hardin
                            Thomas, "The Academies of Indiana," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, X (December, 1914), 331–58, XI (March, 1915), 8–39;
                            and Otho Lionel Newman, "Development or [sic] the Common Schools of Indiana to
                            1851," Indiana Magazine of History, XXII (September, 1926),
                            229–76.
               
                     century, but, despite its faults, it or something like it was
                    perhaps essential in the pioneer era." Trying to understand educational arrangements in
                    their own time and place remains challenging. 14
            
            Scholars studying the origins of Indiana's public schools often uncritically praise Caleb
                    Mills and the other Whig, Protestant reformers. These activists pressed for more state-level
                    intervention in education and advocated a host of familiar Yankee innovations: graded classrooms, a
                    more uniform and sequenced curriculum, the establishment of free elementary and secondary schools,
                    the hiring of women as the predominant teachers of younger children, and the creation of
                    hierarchical administrative systems controlled by men. Since their reforms often gained influence,
                    earlier decades seem like the dark ages of Indiana education. Mills is usually depicted as a heroic
                    figure, selflessly battling the miserly and rescuing citizens from their ignorance. Since few
                    political activists are selfless, scholars should study Indiana's founding fathers more
                    critically and reassesss whether altruism alone explains their behavior.15
            
            An early biographer described Mills and his fellow reformers as "gentle, kindly, generous,
                    earnest, builders of civilization in the wilderness," and the Wabash professor remains the
                    best known figure of early Indiana school reform. However, Mills has not received a full-length
                    critical biography, certainly nothing comparable to recent assessments of famous contemporaries such
                    as Horace Mann, Henry Barnard, or Catharine Beecher. And only recently have other influential
                    reformers, such as Calvin Fletcher of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , received more attention. New research on Fletcher has broadened our understanding of
                    antebellum reform, but exactly how networks of reformers pressed for local school improvements and
                    state legislative action remains largely unwritten. The state's new Constitution of 1851
                    promoted several educational innovations, including the creation of a state board of education and
                    the office of state school superintendent. The history of how reformers successfully mobilized
                    action throughout the state through speeches, newspapers, and other forms of political
                    lobbying—and whether, as elsewhere, elite women in voluntary associations similarly
                    pressed for change—remains something of a mystery. The pages of the Indiana
                        School Journal, the voice of leading administrators and reformers, may reveal how and why
                        
                  
                     14 George Billman, "Public Schools in Congressional Township
                            13, Range 7 East, 
                                Shelby County
                            , Indiana, 1829–1852," ed. Donald F. Carmony, Indiana Magazine of History, LVIII (December, 1962), 286.
                  
                     15 See, for example, Cotton, Education in Indiana;
                            and 
                                Boone
                            , A History of Education in Indiana, 94, 136–37. A
                            useful introduction to educational developments on all levels is provided in John D.
                            Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial
                                Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), II, chapter 17.
               
                     key figures tried to restructure schools and educational power
                    relations after midcentury.16
            
            Most histories of the origins of Indiana's schools highlight the prominence of Yankee
                    immigrants and Whig activists, who supported greater state intervention in education than did
                    southern immigrants and Democrats. Most of the innovations championed by Mills and Fletcher were
                    typical of antebellum school reform throughout the North. As Carl F. Kaestle notes in Pillars of the Republic, the best history of common school reform, most northern reformers
                    sought the elimination of private alternatives and lobbied for a system of public
                    education. Several scholars have documented how, except for a handful of elite schools or strictly
                    sectarian institutions, Indiana's private academies largely disappeared in the late
                    nineteenth century once public schools gained acceptance and became completely free.17
            
            Only diligent research will reveal the extent to which other reforms actually influenced local
                    communities. School leaders at midcentury wanted to eliminate township control over schools, to
                    enhance the power of the state superintendent, to grade classrooms and make teachers more
                    professional, to hire more women teachers to improve instruction and lower costs, and to standardize
                    the curriculum in every district and consolidate schools whenever possible. Northern reformers
                    pursued these goals everywhere, and Indiana—despite its earned reputation for moving
                    haltingly into the future—was no exception.
            An old proverb states that man proposes and God disposes. More appropriately here, reformers proposed
                    but Indianans disposed. Scholars of late nineteenth-century Indiana have long understood that
                    speeches and laws do not make a school. Frequently citizens moved more slowly than reformers wished.
                    Thus the social history of local schools remains a fruitful area for further study. Parts of this
                    history are found in many scattered sources. There is still a paucity of case studies of individual
                    school systems or of particular educational reform movements. Yet one can hazard a few
                    generalizations about social change that scholars can refine or reject.18
            
            Despite impassioned pleas for change at midcentury, traditional practices in Indiana's
                    schools often remained powerful. One 
                  
                     16 Moores, Caleb Mills, 379; Gayle Thornbrough,
                            Dorothy L. Riker, and Paula Corpuz, eds., The Diary of Calvin Fletcher (6
                            vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1972–1983). For prominent biographies of various common school
                            reformers, see Jonathan Messerli, Horace Mann: A Biography (
                                New York
                            , 1972); Kathryn Kish Sklar, Catherine Beecher: A Study in American
                                Domesticity (
                                New York
                            , 1973); and Edith Nye Mac-Mullen, In the Cause of True Education:
                                Henry Barnard and Nineteenth-Century School Reform (
                                New Haven
                            , 1991).
                  
                     17 Carl F. Kaestle, Pillars of the Republic: Common
                                Schools and American Society, 1780–1860 (
                                New York
                            , 1983). See note 13 above.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Madison
                            , The Indiana Way, 179–81.
               
                     and two-room schools predominated in many rural areas, making
                    state superintendents and local reformers apoplectic. Though cities such as 
                        Indianapolis
                     had fairly centralized school committees, township trustees remained omnipotent in
                    rural Indiana, where most people lived. The heirs of Whig reform—the Republicans, whose
                    party formed in 1856—agitated for a stronger system of tax-supported schooling, but they
                    trod lightly where traditions of decentralized power remained invincible. Local control of schools
                    and opposition to taxes were already ingrained traits, and local property taxes constituted the
                    almost exclusive source of school funding. As numerous studies indicate, however, Republicans
                    remained committed to reform despite the obstacles. How rapidly did "reforms" from
                    graded classrooms to the creation of high schools spread to different geographical areas of the
                        state?19
            
            Other fruitful areas of investigation in the Victorian period await the historian of Indiana
                    education. Although Indiana's cities—like those elsewhere—today
                    symbolize the worst failures of public education, nineteenth-century reformers saw cities as their
                    great hope. Though often filled with increasing numbers of poor people and, other than in Indiana,
                    with a growing percentage of foreign born, they were everywhere the great testing ground for
                    educational innovation. Graded classrooms, kindergartens, manual training classes, high schools, and
                    other reforms appeared first in the nation's cities. Just as pioneer schools should be
                    understood in their own context so should urban schools of a later period.20
            
            With a larger tax base, quickened economic growth (despite recurrent depressions), and libraries,
                    museums, and other sources of public enlightenment, cities offered a unique site for educational
                    innovation. The heirs of Jefferson called cities the cancer on the body politic, but Whig and then
                    Republican educators endorsed temperance, the work ethic, and moral education as possible cures for
                    the ills of urban life. As economic power became more concentrated and industrialization spread,
                    cities similarly witnessed dramatic changes in school governance and in the nature of schooling.
                        
                  
                     19 On Whig ideology and school reform see Kaestle, Pillars of the Republic, and Daniel Walker Howe, The Political
                                Culture of the American Whigs (
                                Chicago
                            , 1979); on the Republican party see Eric Foner, Free Soil, Free
                                Labor, Free Men: The Ideology of the Republican Party before the Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 1970). Harold Little provided a good introduction to urban education in
                            Indiana in "Development of the City System of
                            Indiana—1851–1880," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XII (September, 1916), 193–213, 299–325.
                  
                     20
                            
                                Madison
                             draws attention to the urban-rural differences in The Indiana
                            Way, 181, 185. On urban reform generally see. Kaestle, Pillars of the
                                Republic; Carl F. Kaestle, The Evolution of an Urban System: 
                                    New York City
                                , 1750–1850 (
                                Cambridge
                            , 1973); Michael B. Katz, The Irony of Early School Reform:
                                Educational Innovation in Mid-Nineteenth Century 
                                    Massachusetts
                                
                      (
                                Cambridge
                            , 1968); Stanley K. Schultz, The Culture Factory: 
                                    Boston
                                 Public Schools, 1789–1860 (
                                New York
                            , 1973); and Selwyn K. Troen, The Public and the Schools: Shaping
                                the 
                                    St. Louis
                                 System, 1838–1920 (
                                Columbia
                            , Mo., 1975).
               
                     In contrast with patterns of decentralized, lay control common
                    in the countryside, city schools were governed by more centralized school committees, who hired
                    superintendents and other professionals to administer the daily workings of local institutions.
                    Reformers hoped that rural folk would emulate, voluntarily or by coercion, the practices of the city
                        systems.21
            
            Despite much popular romanticism about one-room schools and rural education, few professional
                    educators ever had much good to say about them. How to eliminate one-room schools
                    and the lay control embedded in the township would continue to generate conflict well into the
                    twentieth century. Indeed, tensions between central authority and local districts and between
                    professional educators and lay people still surface in contemporary schools.
            Exactly what social roles did schools play in rural areas, where most citizens lived in the mid- to
                    late nineteenth century? Did citizens regularly use their district schools for community meetings,
                    spelling bees, political debates, and other social functions? Who tended to serve as local trustees,
                    and what were the prevailing views of what constituted an essential education? How did the demands
                    of farm life and child labor shape community attitudes toward schooling? Most scholars argue that
                    rural education at the time was largely oriented toward moral education and rudimentary literacy and
                    citizenship training. How pervasive was the view that formal schooling should be limited in terms of
                    years of attendance and courses of study? To what degree were professional educators able to
                    persuade local citizens to offer a wider curriculum and to extend the years of school attendance?
            Other aspects of schooling invite scholarly examination. One striking phenomenon of the nineteenth
                    century was the hiring of women as school teachers. Perhaps the most famous fictional work on
                    teaching in the late nineteenth century is still Edward Eggleston's The
                        Hoosier Schoolmaster. The story of the young teacher, Ralph Hartsook, is set in southern
                    rural Indiana. The pedagogue, an outsider, struggles to preserve his own reputation and also to
                    maintain order and discipline in his one-room school. Though male teachers in impressive numbers
                    still taught in many rural areas, the striking change of the period was the rise of the Hoosier
                    schoolmistress. Men largely managed schools, but women principally taught in them, especially in the
                    lower grades.22
            
            
               
                  12 Wayne E. Fuller, The Old Country School: The Story of
                            Rural Education in the Middle West (
                            Chicago
                        , 1982), is the standard history of rural education. The best study of urban
                        education is still David B. Tyack, The One Best System: A History of American Urban
                            Education (
                            Cambridge
                        , 1974); also see Kaestle, Pillars of the Republic; and Frederick
                        D. Kerschner, Jr., "From Country Town to Industrial City: The Urban Pattern in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," Indiana Magazine of History, XLV (December, 1949),
                        333.
               
                  22 Edward Eggleston, The Hoosier Schoolmaster (1871; 
                            New York
                        , 1965). In addition to Fuller, The Old Country School, read
                        Andrew Gulliford, America's Country Schools (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1984).
            
            
            The scholarly literature on women schoolteachers in the nineteenth century is voluminous, but very
                    little research has been completed on Indiana. Often hired earliest in cities, where graded
                    classrooms eased their movement into the teaching force, women became the main educators of urban
                    schoolchildren by the turn of the twentieth century. A social history of teachers and teaching in
                    rural and urban Indiana would help reveal one of the most dramatic changes affecting local
                    communities. Many histories of Indiana examine the ideas of school superintendents or prominent
                    reformers—almost always white males—but little has been written on the lives
                    and working experiences of those who taught the young. Extant diaries and other local sources may
                    help reveal the social history of women's work at school.23
            
            Male reformers and administrators have left most of the written records on the history of schooling.
                    Their significance in shaping legislation and implementing new policies cannot be underestimated.
                    Still, schools did not simply bend to their will, and various extant sources highlight new avenues
                    for research on the social history of local schools. For example, administrators often gathered
                    considerable information on school enrollments. Indeed, the biennial reports of the state school
                    superintendent often bulge with figures on school attendance, which might lead to more quantitative
                    analyses of school going from the mid- to late nineteenth century before compulsory attendance laws
                    had much effect. Many towns and cities also published occasional reports on aspects of change in
                    local schools, and some school districts have preserved minute books of the meetings of their school
                    committees as well as other ephemera. In addition, the state historical library and state archives
                    hold some important records of local districts. Thus the history of schooling can move beyond the
                    speeches, writings, and exemplary deeds of great men.24
            
            Similarly, most scholarship has been concerned with the white majority. Emma Lou Thornbrough and
                    other scholars have helped illuminate the black experience in Indiana, and the history of black
                    schooling in the nineteenth century remains a fascinating 
                  
                     23 Among the many volumes on women and teaching in the nineteenth
                            century, see Polly Kaufman, Women Teachers on the Frontier (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1984); Nancy Hoffman, Woman's
                                "True" Profession: Voices from the History of Teaching (
                                New York
                            , 1981); and the various essays in Donald R. Warren, ed., American
                                Teachers: Histories of a Profession at Work (
                                New York
                            , 1989).
                  
                     24 Libraries across the state, whether the Lilly Library on the
                            Indiana University 
                                Bloomington
                             campus, or those in various towns and cities, often hold many manuscript
                            collections of interest to scholars of Indiana educational history. The fact that most
                            Indiana towns, cities, and school corporations generally did not publish
                            any printed reports complicates the task of the researcher. 
                                Indianapolis
                            , for example, only published reports occasionally, and Gary did not even print
                            them when its school system was internationally famous. Ronald Cohen's book
                            demonstrates how the use of newspapers and other extant materials can compensate for this
                            problem, but the lack of printed records remains a serious problem nonetheless.
               
                     subject. Excluded from many rural schools before the Civil War
                    and segregated in many schools afterward, blacks were an important litmus test for the idea of a
                    common public school. Radical antebellum reformers believed that all children had
                    a right to a free public education. As many scholars have shown, however, most citizens believed in
                    white supremacy, and midwestern states such as Indiana often opposed southern slavery but also
                    opposed equal rights for free blacks. Local residents were hardly colorblind.25
            
            How Indiana's blacks struggled for quality education for their children has already been
                    analyzed by some scholars. However, nothing resembling James D. Anderson's remarkable work,
                        The Education of Blacks in the South, exists for Indiana. Anderson provides a
                    sophisticated analysis of white corporate philanthropy and black traditions of self-help,
                    highlighting the dialectical reactions of rich and poor in the framing of educational policy.
                    Despite their poverty and white opposition, blacks had run their own secret schools since the time
                    of slavery and had embraced the idea of community activism and the importance of schooling.
                    Uncovering the ways in which Indiana's blacks, whether in small southern districts or in
                    larger urban areas further north, persevered to provide their young with the best education possible
                    would require painstaking research but would provide wonderful insights into the education of an
                    oppressed people. Given the plight of urban blacks at school today, we especially need more
                    knowledge about the role that churches, families, and schools historically played in the formation
                    of Indiana's largest minority group.26
            
            When school men pressed for free, tax-supported public schools in the 1840s, they fought diligently
                    against the contemporary notion that free schools were inferior ones, suitable only for paupers.
                    Reformers at an educational convention in 1847 asked whether the state would allow those with
                    "talent, learning, and enterprise", to gain a sound education regardless of their
                    wealth or family background. As did other antebellum reformers, they called for better-trained
                    teachers, a common curriculum, and a hierarchy of men to supervise the system; they also claimed
                    that education would reduce crime, eliminate ignorance and illiteracy, and promote virtue in a
                    republic. But only the most radical Whigs and 
                  
                     25 Emma Lou Thornbrough, Since Emancipation: A Short
                                History of Indiana Negroes, 1863–1963 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1963); Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                            481–83; and Herman 
                                Murray
                             Riley, "A History of Negro Elementary Education in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVI (December,
                            1930), 288–305. On racism in Indiana and in the Midwest, read Leon F. Litwack,
                                North of Slavery: The Free Negro in the Free States,
                            1790–1860 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1961); V. Jacque Voegeli, Free But Not Equal: The Midwest and the
                                Negro during the Civil War (
                                Chicago
                            , 1967); and Leonard P. Curry, The Free Black in Urban America,
                                1800–1850: The Shadow of the Dream (
                                Chicago
                            , 1981).
                  
                     26 James D. Anderson, The Education of Blacks in the
                                South, 1860–1935 (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1988).
               
                    
                    
                  NEW ALBANY'S "COLORED" SCRIBNER HIGH SCHOOL
                            AND EIGHTH GRADE, 1908 Reproduced
                            from Twenty-Fourth Biennial Report of the State Superintendent of Public
                                Instruction (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1908).
                Republicans had an inclusive definition of citizenship as far as race was concerned.27
            
            The common school was born in an era oriented toward white male rule. Not surprisingly, most
                    histories of Indiana's schools therefore highlight the inspiring speeches of a Caleb Mills
                    but give less attention to teachers, students, or various aspects of the educational process. To
                    determine whether and how the ideals of the leading reformers influenced local practice in the city
                    and the countryside would shed new light on the formative decades of Indiana's public
                    schools.
            III
            The years separating the 1890s and the end of World War II are an especially fruitful time period for
                    historical research on Indiana's schools. From the 1890s through World War I, often called
                    the Progressive era, many citizens in Indiana as elsewhere believed that schools could contribute to
                    human improvement. Schools became increasingly prominent, often blamed for the ills of 
                  
                     27
                            An Address In Relation to Free Common Schools. By a Committee of the State
                                Education Convention (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1847), 7–13, 18–19.
               
                     society, more often expected to cure them. Even the dark days
                    of depression in the 1930s and early 1940s did not dim this faith in the potential of schools.
                    Throughout these decades schools assumed more responsibilities for the welfare of youth and for
                    strengthening the economic and social system. How well local realities squared with the sometimes
                    high-flown rhetoric of the times can help frame future research.28
            
            Between the 1890s and World War I America faced the consequences of massive social change. Industrial
                    growth, immigration from the countryside and southern and central Europe, and the continued growth
                    of cities dramatically transformed the face of America. As many scholars have noted, Indiana
                    remained very rural and traditional in many respects, but it also encountered continual pressures
                    for change. Many citizens supported the continuation of one- and two-room schools and township
                    control and vehemently opposed increased taxes. Old realities and new ideals struggled for dominance
                    during these heady years of reform. Everywhere reformers, with some dramatic successes and failures,
                    tried to adapt Indiana's schools to a rapidly changing society.29
            
            The pace of change was always quickest in cities, still the great hope for professional educators and
                    reformers at the turn of the century. Ronald D. Cohen has written masterful, model studies of the
                    Gary schools, which were led by its famous superintendent, William Wirt, a native of Bluffton. Many
                    writers had previously noted that Gary was not only famous for its steel mills but also for its
                    public schools. But no scholar of Indiana's schools has produced any historical study
                    superior to Cohen's recent book, Children of the Mill. Exhaustively
                    researched and persuasively argued, Cohen's study highlights the value of grass roots
                    research and illustrates the complexity of school reform movements in the twentieth century.30
            
            As Cohen explains, reformers at the turn of the century dramatically expanded the schools'
                    responsibility for social welfare. Superintendent Wirt exemplified the dilemma of Progressive era
                    reformers who wanted to balance a desire for social improvement with contemporary demands for social
                    efficiency. Wirt tried to 
                  
                     28 The literature on Progressive era school reform is voluminous. In
                            addition to Tyack, The One Best System, see Joel H. Spring, Education and the Rise of the Corporate State (
                                Boston
                            , 1972); David J. Hogan, Class and Reform: School and Society in 
                                    Chicago
                                , 1880–1930 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1985); and William J. Reese, Power and the Promise of School
                                Reform: Grass-Roots Movements in the Progressive Era (
                                Boston
                            , 1986).
                  
                     29 For an introduction to the major social changes during this period
                            in Indiana, see Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The Emergence of an
                                Industrial Commonwealth (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968); and 
                                Madison
                            , The Indiana Way.
                  
                     30 Cohen, Children of the Mill; Ronald D. Cohen and
                            Raymond Mohl, The Paradox of Progressive Education: The Gary Plan and Urban
                                Schooling (
                                Port Washington
                            , N.Y., 1979). Also see 
                                Madison
                            , The Indiana Way, 184; Phillips, Indiana in
                                Transition, 397; and Peckham, Indiana, 105.
               
                    
                    
                  LEARNING
                            BY DOING
                            IN FORT WAYNE, 1906 Reproduced from
                                Twenty-Third Biennial Report of the State Superintendent of Public
                                Instruction (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1906).
               
                     maximize use of the local "school plant,"
                    employing an innovative approach called platoon schools, also known as the work-play-study plan.
                    Copied to some degree by hundreds of communities across the nation and even influential outside the 
                        United States
                    , the system not only utilized classrooms and buildings efficiently, appealing to those
                    who favored dominant business ideals, but also expanded the social purposes of education, thereby
                    attracting considerable praise from liberal activists and radical intellectuals.31
            
            Schools throughout Indiana tried to address the knotty problem of how to teach youth new ideals about
                    work, play, and study. Even local educators who did not adopt Gary's approach to scheduling
                    realized that schools faced enormous pressures for change. In the nineteenth century Hoosiers
                    expected schools to teach basic moral values, and children often recited nondenominational
                    Protestant prayers and heard Bible readings without comment from their teachers. Most children
                    studied the Three R's and some history, geography, and grammar in the lower grades and more
                    specialized subjects if they attended high school. As Cohen demonstrates in his well-documented
                    studies, however, the expectations for schools grew enormously in the new century.
            Whether in major cities or in smaller districts, professional educators and social reformers at the
                    turn of the century lobbied vigorously to enhance the schools' role in social welfare.
                    Schools grew in complexity. Organized playgrounds; medical inspection; inexpensive school lunches;
                    classes for the blind, deaf, handicapped, and feeble-minded; new courses in health and physical
                    education; and other innovative subjects became familiar in many town and city systems. School
                    budgets in cities such as 
                        Indianapolis
                     boomed. Very little has been written on the origins, implementation, and social effects
                    of these programs in Indiana communities.32
            
            School sports for boys, especially football and basketball, became more prominent in the late
                    nineteenth century. Indeed, the Indiana High School Athletic Association was formed early in the
                    century to bring order to a sometimes scandal-ridden scene. Despite the state's proverbial
                    love of basketball, rising in importance and locating villages on the map, its evolution has never
                    really received serious scholarly attention. It was, of course, part of the redefinition of the
                    school's role in the early twentieth century. Play became for athletes and spectators a new
                    form of competition as well as of leisure, increasingly synonymous with the local 
                  
                     31 See Cohen, Children of the Mill; and Cohen and
                            Mohl, The Paradox of Progressive Education.
                  
                     32 On the expanded social role of the school, see Lawrence A. Cremin,
                                The Transformation of the School: Progressivism in American Education (
                                New York
                            , 1961). For the study of grass roots pressure for the expansion of social
                            services, see Reese, Power and the Promise of School Reform.
               
                    
                    
                  THE "HAPPY HUNTERS" OF HUNTINGBURG, 1953 Courtesy
                            Raymond and Joyce Blemker.
               
                     high school. There are many studies featuring the box scores of
                    decisive games, and the latter-day heroics of small-town athletes are captured in the film Hoosiers. But why did basketball become such a prominent part of public life?33
            
            There was little to fear that all play and no work would make students dull boys and girls.
                    Throughout the nation the work ethic was the source of considerable discussion at the turn of the
                    century, and how schools should prepare the young for adult responsibilities remained widely
                    debated. Schools traditionally taught the importance of work, application, delayed gratification,
                    and corporal punishment for classroom sins if moral suasion failed. But learning how to earn a
                    living in more explicit ways also became an increasingly prominent aspect of education. Indiana
                    passed legislation in 1913 that required local districts to offer courses in various vocational
                    subjects. Given the recent passage of work force legislation by the General Assembly, a scholarly
                    study of earlier efforts to improve the links between school and work would be welcome. The source
                    materials to study the subject are voluminous. There are dozens of reports, articles, and related
                    materials in the state teachers' magazines such as The Educator-Journal
                    (1900–1924) and The Indiana Teacher, first published in 1925, in the
                    publications of the state school superintendent, and in various bulletins issued by different state
                    bureaus. Towns and cities also published valuable information on the spread of vocationalism in
                    their communities.34
            
            Manual training and then vocational education courses became common in Indiana's schools in
                    the new century, first in the cities and then in the countryside. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which offered manual training courses by the 1880s, opened a Manual Training High
                    School in 1895. Other cities such as 
                        Fort Wayne
                     soon followed suit, and various agricultural education and home economics courses
                    became common in rural schools. The earliest advocates of manual training emphasized its value in
                    training the hand and the mind, but a narrower vocationalism that emphasized utilitarian ends soon
                    displaced this humanistic emphasis. Vocational education was born. Despite the innovative features
                    of Gary's platoon schools, William Wirt's emphasis on work as
                    well as 
                  
                     33
                            
                                Madison
                            , The Indiana Way, 191. There is now a voluminous literature
                            on the history of play; especially see Dominick Cavallo, Muscles and Morals:
                                Organized Playgrounds and Urban Reform, 1880–1920 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1981); Cary Goodman, Choosing Sides: Playground and Street Life
                                on the Lower East Side (
                                New York
                            , 1979); and Roy Rosenzweig, Eight Hours for What We Will: Workers
                                and Leisure in an Industrial City, 1870–1920 (
                                New York
                            , 1983).
                  
                     34 On vocationalism on the national level see Arthur Wirth, Education in the Technological Society (Scranton, Pa., 1972); Harvey
                            Kantor and David B. Tyack, eds., Work, Youth, and Schooling: Historical
                                Perspectives on Vocationalism in American Education (
                                Stanford
                            , 1982); and Harvey Kantor, Learning to Earn: School, Work, and
                                Vocational Reform in 
                                    California
                                , 1880–1930 (
                                Madison
                            , Wis., 1988). For Indiana see Phillips, Indiana In
                            Transition, 398.
               
                     play and study was a widespread concern of contemporaries.
                    Moreover, many citizens increasingly wanted schools to prepare youth directly for the labor
                        market.35
            
            Citizens in the middle of the nineteenth century generally emphasized the importance of moral and
                    religious instruction, but prominent educators early in the twentieth century emphasized more
                    practical goals. School leaders in the Progressive era urged educators to fit youth into an
                    increasingly corporate, interdependent society. Although high schools had long prepared youth to
                    some degree for the labor market—many women students became teachers, and most young men
                    went directly into the working world or to college—schools now promised more specific
                    skills training and job preparation. The common school ideal—the belief that all youth in
                    theory should study the same curriculum—withered as reformers prepared new courses of
                    study in an attempt to fit youth more efficiently into a more centralized, corporate economy.36
            
            How schools addressed thorny issues of race, class, and gender in vocational preparation needs
                    further examination. Indeed, this has barely been addressed in studies of Indiana's
                    schools. A whole new cadre of specialized teachers had joined the instructional force, teachers
                    dedicated to offering marketable skills to youth. As child labor reformers pressured employers, and
                    educators and reformers emphasized to parents the importance of a high school education, teenagers
                    were increasingly replaced by adults in factories, a process that accelerated dramatically during
                    the Great Depression. High school enrollments boomed during the hard times, and public education
                    would never be the same.37
            
            By enrolling a larger percentage of teenagers, schools became more inclusive institutions. In other
                    ways, however, schools became much less inclusive since they embraced more vocational programs that
                    sorted youth into different slots. Indeed, larger systems were especially well equipped to track
                    students, since they increasingly hired a bevy of educational psychologists and guidance counselors
                    who used a growing battery of achievement and intelligence tests to help assign pupils to
                    "appropriate" high school curricula. One of the pioneers of the testing movement,
                    Lewis Terman, was born on a farm near 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana, and later graduated from the state university in 
                        Bloomington
                    . He and other social 
                  
                     35 Phillips, Indiana In Transition,
                            396–97.
                  
                     36 On the nineteenth-century high school see William J. Reese, An Aristocracy of Intellect (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., forthcoming).
                  
                     37 On vocational education and, women see John Rury, Education and Women's Work: Female Schooling and the Division of Labor in
                                Urban America, 1870–1930 (
                                Albany
                            , N.Y., 1991); and Jane Bernard Powers, The "Girl
                                Question" in Education: Vocational Education for Young Women in the Progressive
                                Era (
                                London
                            , 1992). Whereas most historians have applauded restrictions on child labor, see
                            the more sympathetic view of children at work by David Nasaw, Children of the
                                City: At Work and At Play (
                                New York
                            , 1985).
               
                    
                    
                  MANUAL TRAINING
                            FOR TRUANT BOYS, INDIANAPOLIS, 1901 Reproduced from Twentieth Biennial Report of the
                                State Superintendent of public Instruction (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1901).
               
                     scientists accelerated the movement away from the common
                    curriculum toward greater vocationalism in the schools.38
            
            By the turn of the century youth attending graded schools often lacked equal access to academic
                    courses. Still, had vocational courses solved the problem of helping young people find satisfying
                    jobs when they became adults? Was a traditional academic education a better hedge against the
                    vagaries of the work place? Writing during the hard times of the 1930s, a former state
                    superintendent of public instruction complained that "vocational misfits" still
                    wandered Indiana's streets.39 Linking schools to the work place
                    obviously remained imperfectly resolved, though an assortment of administrators, teachers, and
                    reformers continued to lobby for more vocational programs. Indeed, the vocational education lobby
                    stands without peer in educational policy in the twentieth century. That working-class children
                    derive few economic benefits from vocational programs compared to the graduates of academic programs
                    has never deterred its advocates. Can schools in a declining economy resolve vocational problems
                    well or equitably any better today than they did in the 1930s?
            Had schools undermined democratic opportunity by rejecting the ideal of the common school, which
                    implied a common course of study? Did narrower preparation in vocational courses lead to better job
                    opportunities for boys and girls? Critics of schools in the early twentieth century feared that
                    experts and professionals were not selfless but calculating, enhancing their power and prestige
                    while providing the poor, blacks, and immigrants with a second rate curriculum. For example,
                    according to David B. Tyack in The One Best System, still the leading
                    interpretation of Progressive era school reform, intelligence tests were culturally biased, offering
                    supposedly scientific evidence that allowed educators to deny opportunities to those outside the
                    cultural mainstream. College preparatory courses remained largely the province of the native middle
                    and upper classes, while immigrants, blacks, and the poor were often labelled academically inferior
                    and best suited for woodworking or sewing. Turn-of-the-century school reports included photographs
                    that depicted black and white working-class children getting skill training for such servile jobs as
                    boot blacks, maids, and assorted tinkerers. Was such special training necessary for low skilled
                    positions any more than more education is needed to work for fast food chains today?40
            
            
               
                  38 See especially Henry Minton, Lewis M. Terman (
                            New York
                        , 1988); Margo Horn, Before It's Too Late: The Child Guidance
                            Movement in the 
                                United States
                            , 1922–1945 (
                            New York
                        , 1989); Paul Davis Chapman, Schools as Sorters: Lewis M. Terman,
                            Applied Psychology, and the Intelligence Testing Movement (
                            New York
                        , 1988); and Michael M. Sokal, ed., Psychological Testing and American
                            Society, 1890–1930 (
                            New Brunswick
                        , N.J., 1990).
               
                  39 Cotton, Education in Indiana, 406–407.
               
                  40 Tyack, The One Best System; see note 38 above.
            
            
            The leading contemporary educators and mainstream reformers, of course, saw things differently.
                    Educator-historians such as Fassett Cotton and Ellwood Cubberley believed that contemporaries were
                    "rescuing" the high school from its overly pretentious, intellectual roots. As
                    youth attended secondary school in larger numbers, they argued, the local high school might finally
                    become the "people's college." That everyone should study the same
                    subject, they said, was cruel to the less academically endowed pupils who could never compete with
                    the brightest scholars. In contrast, they did not say it was unkind to offer the least advantaged or
                    endowed with the most anemic academic fare. Scientific tests showed that some were smarter than
                    others, and powerful contemporary notions of scientific management emphasized the efficient use of
                    resources, whether in steel mills or school plants. How the ideal of the common school evaporated
                    across much of the state remains largely unwritten.41
            
            One of the major theorists of these changes in Indiana was Milo Stuart, principal of Arsenal
                    Technical High School in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and author of The Organization of a Comprehensive High School in
                    1926. The idea of comprehensive high schools first circulated across the country in the early
                    twentieth century. With different curricular streams under the same roof, comprehensive high schools
                    offered something for everyone: academic and vocational courses to match one's talents,
                    some common courses such as civics to promote common values among everyone, and an array of
                    extracurricular activities to promote social growth. Whether in algebra class or in leather craft,
                    in the Latin Club or on the hardwood, the high school had something for every taste or talent.42
            
            Some critics then and many historians today have called comprehensive high schools undemocratic and
                    anti-intellectual since they offered a high quality academic education only to the few and unfairly
                    streamed disadvantaged students disproportionally into vocational classes. That view was not shared
                    by Stuart and most educational reformers or administrators. Research on the rise of new theories
                    about adolescents and their education and socialization would help explain the origins of a
                    distinctive American institution: the multipurpose, cafeteria-style high school.43
            
            
               
                  41 Cotton, Education in Indiana, chapter 17; and
                        Cubberley, Public Education in the 
                                United States
                            
                  , chapter 8.
               
                  42 Milo H. Stuart, The Organization of a Comprehensive High
                            School (
                            New York
                        , 1926). On the concept of the comprehensive high school, see Edward Krug, The Shaping of the American High School, 1880–1920 (
                            New York
                        , 1964); Edward Krug, The Shaping of the American High. School,
                            1920–1940 (
                            Madison
                        , Wis., 1972); and Spring, Education and the Rise of the Corporate
                            State, chapter 6.
               
                  43 A handful of studies have examined some individual high schools in
                        Indiana. For example, on 
                            Evansville
                         see Ruth G. Gilbert, Central High School: Its History (
                            Evansville
                        , 1932); and Henry A. Meyer, Central High School, Euansuille, Indiana:
                            Its First Hundred Years, 1854–1954 (
                            Evansville
                        , 1954); on 
                            Indianapolis
                         see Laura Sheerin Gaus, Shortridge High School,
                        1864–1981 (Indianapols, 1985).
            
            
            Like most educational writers of the period, Stuart explained that high schools had to meet
                    everyone's "individual needs." This was already becoming one of the great
                    educational cliches of the twentieth century, hard to argue with and difficult to define. As Stuart
                    explained, "a public secondary school has no choice but to meet the interests, the
                    abilities, and the economic necessities of its every individual student, be he dull, normal, or
                    brilliant, and irrespective of his social position, wealth, creed, or race. The old cry of
                    ‘keep him out’ as a solution to the problem of the troublesome boy has been
                    silenced." Experts administered batteries of tests to all youth at select ages, later built
                    "junior" high schools to aid in "pre-vocational" education,
                    sorted youth into the most "appropriate" curricula, and (in theory) then prepared
                    youth for appropriate positions in the working world.44 The system, Stuart
                    argued, was democratic because it met everyone's needs and allowed each youth to feel
                    successful. Critics who complained about testing or course placement of the poor did not halt the
                    movement toward comprehensive high schools in Indiana or elsewhere, and they found little support
                    from educational experts convinced of the superiority of their scientific measurements and
                    predictions of individual potential.
            Urban communities large and small—
                  Evansville, Fort Wayne, Indianapolis
               , and Gary—added courses to
                    their schools unknown to previous generations. Although change came most rapidly in the cities,
                    consolidated township high schools soon added, by state law after 1913, such courses as agricultural
                    science and home economics. The Smith-Hughes Act of 1917, which provided federal funds for some
                    vocational programs, reinforced this trend. Many small schools lacked elaborate curricula, and the
                    many one- and two-room schools still so common in rural and southern Indiana continued to teach
                    traditional subjects in traditional ways. But pressures to consolidate schools, to add more modern
                    and differentiated vocational courses, and to hire more educational experts and professionals
                    continued to grow dramatically.45
            
            This phenomenon of experts and outsiders pressuring lay people and local residents to reform their
                    schools was an old one in Indiana by the 1920s. It only intensified as the economy grew more
                    corporate and as the influence of social scientists and professionals increased. Scientific surveys
                    of schools, usually conducted by professors in university-based schools of education, rose in
                    prominence after World War I. School administration was a new field of study, and personal and
                    professional ties grew between local school administrators in particular communities and their alma
                    maters. Frequently the surveys said exactly what professional 
                  
                     44 Stuart, The Organization of a Comprehensive High
                                School, 3.
                  
                     45 See especially James H. Madison, Indiana through
                                Tradition and Change: A History of the Hoosier State and Its People,
                                1920–1945 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1982).
               
                     educators nearly everywhere wanted to hear: reduce the
                    influence of lay people on school boards, enhance the power of the superintendent, increase the
                    number of vocational courses, add more specialists to administer tests, hire more experts to
                    evaluate tests, and then test some more. Some surveys had little influence on local practices and
                    only confirmed and approved changes already underway; others helped justify major changes in the
                    curriculum or power relations. These surveys, however, contain useful information on local
                    conditions in Indiana's schools.46
            
            A number of Indiana towns, cities, and counties hired outside experts to conduct surveys. Henry
                    Lester Smith, a dean of the School of Education at the university in 
                        Bloomington
                    , published a lengthy study of that town's schools under the auspices of
                    Teachers College, 
                        Columbia
                     University, in 1917. Faculty members at Teachers College as well as at Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , later studied many Indiana districts. Often lavishly illustrated with charts and
                    graphs on school achievement with dozens of photographs, their surveys provided some telling
                    insights into how education on the local level was changing. The rising faith in educational science
                    is clear in all of these reports, as hard facts and statistics replaced the flowing rhetoric of
                    earlier reports from the common school era.47
            
            The survey of 
                        Evansville
                    's schools, published by Teachers College in 1936, contains photographs
                    depicting new school activities: boys in a pasture judging livestock, boys and
                    girls cooking gingerbread cookies in first grade (a progressive classroom, learning by doing), boys
                    learning civic responsibility as crossing guards, children saving money in their school banks, and
                    older girls posing as members of the "Girls Rifle Club." Another photograph, of
                    black female high school students, shows one pupil painting a door frame, another repairing an iron,
                    with the caption: "These future housewives are learning how to repair things that get out
                    of order around the home." The surveys were intended to justify greater professional
                    control and expertise in the schools, yet they also contained remarkable glimpses into the variety
                    of new programs and courses that had entered Indiana's schools.48
            
            The tension between professionals and lay people, especially in rural areas, never completely
                    disappeared. The strain was highlighted in the survey of Indiana's schools completed under
                    the auspices of the General Education Board in the early 1920s. Financed by the Rockefeller
                    Foundation, the survey typically argued what 
                  
                     46 These ideas are developed in great detail in Tyack, The One Best System; and in Tyack and Hansot, Managers of
                            Virtue.
                  
                     47 For a sampling of local surveys examine Henry Lester Smith, A Survey of a Public School System (
                                New York
                            , 1917); and Your Schools: A Survey of the Public Schools, 
                                    Greencastle
                                , Indiana (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1947).
                  
                     48
                            Your Schools: A Report of a Survey of the Public Schools of 
                                    Evansville
                                , Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1936).
               
                     many educators had long believed: that rural schools were
                    inferior, that township trustees stood in the way of progress, that school taxes were too low, and
                    that the state's 4,500 one-room schools could not hope to offer a superior education. When
                    legislators, however, pressed for the elimination of township control and favored shifting power to
                    the county, the Indiana Farm Bureau and other rural interests opposed several associations of
                    professional administrators and teachers to defeat the bill. As in the past, Republicans favored
                    centralization and reform while the Democratic party, especially strong in rural and southern
                    districts, voted for the status quo.49
            
            In the 1920s and 1930s economic pressures nevertheless forced the closing of more one-room schools.
                    Despite considerable support for one-room schools in many rural areas only 616 of them remained in
                    Indiana in 1945. Moreover, consolidated schools in the countryside increasingly added new courses of
                    study and, when finances allowed, social services. Pressure to add such innovations came from the
                    example of the cities, from the labors of new administrators educated at the state
                    teachers' colleges and universities, and from continual lobbying by state bureaucrats in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The larger urban areas had embraced change most rapidly, but the pull of reform drew
                    many unwilling communities within their orbit.50
            
            The lobbying efforts of the Indiana State Teachers Association became more sophisticated and
                    elaborate in the first half of the twentieth century. Most strongly representative of urban
                    districts and of a minority of activist teachers, it lobbied in the halls of the legislature and
                    fought for various reforms in the pages of The Indiana Teacher. It tended to favor
                    better pay for teachers, a longer school year, tenure, retirement benefits, and other
                    bread-and-butter issues. It also endorsed school centralization and the elimination of one-room
                    schools, thereby enabling ruqal teachers to share more of the benefits enjoyed by their urban
                    cosins. By accepting the logic of expertise, consolidation, and centralization, the association
                    tended to share the major assumptions about schooling espoused by its alleged enemies: school
                    superintendents and other administrators. The values of corporate America were irresistible.51
            
            
               
                  49
                        
                            Madison
                        , Indiana through Tradition and Change, 266–74; and
                        James H. Madison, "John D. Rockefeller's General Education Board and the Rural
                        School Problem in the Midwest, 1900–1930," History of Education
                            Quarterly, XXIV (Summer, 1984), 181–99.
               
                  50 On rural schools see 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana through Tradition and Change, 274; and Fuller, The Old Country School.
               
                  51 Evidence for the above claims is documented in a report commissioned by
                        the Indiana Education Policy Center, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        , entitled "Governing Indiana's Public Schools: A Historical
                        Inquiry," 1993.
            
            
            Teachers today are often discouraged by the problems of poor school funding, and history provides few
                    examples of a happier past. That is, even as school enrollments and new programs expanded, Indiana
                    ranked low in per capita expenditure on education for a northern state throughout the early decades
                    of the twentieth century. The General Education Board in its survey placed the blame on the township
                    system and on the almost exclusive reliance upon local property taxes to fund schools. The existing
                    funding practice meant that per capita expenditure was often wildly unequal from district to
                    district. The movement to provide state aid nevertheless progressed slowly, since traditions of
                    local control remained strong. The legislature first provided some modest tax relief for poor
                    districts early in the century but hardly ended resistance to outside interference. The Great
                    Depression accelerated support for state aid, and following reform legislation passed in 1933, by
                    1940 about one-quarter of school monies on average came from 
                        Indianapolis
                    . How local communities coped with the trauma of economic depression and the prospects
                    of more state influence in local schools deserves further examination.52
            
            Future studies of Indiana schools in the 1920s and 1930s should highlight the continual expansion of
                    enrollments, especially dramatic on the secondary level, and the continual growth of the nonacademic
                    dimensions of schools, which demonstrably changed the social functions of education. Educators faced
                    larger enrollments during the depression. The fact that work opportunities for teenagers disappeared
                    enhanced the custodial functions of public schools. Not without evidence educators often claimed
                    that traditional academic subjects bored their students, which claim justified the search for more
                    classes that appealed to students' "interests" and for more social
                    activities to occupy their leisure time. A study concerning the ways that high schools adapted to
                    these changes would help reveal the changing nature of growing up during these years.53
            
            High school pupils generated considerable material about themselves in their annual yearbooks and
                    school newspapers. Not every student's point of view, of course, is found in these
                    materials, but the extension of school going to those who previously withdrew early for the work
                    place created a veritable youth culture. As revealed in their publications, students joined an
                    inordinate number of clubs and learned to play musical instruments, to march in the high school
                    band, and to cheer for the boys on the court or gridiron. This was called "school
                    spirit." Principals and teachers censored 
                  
                     52
                            
                                Madison
                            , Indiana through Tradition and Change, 269; and 
                                Madison
                            , The Indiana Way, 251.
                  
                     53 David B. Tyack, Robert Lowe, and Elisabeth Hansot, Public Schools in Hard Times: The Great Depression and Recent Years (
                                Cambridge
                            , 1984) is the standard study of schools during the depression.
               
                     student publications; however, yearbooks and student newspapers
                    still contain useful material for the discerning scholar. Paula Fass, in a brilliant analysis of 
                        New York City
                     high schools in the 1930s, has demonstrated how scholars can use yearbooks and student
                    materials to reconstruct the history of peer relations that remain sensitive to ethnicity, race,
                    religion, gender, and social class.54
            
            Certainly the history of race relations underwent important changes during the 1920s and 1930s and
                    not always for the better. Scholars have a virtually open field for study in this area. Separate
                    black high schools existed in many small towns and cities in southern Indiana in the early twentieth
                    century—in Corydon, New 
                  Albany,
                            Princeton, Jeffersonville, Mount Vernon
               , and 
                        Evansville
                    . How did these schools answer the call for more vocational studies and for more
                    nonacademic activities for their scholars? What role did these schools play in preparing black youth
                    for life? In 
                        Indianapolis
                     the school commissioners—hardly advocates of racial integration
                    themselves—succumbed to racist pressures and despite strong black opposition built a
                    segregated high school, Crispus Attucks, in the 1920s. This reversed the tradition of locally
                    integrated high schools begun in the 1870s, when some Republicans defended the right of blacks to
                    attend 
                        Indianapolis
                     High. Later a basketball powerhouse, Attucks was a source of pride for some in the
                    black community but faced pressures to weaken its academic curriculum by the 1930s, exactly what
                    early opponents had predicted.55
            
            By the 1920s and 1930s schools in Indiana showed the strains of tradition and change. Many youth
                    still attended small schools; the typical high school in 1920 had less than one hundred students.
                    However, as the economy became more corporate and interdependent, as professionals pressed for more
                    power, and as demands for a practical rather than intellectual education for the masses grew,
                    schools even in rural Indiana felt the winds of change. Most elementary school teachers were still
                    women, taught in self-contained classrooms, received low pay, and were expected to live exemplary
                    lives. But change proved irresistible in the 1920s, either because small schools were deemed
                    uneconomical in the countryside or, as in the case of blacks in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , whites opposed neighborhood and school integration.56
            
            
               
                  54 Paula Fass, Outside/In: Minorities and the Transformation
                            of American Education (
                            New York
                        , 1989).
               
                  55 Phillips, Indiana In Transition, 401; Judy Jolley
                        Mohraz, The Separate Problem: Case Studies of Black Education in the North,
                            1900–1930 (
                            Westport
                        , Conn., 1979); Social Science Department Teachers, Crispus Attucks High School, Historical Sketch of Crispus Attucks High School (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1948); and Frederick K. Gale, "The First Twenty-Five Years of Crispus
                        Attucks High School, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1927–1952" (Master's thesis, Ball State
                        Teachers College, 1955), 26–30.
               
                  56 Phillips, Indiana In Transition, 395.
            
            
            
               TEACHERS
                        OF NEW ALBANY'S "COLORED" HIGH SCHOOL, 1908
                        Reproduced from Twenty-Fourth Biennial Report of the State Superintendent of Publir
                            Instruction (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1908).
            
            
            When Robert S. Lynd and Helen M. Lynd published Middle-town in 1929, they captured
                    the essence of how schools had changed even in small towns in Indiana since the late nineteenth
                    century. In 
                        Muncie
                    , they noted, the high school in the 1890s was a small, relatively insignificant
                    institution. In the 1920s, however, many prominent citizens asked why more youth were not graduating
                    from high school or aspiring to college! The Lynds noticed many indices of change: classes were
                    carefully age-graded, and student schedules were divided (like an assembly line) into time periods;
                    vocational courses aplenty existed for the non-college bound; and school sports, unknown a
                    generation before, often captivated the community. Social studies (as the prophets of the
                    comprehensive high school asserted) taught students that they lived in a democracy and that they had
                    a role in their interdependent society. The Lynds concluded: "The high school, with its
                    athletics, clubs, sororities and fraternities, dances and parties, and other
                    ‘extracurricular activities,’ is a fairly complete social cosmos in itself,
                    and about this city within a city the social life of the intermediate generation
                        centers."57
            
            Between the 1890s and World War II schools had been tugged by familiar and opposite forces: farm and
                    city, lay person and expert, those who equated progress with expertise, centralized control, and
                    expanded school services and those who did not. Scholars who study Indiana schools during these
                    years may endorse or denigrate the rise of the cult of science and expertise in education. They may
                    applaud or condemn the disappearance of the ideal of the common school. They may question whether
                    meeting the "needs" of children was an excuse for denying everyone access to a
                    high-quality academic education. But students of Indiana's history will find no shortage of
                    subjects to study or controversies to adjudicate.
            The social history of Indiana's schools during the decades immediately preceding World War
                    II is remarkably rich but little studied. Yet much that remains familiar in today's schools
                    started to appear with greater visibility during those years. For better or worse the idea grew
                    prominent, justified by educators and social scientists, that many students could not profit from
                    rigorous academic instruction and that schools should principally prepare youth for work or careers.
                    Indeed, a social consensus formed: schools should provide something for everyone, whether through
                    specialized courses, school clubs, sports, or other extracurricular activities. There was more of a
                    community consensus, however, about a winning sports team than a strong debating team and hardly any
                    faith, unfortunately, that poorer whites or most blacks should have schools equal in quality to the
                    best ones in the state.
            
               
                  57 Robert S. Lynd and Helen Merrell Lynd, 
                     
                                Middletown
                            ; A Study in American Culture (
                            New York
                        , 19291, Part III. The quotation is on page 211.
            
            
            The war itself had unexpected consequences on the nature of schooling and community expectations for
                    education. Reminiscent of World War I, many local schools were active in war-related work, as
                    students gathered scrap metal and grew victory gardens. Explicitly patriotic school activities
                    became commonplace, and the Victory Corps and other federally initiated programs appeared,
                    especially in urban high schools. None of this was surprising since schools by their nature are
                    conservative institutions, responding strongly to dominant values about patriotism.58
            
            Less expected was the effect that the war had on women and blacks, in Indiana as elsewhere.
                    Women's importance in the labor force increased, and even the emphasis on domesticity for
                    women after the war hardly halted their movement out of the home into the workplace. For blacks who
                    helped defeat fascism in yet another war for democracy, the prospect of racial segregation was
                    unpalatable. The war had not been fought to change women's behavior or to stir black
                    discontent, but that was nevertheless the result. Schools had long been a barometer of social
                    change, and some citizens would again invest schools with additional social responsibilities despite
                    their inability to solve every problem, however serious.
            IV
            Very few histories have been published on the evolution of Indiana's public schools after
                    World War II. Some surveys such as 
                        Madison
                    's The Indiana Way provide guidance for the student of the
                    recent past, highlighting broad themes worthy of further examination. Overall, however, scholarship
                    on the history of education since midcentury is generally thin, even though the schools'
                    importance in shaping children's lives probably increased over time and even though
                    citizens continued to expect schools to respond to new social changes.59
            
            Like the rest of the nation, Indiana faced a host of social concerns after midcentury: the continued
                    expansion of high school enrollments, the emergence of a youth culture, the cold war, and the civil
                    rights movement in the 1950s; the spread of affluent white suburbs and the impoverishment of
                    nonwhite inner cities; various government efforts to improve the education of the poor 
                  
                     58 Richard M. Ugland has written outstanding essays on adolescents
                            during the war years. See especially "Viewpoints and Morale of Urban High School
                            Students During World War II—
                                Indianapolis
                             as a Case Study," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            LXXVII (June, 1981), 150–78; and "‘Education for
                            Victory,’ The High School Victory Corps and Curricular Adaptation during World
                            War II," History of Education Quarterly, XIX (Winter, 1979),
                            435–51. Also see his thoughtful dissertation, "The Adolescent Experience
                            during World War II: 
                                Indianapolis
                             as a Case Study," (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , 1977).
                  
                     59
                            
                                Madison
                            , The Indiana Way, passim.
               
                    
                    
                  PATRIOTISM
                            AND
                            THE SCHOOLS Reproduced from To Form A
                                More Perfect Union (
                                Indianapolis
                             Public Schools, 1948).
               
                     and to address racial segregation in the 1960s; the rise of
                    feminist criticisms of school and society; the continued long march toward school consolidation
                    during the postwar years; and the revival of conservative political and educational reform movements
                    in the 1970s and 1980s, especially pronounced as state Republicans responded to a growing reform
                    spirit after the publication of The Nation at Risk by the Republicans in 
                        Washington
                    . Efforts by the state Republican party to reform schools through a host of new
                    initiatives grew throughout the 1980s and were largely continued through the administration of the
                    new Democratic governor, Evan Bayh.60
            
            How well did schools respond to these many-sided efforts to adapt to changing political, economic,
                    and social realities following World War II? How well were policy recommendations by state
                    officials, prominent local reformers, and educators at various levels implemented? What enduring
                    problems in Indiana's schools remained unresolved during these decades? How did traditions
                    of local school governance and opposition to taxes, expertise, and district consolidation shape
                    Indiana's recent past? These sorts of questions may help scholars reconstruct the recent
                    history of Indiana's public schools.
            The importance of schooling grew dramatically as America became an international power following
                    World War II. The vocational role of schools had expanded throughout the century, and the removal of
                    most teenagers from the work force by the 1940s accelerated secondary school attendance.
                    America's fight against fascism abroad encouraged civil rights activists to combat racism
                    at home, including school segregation. Indeed, whether schools could promote a more democratic
                    social order soon became a prominent topic among local and state-level educators. These aspects of
                    Indiana's educational history have hardly been explored, but the school's role in
                    enhancing civic life and in promoting greater opportunities for disadvantaged citizens intensified
                    after the war.61
            
            For example, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     school commissioners in 1948 affirmed the "strategic role of the public
                    schools and public libraries as guardians of our free institutions." In now familiar
                    language but with greater urgency, educators promised "to permit and encourage the fullest
                    development of the capacities of each individual and the maximum use of these capacities for
                    personal and social good." The commissioners' report, To Form a More
                        Perfeet 
                     
                        60 The National Commission on Excellence in Education, The Nation At Risk (
                                    Washington
                                , 1983).
                     
                        61 For general historical surveys of schools since the 1950s,
                                compare Joel H. Spring, The Sorting Machine Revisited (
                                    New York
                                , 1991); Joel H. Spring, with Diane Ravitch, The Troubled
                                    Crusade: American Education, 1945–1980 (
                                    New York
                                , 1983).
                  
                         Union, summed up contemporary educational thought:
                    that "school spirit" generated by clubs and sports and not just academic
                    achievement was essential; that society was "interdependent" and thus required
                    different classes of cooperative workers; that different children should thus study different
                    courses of study; and that every modern school therefore depended upon testing, guidance, and
                    correct placement of every pupil in the comprehensive high school.62
            
            Preparing and sorting youth for the labor market remained central to Indiana's schools in
                    the 1950s as America's cold war with the 
                        Soviet Union
                     escalated. Manpower planning became a vital concern of the federal government and the
                    emerging multinational corporations, and the rise of a youth culture and the civil rights
                    movement—which obviously affected the nature of the future labor force—added
                    new concerns for educational leaders. Throughout the nation adult fears of juvenile delinquency
                    accelerated.
            Movies highlighted new social concerns. Racial strife among students and the hostility of working
                    class adolescents toward their teachers dominated the controversial film Blackboard
                        Jungle. Hundreds of commercial films of varying quality soon appeared on juvenile
                    delinquency, including Marlon Brando in The Wild Ones and Indiana native James
                    Dean in Rebel without a Cause. Whether depicting rough working class toughs or
                    confused middle class adolescents, these and other films demonstrated the era's fears of
                    young adults. Teenagers from all social classes had increasingly been removed from the full-time job
                    market, and their childhood in a sense had been extended by compulsory school attendance and by a
                    growing expectation that more pupils should also graduate. Going to high school became almost
                    universal, but did Indiana's youth typically behave like those portrayed in the movies?63
            
            All of this emphasis on preparing youth for work, of course, had precedents in the early twentieth
                    century, as social reformers and educators implemented vocational programs to prepare certain youth
                    for the labor market. This secularization of the schools was a subtle process that probably
                    ultimately undermined a particular kind of Protestant, nondenominational moral education 
                  
                     62
                            To Form a More Perfect Union (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1948), 3, 5, 6, 11. The best general histories of the modern high schools are
                            by Robert L. Hampel, The Last Little Citadel: American High Schools Since
                            1940 (
                                Boston
                            , 1986); Theodore R. Sizer, Horace's Compromise: The
                                Dilemma of he American High School (
                                Boston
                            , 1984); and Arthur G. Powell, Eleanor Farrar, and David K. Cohen, The Shopping Mall High School: Winners and Losers in the Educational Marketplace (
                                Boston
                            , 1985).
                  
                     63 On popular culture, teenagers, and fears of juvenile delinquency in
                            the 1950s, especially see James Gilbert, A Cycle of Outrage: America's
                                Reaction to the Juuenile Delinquent in the 1950s (
                                New York
                            , 1986); and William Graebner, Coming of Age in 
                                    Buffalo
                                : Youth and Authority in the Postwar Era (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1991).
               
                     once common in Indiana's schools. The reading of
                    excerpts from the King James Bible and morning recitation of the Lords Prayer were common in
                    Indiana's schools before the early 1960s, when state-sponsored school prayers and Bible
                    reading were ruled unconstitutional by the U. S. Supreme Court. Even the courts could not dislodge
                    traditional practices from local schools, especially in rural communities. Recent controversies over
                    how to respond to the court's ban on graduation day prayers reveal the continual tension
                    over how public schools should address the issue of religion and moral education.
            By the 1950s Indiana's schools had a strongly vocational orientation and had become very
                    secular despite the daily invocations of prayer. Understanding the nature of schooling in the 1950s
                    remains a complicated task for the historian. How powerfully did peer culture shape the lives of
                    students, who now spent an unprecedented number of years together in school? Did new teaching
                    methods, ostensibly more child-centered and experimental, enter the classroom? Did the ghost of John
                    Dewey and his disciples hover over the state's thousands of classrooms?
            In 1958 the state Department of Public Instruction produced a pamphlet entitled A Good
                        Start in School. After claiming that schools should help further the development of the
                    whole child, it condemned "authoritarian classrooms" and praised pedagogical
                    innovation. "Only through day-by-day living in a child-size democratic society in the
                    classroom, sharing its responsibilities, and solving its problems, can children be prepared for the
                    assumptions of the privileges and responsibilities of free men in a democracy later on."
                    The report included a photograph of a classroom depicting young children sitting around a table,
                    without bolted-down seats, cooperating in small groups. Had progressive ideals supplanted the
                    familiar teacher-centered classroom as conservative critics who endorsed back-to-the-basics
                        claimed?64
            
            Oral histories of students, teachers, administrators, and other citizens can help supplement
                    traditional written materials to reveal the social history of Indiana's schools since World
                    War 11. Certainly one of the era's most volatile issues, besides fears of Russian armies
                    and American teenagers, was the place of blacks in American society. In 1949 Indiana passed a state
                    desegregation law. However, apparently little was done in many communities to integrate schools, and
                    demographic changes in urban areas in particular 
                  
                     64 Indiana State Department of Public Instruction, A Good
                                Start in School (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1958), 3, 21, 179. See the previously cited books by Ravitch and by Spring in
                            note 61; both describe the nature of conservative complaint in the 1950s. On the history of
                            teaching see the pathbreaking works by Larry Cuban, How Teachers Taught:
                                Constancy and Change in American Classrooms (
                                New York
                            , 19841, and Teachers and Machines: The Classroom Use of Technology
                                Since 1920 (
                                New York
                            , 1986).
               
                     and white resistance to racial equality in general would soon
                    militate against the prospect of widespread integration.65
            
            "The decade since 1950 has done much to completely eliminate the idea of second class
                    citizenship or white supremacy from across the face of Indiana," claimed the
                    Governor's Youth Council in 1959 in its report to the White House Conference on Children
                    and Youth. (The council represented 150 different professional, business, and voluntary associations
                    from across the state, and it deserves further study.) In the next breath, however, the authors of
                    the report admitted that throughout the Hoosier state "the civil right [sic] problem, of course, differs from place to place." Moreover, the authors further
                    argued that many urban schools in the state were "attended entirely by Negro
                    children." In school corporations with black pupils, blacks were disproportionally streamed
                    into nonacademic vocational programs if they attended integrated schools, or they otherwise attended
                    the most dilapidated, least desirable schools if they were formally segregated. As suburbs spread
                    and remained largely white and affluent and inner cities became more nonwhite and poor, an American
                    version of racial apartheid became common in many metropolitan areas.66
            
            An especially important legislative initiative at the time, influencing smaller areas more than
                    cities, was the School Reorganization Act of 1959, which accelerated the process of school
                    consolidation. Though school funding remained largely based upon local property taxes until the
                    early 1970s, which fact meant unequal expenditures in different districts, consolidation further
                    enhanced the power of educational professionals and reduced lay influence. Consolidation enabled
                    schools to offer more courses of study, to provide larger libraries and improved science and
                    language laboratories, and to standardize curricular offerings across the state. Support for a
                    common curriculum for everyone had begun to evaporate in urban areas by the turn of the century, and
                    greater program differentiation accelerated in rural districts as they further consolidated. The
                    School Reorganization Act of 1959 was so effective that the number of Indiana school corporations
                    dropped from 939 to 382 by 1968.67
            
            The phenomenon of consolidating rural or village schools was hardly unique to Indiana. Still, how
                    well did Hoosiers react to changes largely imposed from outside their communities by educational
                    experts and legislators? What determined which districts in the 1960s moved more rapidly than others
                    toward consolidation? 
                  
                     65
                            
                                Madison
                            , Indiana through Tradition and Change, 281.
                  
                     66 See Reaching Toward Progress: Indiana's
                                Report Concerning Her Children and Youth Made to the Golden Anniversary (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 19591, I, 7–8, II, 403–404, on the fate of blacks in 
                                Indianapolis
                            . On racial discrimination in Gary, see Cohen, The Children of the
                                Mill.
                  
                     67
                            
                                Madison
                            , The Indiana Way, 250–52.
               
                     What role did local attachment to high school sports teams play
                    in local resistance?68
            
            With the closing of many small high schools, a process that had begun earlier in the century, many
                    communities lost a sense of control over local institutions. Large consolidated systems replaced
                    many smaller, competing districts, and the distinctive identities of local schools slowly
                    disappeared. Gone were the Fort Branch Twigs, the West Baden Spurtles, and the Marengo Cavemen. When
                    the Happy Hunters of 
                        Huntingburg
                     consolidated with the Holland Dutchmen, they became the Southridge Raiders. Some of the
                    uniqueness of localism was sacrificed, part of a larger process of economic and social change. Chain
                    stores and Wal-Marts in strip malls also soon undermined family-owned businesses on the town square
                    in the 1970s and 1980s. Is there any evidence that the loss of smaller districts through
                    consolidation resulted in significant gains in academic achievement among pupils? Were schools more
                    efficiently managed, or did most savings go to the increased numbers of administrators hired in the
                    larger consolidated districts as well as transportation costs?
            Throughout the 1960s demographic change and legislative reforms altered some of the characteristics
                    of local schools. The consolidation of rural districts and smaller school systems, the separation of
                    races and classes in Indiana's towns and cities, and the widening split between cities and
                    suburbs helped define the social history of the period. Very little has been written on the impact
                    of federal programs upon Indiana's schools, including Head Start, Upward Bound, or Higher
                    Horizons. And few historians have examined the struggle for racial integration in Indiana's
                    cities, the debates over busing and its effectiveness in integrating schools, or the changes in
                    teaching practices in the 1960s or early 1970s, reflecting perhaps greater interest in experimental
                    schools, team teaching, or open classrooms by some younger educators.69
            
            How did the rise in teenage, after-school employment in the fast food industry after 1960 affect
                    attitudes toward homework and school achievement? How well did schools compete for the attention of
                    pupils in an age of television, popular culture, and ever-growing materialism? Was there any
                    balanced approach to work, play, and study in local schools? Certainly schools throughout the state
                    remained multipurpose institutions: offering something for everyone whether through course work or
                    extracurricular activities. Did relations between teachers and students change, 
                  
                     68 On the phenomenon of school consolidation in the Midwest, see
                            Fuller, The Old Country School.
                  
                     69 For a comparative look at educational change see Harold and Pamela
                            Silver, An Educational War on Poverty: American and British Policy Making,
                                1969–1984 (
                                Cambridge
                            , 1991).
               
                     given the rise of the so-called "generation
                    gap" and the popularity of new pedagogical values among some teachers in the 1960s?70
            
            By the early 1970s, as conservatism reappeared in reaction to the antiwar movement and the ideology
                    of Great Society liberalism, a resurgent Republicanism in Indiana as elsewhere pressed for controls
                    on property taxes and school expenditures. A property tax freeze in 1973 further forced local
                    schools to rely upon state funding; since then about two-thirds of school expenditures on average
                    have come from 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Educators and reformers had long advocated such reforms. The preponderance of funding
                    coming from 
                        Indianapolis
                     did not eliminate inequalities in funding from district to district, an issue still
                    facing reformers today, but the practice constituted a major change in public policy, further
                    centralizing state power and reducing local authority.71
            
            State officials and legislators pressed for more accountability from local schools as inflation
                    skyrocketed in the late 1970s and better paying jobs in northern industrial towns began to
                    disappear. Low paying service jobs replaced many of the better paying ones of yesteryear. Indeed,
                    decent jobs often vanished for the poor trapped in inner cities, as increasingly self-sufficient and
                    prosperous white suburbs turned their backs on the urban core. Schools again became the target of a
                    new generation of activists who called for reform. Unlike reforms in the 1960s, the latter activism
                    was not driven by particular concern for minorities, either blacks or the increased numbers of
                    Latinos or Hispanics in urban centers but reflected the values of a new conservatism, especially
                    prominent during the Ronald Reagan and George Bush years.
            Although its effects on schools remain poorly documented, the call for back-to-the-basics was heard
                    anew in the 1970s and 1980s. Like citizens elsewhere, Hoosiers increasingly grew more critical of
                    the public schools. Reformers soon called for a longer school year, higher academic standards, and
                    state-wide testing. Critics attacked schools for failing to teach job skills, moral values,
                    discipline, or academic achievement, and newspaper editorials routinely bemoaned the qualifications
                    of teachers and the behavior of students. Many writers argued or implied that schools contributed to
                    many of the ills of society, yet they still seemed to believe that schools should play a
                    constructive role in social improvement. While the 1970s to the present will properly be remembered
                    as an age of educational conservatism, other movements less conservative in nature also affected
                    educational thought and practice.
            
               
                  70 On the new federal programs in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , see Your Federal Funds at Work in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                   (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1967).
               
                  71
                        
                            Madison
                        , The Indiana Way, 252. On the revival of conservative reform
                        movements in education, see Ira Shor, Culture Wars: School and
                            Society in the Conservative Restoration, 1969–1984 (
                            Boston
                        , 1986).
            
            
            For example, federal legislation in the 1970s required schools to provide the least restrictive
                    learning environment for children with special needs; these children, who had a range of physical
                    and mental disabilities or learning problems, had historically been excluded from the system or
                    taught in segregated classes. Urban centers in Indiana as elsewhere first created special classes
                    for "backward," "feeble minded," and other children who were
                    difficult to teach or manage. Their inclusion had added to the growing responsibilities of the
                    system, and so did the reforms initiated in the 1970s.
            The social history of contemporary schools in Indiana would be incomplete without careful attention
                    to the rise of special education, mainstreaming, and movements to include all
                    children in the regular classroom. Again, while many citizens continued to blame the schools for
                    every social ill, others argued by the 1990s that every child, despite the severity of any
                    particular learning problem, belonged in a regular classroom in the neighborhood school. While these
                    initiatives came largely from the federal government, state and local activists pushed for
                    educational changes in a number of different directions.72
            
            Indiana's Republican leaders advocated a host of reforms in the 1980s. Republicans had
                    tended to favor various reforms—from consolidation to vocational
                    education—since the Progressive era. It is not surprising, therefore, that, since they
                    controlled the governor's office for twenty years before Evan Bayh's election,
                    Republicans were in the forefront of much noisy debate about reform. Assessing their influence will
                    be central to any contemporary history of educational reform.
            Many educators and social reformers in the 1960s worried about the fate of equality of educational
                    opportunity and wanted to spend more money on the education of the poor and minority groups.
                    Republican reformers in the 1980s, in contrast, called for more accountability in the schools,
                    higher academic standards, the elimination of superfluous course offerings, and the promotion of
                    overall classroom excellence. Early in the decade state Republicans supported Prime Time, an effort
                    to reduce class size in the lowest grades. Governor Robert Orr and prominent Republicans in the
                    state department of education later sponsored the A+ Program, which proposed various ways to improve
                    Indiana's schools: a longer school year, extra money for high achieving districts, grants
                    to help at-risk youth, more aid to districts to purchase textbooks, and other related reforms.
                    Subsequent efforts to "restructure" local schools became the most prominent
                    panacea of the 
                  
                     72 Many studies of educational reform at the turn of the century give
                            passing reference to the rise of special programs for the blind, deaf, feeble-minded, and so
                            forth. Despite some article-length studies, historical research on the changing nature of
                            "special education" is not very extensive.
               
                     early 1990s; advocates of restructuring endorsed better
                    on-site, decentralized management of local schools and more power for principals and greater
                    involvement of parents.73
            
            Most state policy documents of the 1980s appropriated the language and guiding assumptions of The Nation At Risk. This famous federal report had claimed that Americans faced
                    stiff competition in a global economy and that schools had contributed to the declining economy and
                    other social ills. (Criticism of corporate executives or political elites was noticeably absent in
                    the report.) Historians studying the recent past will learn that citizens in the 1980s often heard
                    or read that they increasingly lived in an "information age" and in a
                    postindustrial world, which explained why school performance mattered more than ever. As Indiana
                    Republicans continued to endorse change, they again stressed that schools were essential to the
                    economy, whose health depended upon higher levels of achievement, high school graduation, vocational
                    preparation, and college attendance. Otherwise, it was alleged that the Japanese would continue to
                    defeat America in the race for dominance over world markets.74 Even in Indiana
                    the first Evan Bayh campaign produced television commercials widely perceived as garden-variety 
                        Japan
                    -bashing.
            In the 1992 gubernatorial contest, won handily by Evan Bayh, the two major political parties agreed
                    not to debate educational issues very much, showing the strongly conservative cast of the
                    state's Democratic leadership. Many of the innovations advocated by
                    Republicans—especially more achievement tests and vocational education, for
                    example—have bipartisan support. Whigs and Republicans most firmly supported
                    Indiana's public schools in the middle of the nineteenth century, and with few exceptions
                    Indiana's Democratic party has not stood in the forefront of school reform. As the national
                    Democratic leadership became more moderate, it regained power in 
                        Washington
                     in 1992 in part by endorsing mainstream Republican ideas about excellence and economic
                    competition. The only substantial difference seems to be that leading Republicans support school
                    choice plans that include private schools while Bill 
                        Clinton
                     Democrats endorse school choice plans restricted to the public schools. Leading Indiana
                    Democrats have not put forth a distinctive set of educational initiatives and seem to stand in the
                    shadow of the Republican opposition.
            The history of Indiana's public schools certainly offers numerous avenues for study. Earlier
                    generations of educator-historians who wrote about the evolution of the state's system were
                    insiders, 
                  
                     73 The educational reforms of Indiana Republicans are conveniently
                            summarized in From the Drawing Board to the Chalk Board: Indiana's A+
                                Program for Educational Excellence Adopted by the 1987 Indiana General Assembly (
                                Indianapolis
                            , n.d.).
                  
                     74
                            The Nation at Risk, passim.
               
                     proud of the achievements of Indiana's schools. Their
                    faith in the goodness and desirability of public education was pervasive, and along with many
                    professionally trained historians assumed that schools led to progress and more opportunity for
                    everyone.
            That faith seems naive today, but the capacity of citizens to believe that schools either cause most
                    of the nation's problems or can fix most of them still seems immense. Only a handful of
                    citizens publicly question whether the latest spate of reforms—more work force programs
                    under the label "Tech Prep," more state testing,
                    "restructuring," or the purchase of more computers—will lead to
                    educational salvation. To question those in power who enjoy bipartisan support would probably invite
                    censure. Would reformers be pleased to know that local reformers have tried vocational education
                    before and have tested children to death since the 1920s? Moreover, to expect schools to solve
                    nearly every social ill ensures that they will fail given the enormity of the task and relative
                    paucity of resources and will.
            Perhaps studying history might reveal that schools face some intractable problems: a public awash in
                    materialism but which funds schools as cheaply as possible, teachers who themselves sometimes lack
                    the highest academic qualifications and are expected to teach many children from unstable and
                    difficult homes and neighborhoods, students who in turn face the prospects of an economy with more
                    low-paying service jobs, and the enduring effects of poverty upon many youth in the city and
                    countryside.
            How will more vocational education and statewide testing, for example, address most of these daily
                    issues in the lives of teachers and students? These reforms were born in the early twentieth
                    century, with mixed results, and their reincarnation, without debate, shows the fearful results of
                    ignoring the past. Predicting the future is not the strong suit of the historian, but knowing
                    something about Indiana's educational heritage offers new perspectives on its historic
                    commitment to public schooling. Knowing history is a sobering experience but a path to greater
                        enlightenment.75
            
            
               
                  75 Recent assessments of Indiana schools include a report by the Indiana
                        Department of Education and the Indiana Curriculum Advisory Council of the State Board of
                        Education, Indiana Schooling for the Twentieth-Century (n.p., 1987); and
                        Harold L. Hodginson, Indiana: The State and Its Educational System (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1987).
            
         
         
         
            On Convoy Duty in World War I: The Diary of Hoosier Guy Connor
            
                    Edited by Jeffrey L. Patrick⋆
                
            During World War I the 
                        United States
                     Navy's primary role was the safe transport of troops and supplies to the war
                    in Europe rather than classic engagements with enemy ships on the high seas. This vital mission
                    guaranteed the arrival of over two million American troops to the front lines, along with tons of
                    supplies to support them, in the short nineteen-month period of active 
                        United States
                     involvement in the war. The navy could proudly claim that no American troop transport
                    was lost to enemy submarines while eastbound to Europe. "For this splendid
                    record," wrote one report, "the Navy, which armed, manned, and convoyed the troop
                    transports, deserves the highest commendation."1
            
            Some 503,000 enlisted men and 32,000 officers were serving in the American Navy at the time of the
                    November, 1918, armistice.2 One of these enlisted sailors who helped protect the
                    flow of American troops and supplies to the Allies was Guy Burrell Connor, a resident of Cromwell,
                        Indiana.3 His diary, written during the last year of the war, reflects the
                    daily life, concerns, and observations of an average battleship sailor risking his life escorting
                    ships in these Atlantic crossings. Connor wrote of two convoy missions he participated in, noting
                    the daily happenings on board his ships, his brief stop in the Azores with descriptions of the
                    people and scenery, and the persistent concerns of sailors, such as mail, liberty, 
                  ⋆ Jeffrey L. Patrick holds an M.A. in history from Purdue University and is a
                            resident of 
                        Springfield, Missouri
                     .
                  
                     1 Leonard P. Ayres, The War with 
                                    Germany
                                
                     —A Statistical Summary (
                                Washington
                            , 1919), 47.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., 37–48.
                  
                     3 Guy Burrell Connor was born in Cromwell, Indiana, on July 19, 1894.
                            He enlisted in the 
                                United States
                             Navy on June 15, 1917, in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, for the duration of the war. Connor gave his occupation as
                            telegrapher, with his nearest relative as Mrs. Mollie Longnecker, his mother, also in
                            Cromwell. Physically, Connor was listed as 5 feet 3/4 inches tall, weighing 120 pounds (14
                            pounds underweight), with blue eyes, black hair, and ruddy complexion. National Personnel
                            Records Center, 
                                St. Louis
                            , letter to author, September 10, 1992.
               
                     and pay. Although much has been written about the combat
                    experiences of American soldiers in 
                        France
                     during the war, the navy has received far less attention due to its less glamorous but
                    indispensable role in the conflict. Connor's diary is a brief but enlightening glimpse into
                    the life of the American sailor during the "Great War."
            What follows are the surviving entries of Connor's diary.4 Some passages
                    have been deleted, such as Connor's careful detailing of his ship's coordinates
                    while at sea. Apparently several pages are missing, so the entries begin abruptly in July, 1918, and
                    quickly move to the start of his first convoy duty in September of that year.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        July, 19185
                        
                        Got back to the 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    
                           6 at the 
                                        Brooklyn
                                     Navy Yard July 17th after having the best leave and I certainly did
                                    hate to get back. Everything is in terrible shape and things are being rushed so as
                                    to get through before time is up. Have been trying to get transferred to a landwire
                                    job but guess it won't go through. Theres too many men in the radio force
                                    on the Pennsy and I want to get where I can have more of an opportunity to do
                                    something. Left Navy Yard July 15th and landed at Base Two the next day.7 All we do is stay at this place and I wish I could get
                                    somewhere. We passed a ship on the trip down that was torpedoed shortly after.
                        
                           
                              4 The diary is currently in the editor's
                                        possession.
                           
                              5 In an effort to provide the most authentic reproduction
                                        possible, Guy Connor's account is presented here much as it originally
                                        appeared. Connor provided an immensely detailed account of his duties during
                                        World War I; his position as telegrapher allowed Connor to record precisely the
                                        ship's latitude and longitude. Ellipses have been used where Connor
                                        listed hourly latitudinal and longitudinal readings. Bracketed text with a
                                        question mark indicates places where Connor's handwriting was not fully
                                        decipherable. Connor's original spelling and punctuation have been used
                                        in this transcription; in cases where it was impossible to distinguish whether
                                        Connor had used upper or lower case, modern usage has been followed. Location
                                        and spacing of dates have been standardized and set in bold type.
                           
                              6 The battleship USS 
                                            
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            
                                         (BB-38), launched in 1915 and commissioned the following year. Department
                                        of the Navy, Naval History Division, Dictionary of American Naval
                                            Fighting Ships (9 vols., 
                                            Washington
                                        , 1959–1991), V, 250–54. This work is
                                        hereafter cited as DANFS, followed by volume and page number.
                                        Connor served on the 
                                            
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            
                                         from December, 1917, following his graduation from Naval Radio School,
                                        until his transfer to the USS 
                                            
                                                New Hampshire
                                            
                                         in September, 1918. National Personnel Records Center, 
                                            St. Louis
                                        , letter to author, September 10, 1992.
                           
                              7 Connor probably meant August 15 rather than July
                                    15.
                        
                        
                        Sept. 6th -
                        At 8:30 AM I was transferred to the 
                                        New Hampshire
                                    
                           8 with W.W. Walsh and glad to get away from the
                                        Pennsy.9 The N.H. is going into some sort of active service
                                    for they are getting a new Radio Gunner two chiefs and myself and Walsh. We left
                                    Yorktown for 
                                        New York
                                     at 4 pm Sept 6th not knowing if our final destination was Russia, 
                                        Japan
                                     or just out on convoy duty. We have stores enough for several months
                                    and coal for a month so I guess we are going somewhere. Some of the crews living
                                    compartments are 
                              USS NEW HAMPSHIRE
                                 
                                            Reproduced from Battleships of the US. Nauy (
                                                New York
                                            , 1912)
                           
                                    
                              
                                 8 The USS 
                                                
                                                    New Hampshire
                                                
                                             (BB-25) was a Connecticut class battleship launched in 1906. The ship
                                            had a relatively uneventful history before World War I, consisting of
                                            cruises to Europe and support operations for U.S. troops intervening in
                                            Central America and the Caribbean. Once war broke out, the ship served as a
                                            training vessel for a year and a half until it began the convoy mission
                                            described by Connor. The ship continued in active service until
                                            decommissioned in 1921. Her complement was 850 men. DANFS,
                                            V, 56–57. Detailed information regarding the 
                                    
                                                    New Hampshire
                                                's armament, engines, personnel, and other
                                            features can be found in Department of the Navy, Ships' Data—U.S. Naval Vessels, January 1,
                                            1916 (
                                                Washington
                                            , 1916), 14–23; Naval History Division, The Battleship in the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Navy (
                                                Washington
                                            , 19701, 44–45; and Department of the Navy, Register of the Commissioned and Warrant Officers of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Navy and Marine Corps, January 1, 1917 (
                                                Washington
                                            , 1917), 282, 344.
                              
                                 9 The 
                                    
                                                    New Hampshire
                                                's deck log for September 6, 1918, reported
                                            that Electrician 1st class G.B. Connor, USNR, and W.W. Walsh, Electrician
                                            2nd class reported on board from the USS 
                                    
                                                    Pennsylvania
                                                . Deck Log of the USS 
                                                
                                                    New Hampshire
                                                
                                            , Record Group 24, National Archives, p. 699. Hereafter referred to as
                                                Deck Log.
                           
                                     filled with coal.10 At 4 pm
                                    Sunday Sept 15 we left 
                                        New York
                                     Harbor and when outside we picked up a convoy of seven transports. The
                                    cruiser "Pueblo" destroyers "St Louis" Stribling
                                    and String-ham are also in the escort.11 After proceeding on a
                                    south by southeast course we met a detachment from Hampton Roads and now we have
                                    eleven transports, one cruiser, two destroyers and a battleship with us. The 
                                        St. Louis
                                     left shortly after delivering the Hampton Roads detachment. The
                                    transports are the = Pocahontas, Martha 
                                        Washington
                                    , Powhatan, Aeolus, 
                              Finland,
                                            Henderson
                           , Koenigen Der
                                    Nederlanden, Calamares, French SS Patria, British SS Ulna and British
                                    (Anglo-Russian) Kursk.12 Theres about twenty thousand or more
                                    men in this bunch. We have been traveling just a week now, taking a course direct
                                    toward the Azores Islands and at the present time (Sept 22nd) we are just entering
                                    the war zone. Here is a schedule of our position and time, which shows what course
                                    and speed we are making. The time is Greenwich Mean Time.
                        Sept. 21st 1918. …
                        Last night I picked up all of Washingtons arc and spark schedules but they were very
                                    weak. I have been standing my watches on the bridge until some of the new men missed
                                    a few messages and now I'm in the main radio but I'd rather be on
                                    the bridge where theres plenty of air. In the day the uniform is white pants and
                                    undershirts and at night blues and watch caps. We are routed out about four a.m. to
                                    man our general quarter stations for thats the time the subs like to attack. About
                                    two days out, the 
                                        Finland
                                     broke 
                              
                                 10 The 
                                                
                                                    New Hampshire
                                                
                                             anchored off Tompkinsville, 
                                                New York
                                            , on September 7, at 5:45 P.M. Deck Log, p.
                                            703.
                              
                                 11 The ships Connor refers to are: the USS Pueblo (originally named 
                                                
                                                    Colorado
                                                
                                            ), armored cruiser number 7, launched in 1903 and commissioned in 1905,
                                                DANFS, V, 400, II, 145; the USS 
                                                
                                                    St. Louis
                                                
                                             (cruiser No. 20), launched 1905, commissioned 1906, DANFS, VI, 245–46; the USS Stribling
                                            (destroyer No. 96), launched and commissioned in 1918, DANFS, VI, 653; and USS Stringham (destroyer No.
                                            831, also launched and commissioned in 1918, DANFS, VI,
                                            655.
                              
                                 12 Connor noted the following ships: the USS Pocahontas (SP 3044), a ship seized from 
                                                Germany
                                             at the start of the war, converted to a troop transport, and
                                            commissioned in 1917, DANFS, V, 333; the USS Martha 
                                                    Washington
                                                
                                  (SP 3019), launched in 1908, seized from the Austrians
                                            in 1917, and commissioned as a troop transport in 1918, DANFS, IV, 252; the USS Powhatan (SP 3013), built in
                                            1899, seized from the Germans, converted into a troop transport and
                                            commissioned in 1917, DANFS, V, 365; the USS Aeolus (ID 3005), launched 1899, another converted troop transport
                                            originally seized from 
                                                Germany
                                            , commissioned in 1917, DANFS, I, part A,
                                            81–82; the USS 
                                                
                                                    Finland
                                                
                                            , a troop transport launched in 1902 and commissioned in 1918, DANFS, II, 406; the USS 
                                                
                                                    Henderson
                                                
                                             (AP-1), also a transport, launched in 1916 and commissioned the
                                            following year, DANFS, III, 295; the Koeningen der Nederlanden, launched in 1911, a converted troop
                                            transport seized from the Dutch and commissioned in 1918, DANFS, III, 675; and the USS Calamares (AP 3662), a
                                            troop transport and refrigeration ship built in 1913 and commissioned in
                                            1918, DANFS, II, 10. The exact identities of the Patria, Ulnaland, and Kursk are
                                        unknown.
                           
                                     down and had to drop behind while she repaired
                                    her port and starboard engines. We called the St Louis to stay with them and we
                                    continued. They caught us about thirty hours later. A couple days later the 
                                        Henderson
                                     and Stribling dropped back to fuel the destroyer but they decided to
                                    wait until dark. After midnight one night we saw five big transports going back to
                                    the U.S.
                        A submarine stood back a couple miles one day and took a shot at the convoy in hopes
                                    of getting at least one ship. We saw the wake of the torpedo headed for the 
                                        Henderson
                                     in time to save them.13 The Stringham came
                                    alongside us three days ago and received sealed orders from the Captain. They left
                                    at once and returned last night about nine o'clock. …
                        Sept. 22nd 1918…
                        September 23rd
                        … Have the 4 to 8 am watch this morning.
                        Sept. 24–1918.
                        Have the 8–12 am watch now. …
                        Worked hard all day yesterday fixing the buzzer system and putting in a Key
                                    Reactance. They have been setting the clocks ahead so much lately that a person has
                                    to hurry to keep up with the time. When we start back it will be the other way. I
                                    have been picking up lots of stations over here among them are Madrid, Eiffel tower,
                                    Horsea, and Nanen, 
                                        Germany
                                    . Also some Italian station.14 This morning I heard
                                    Darein working San Diego (6000 arc).
                        … some Spanish station sending on spark comes in on 2400 and 6000 covering
                                    Washingtons schedule completely. We called our naval station in the Azores five
                                    times without any results. Also Broadcasted msg. to them on "J"
                                    and "M".
                        
                           
                              13 According to high ranking American naval officers, a
                                        U-Boat would be very fortunate to acquire any "kills" on
                                        transport ships by this point in the war for several reasons, including
                                        "the comparative scarcity of troop transports, the width of the
                                        ‘lane’ in which they travelled (1400 miles), the high
                                        speed which they maintained, and their constant zigzagging." Rear
                                        Admiral William Sowden Sims, The Victory at Sea (
                                            New York
                                        , 1920), 361–63.
                           
                              14 Nanen was the largest 
                                            German
                                         radio transmitting station, located outside Berlin. For a detailed
                                        account of the U.S. Navy's radio communications network and its enemy
                                        competition, see Josephus Daniels, Our Navy at War (
                                            New York
                                        , 1922), 250–55. Horsea was a British Admiralty station,
                                        exact location unknown, in operation as early as 1912. Department of the Navy,
                                            Wireless Telegraph Stations of the World, including Shore
                                            Stations, Merchant Vessels, Revenue Cutters and Vessels of the 
                                                United States
                                             Navy (
                                            Washington
                                        , 1912), 26. For an account of the training of U.S. Navy radiomen
                                        during World War I, see C.H. Claudy, "Training Radio Men," Sea
                                        Power, V (October, 1918), 257–87. For a detailed account of U.S. Navy
                                        communications equipment of the World War I period, see Captain L.S. Howeth, History of Communications-Electronics in the 
                                                United States
                                             Navy (
                                            Washington
                                        , 1963).
                        
                        
                        Sept 25th 1918
                        Heard stations in Morrocco 
                              Spain, England
                            and 
                                        Germany
                                     working last night and also heard British warships working. We are very
                                    near the coast of Europe. Last night instead of copying 
                                        Washington
                                     press, I went on arc and copied English press from Horsea and
                                    Carnarvon. They send it about twenty eight or thirty per minute and I got four pages
                                    in less than forty five minutes. We have been having abandon ship drills today and I
                                    also went aloft to fix the antenna. I heard that in the entire convoy there was only
                                    seven or eight deaths since we started. One Marine Captain on the 
                                        Henderson
                                     died.15 Most of the sickness and death is due to
                                    Spanish Influenza which is spreading some now. …
                        Reports came down from foretop just now of firing heard off port bow. Four distinct
                                    shots heard. I just sent a message to Sigourney and rec'd one from him. He
                                    used commercial procedure, I used U.S.N. procedure. Covered 600 on black receiver
                                    all during 12–4 pm watch. Heard Cape Finisterre 
                                        Spain
                                    , Alfonso XII and Reina Maria Cristina working all afternoon. About six
                                    o'clock p.m. a bunch of destroyers met us and the Pueblo and Stribling
                                    started back. We remain with the convoy until we reach longitude 15©.
                                    Theres about a dozen destroyers with us now.16
                        
                        September 26th
                        Have the Midwatch…
                        Unable to hear Washn spark this am Lat 4451 Long 1713. Azores too weak to copy. Heard
                                    Casablanca (Morrocco) sending war warnings. Copied Italian press from Roma (S.
                                    Paolo).
                        At 12 noon we left our convoy and started back for the 
                                        United States
                                     making 17 knots per hour. As soon as we started back we headed into
                                    heavy seas and the ship is sure rolling and pitching now. Was unable to hear any of
                                    Washingtons spark schedule account too far away and heavy static. …
                        Sept 27th 1918
                        Last night our port engine broke down and we are making only ten knots with starboard
                                    Engine. We would sure be a good target for a 
                              
                                 15 Probably Captain William Workman, who died on the
                                                
                                                
                                                    Henderson
                                                
                                             on September 24, 1918. Department of the Navy, Register
                                                of the Commissioned and Warrant Officers of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Navy and Marine Corps, January I, 1919 (
                                                Washington
                                            , 1919), 897.
                              
                                 16 According to American Rear Admiral William S. Sims,
                                            this would be an insufficient number of escorts for a convoy of this size.
                                            He wrote that "A convoy of four or five large troopships would be
                                            surrounded by as many as ten or a dozen destroyers." Sims, The Victory at Sea, 361.
                           
                                     torpedo now for we couldn't get out of
                                    its way. Scrubbed hammocks today.17
                        
                        Sept 28th 1918
                        Last night we sent a message to Commander US Naval Forces in Azores to be sent to 
                                        Washington
                                     by cable. Both our engines are going badly and we are headed for the
                                    Azores to either get coal or get repairs. Just sent another message to Azores.
                                    Wasn't able to copy 
                                        Washington
                                     Spark today but by tomorrow I think they will come in better.
                                    "Shorty" [Yeakll?] is handing out the dope on the Azores now.
                                    Bananas, wheat corn uncivilized and civilized. We may not get back to the states for
                                    a long time now. …
                        The "Stribling" Came to us today and is convoying us to the Azores.
                                    We only make about ten or eleven knots but should reach the Azores some time
                                    tomorrow. I got busy this afternoon scrubbed my hammock a jumper and some
                                    underclothes. Have orders from Gunner Recksiek to help Chief Weeden make a few
                                    jumper connections tomorrow. Will work at it in the Morning only for I have the
                                    twelve to four watch tomorrow. … Copied Monsanto a Portugese station and
                                    ponta Del Gada just a few minutes ago. First picked up 
                                        Washington
                                     Spark to copy at 11 pm tonight Lat 3945 Long 2504W. Must get some press
                                    for the crew now. …
                        Sept 29th 1918
                        Arrived at Ponta Del Gada this morning about ten o'clock and the Islands are
                                    the most beautiful sight I ever saw. They are like mountains, or rather they are
                                    mountains sticking up out of the ocean and far into the clouds. They are green at
                                    this time of year and the fields are laid off in even plots that seem plastered on
                                    the side of the mountain. Here and there white houses with red roofs dot the
                                    country, and the towns are built more compact than ours. The houses are similar to
                                    those of the Mexicans and the people are mostly Portugese. Ponta Del Gada has about
                                    25,000 population. I imagine I would like to live here for a while at least and if I
                                    did it would be up on the mountain where everything is green and nice. The fields
                                    are all fenced off with hedges. In some places theres also a stone wall along the
                                    roads with broken glass on top to keep out trespassers. Admiral Dunn is our naval
                                    officer here and he is also 
                              
                                 17 Connor's fear of submarine attack due to
                                            the 
                                    
                                                    New Hampshire
                                                's slow speed was not without foundation. As
                                            Rear Admiral Sims wrote, "Ships which made less than 12 knots an
                                            hour were not deemed safe" for transporting troops, as
                                            "one of the greatest protections which a ship possesses against
                                            submarine attack is unquestionably high speed." Ibid., 360.
                           
                                     the power over the people of the city.18 The "Tonahpaw"19 an old
                                    monitor flys his flag and theres three subs of the K Type here, a couple of our gun
                                    boats and a few French sub chasers. The "
                                        Marietta
                                    " and "Arethusa"20 are
                                    also here. When we moored here there was a big Portugese troop ship in which had
                                    been chased in here by subs. It sailed from Africa for 
                                        Portugal
                                     and theres all kinds of people aboard with every kind of a uniform on
                                    also a few women. We are a curiosity here for the people hire bum boats and row
                                    around the ship to look us over. Some of the natives come out and dive for money in
                                    the water. One fellow threw five pennies in and one of the divers got them all
                                    before he came up again. I cant say how long we will be here but I can't
                                    see why we should stay here for theres no place to get fixed up. All we can do is
                                    overhaul our engines. Its wonderful to know that we were about three days in the
                                    submarine zone with crippled engines and then got through without hitting a
                                    submarine. We copied one SOS today and one Allo. The "Henry
                                    George" was gunned and wanted immediate assistance.21
                        
                        September 30th 1918.
                        Still at Ponta Del Gada eating lots of pineapples. Natives come alongside with
                                    bumboats full of pineapples and other kinds of fruit to sell. Only one tenth of the
                                    crew gets liberty here each day and its only for six hours. Theres plenty to drink
                                    here. Every other store has wines and liquors to sell and things are very cheap.
                                    They all advertize their wines, private rooms and women. The women of the older
                                    families on the island wear a peculiar cape and hood or bonnet. Both are black, the
                                    cape reaching their shoe tops and the hood is narrow, long and high, standing up
                                    like the comb on a chicken. ‘Tis said that in years past the Spaniards
                                    used to come over here and pick all the pretty girls and take them back to 
                                        Spain
                                    
                                    
                              
                                 18 Rear Admiral Herbert Omar Dunn, born in 
                                                Rhode Island
                                             on May 29, 1857, and appointed to the U.S. Naval Academy on
                                            June 9, 1873. After graduation, he advanced through the ranks until promoted
                                            to rear admiral on August 6, 1915. He was placed in command of the Azores
                                            Detachment, Atlantic Fleet on November 22, 1915. Department of the Navy, Register of the Commissioned and Warrant Officers of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Navy, January 1, 1919 (
                                                Washington
                                            , 1919), 10–11.
                              
                                 19 Connor means the USS Tonopah, a
                                            double turreted monitor originally named the 
                                                
                                                    Nevada
                                                
                                            , launched in 1900 and commissioned three years later. DANFS, VII, 234, V, 51–52.
                              
                                 20 The USS 
                                                
                                                    Marietta
                                                
                                             (PG-15), a patrol gunboat launched and commissioned in 1897 which
                                            served as an escort on convoy duty. DANFS, IV,
                                            238–39. The USS Arethusa was a cargo ship built
                                            in 1893 and commissioned in 1898 which carried fuel oil from the 
                                                United States
                                             to the Azores. DANFS, I, part A,
                                            360–61.
                              
                                 21 Connor refers to the USS George G.
                                                Henry (ID-1560), a tanker built in 1917 which entered navy service
                                            the following year. It was attacked by a 
                                                German
                                             submarine on September 29, 1918. Although damaged, the ship
                                            managed to fight off the U-Boat. DANFS, III, 77.
                           
                                     so they got the idea of disguising the girls to
                                    make them appear older. Some of the older men wear these costumes also.
                        October 1st 1918.22
                        
                        Still at Ponta Delgada. We coal ship tomorrow and will no doubt leave in a day or so.
                                    All the fellows are getting money to keep for souvenirs. Would like to take some
                                    things back but theres nothing but cheap novelties to be had. The sidewalks here are
                                    very narrow and inlaid with fancy stones. When a person gets on one street here you
                                    have to go to the end for theres no cross streets or alleys. 
                                        Wish
                                     I could get some mail from home. Will be glad when I can hear from
                                    Alice again for its been almost a month since I had a letter from her.
                        Oct 2nd 1918.
                        Still at Ponta Delgada. We have four corpses from the 
                                        Chicago
                                     to take back to the U.S.23 We are coaling ship
                                    today and will leave tomorrow for the U.S. I worked all day putting jumpers on the
                                    antennas and it was some job.
                        October 3rd 1918.
                        "Field Day" today getting cleaned up after coaling. We left Ponta
                                    Delgada at four thirty making fifteen knots all the way unless our engines go back
                                    on us. Will be glad to reach home once more so I can draw some money, get a haircut,
                                    decent bath and get all squared away again.
                        October 4th 1918
                        We had to slow down during the night on account of one of our engines going on the
                                    bum but we are again making 15 knots. Had another field Day and I finished the
                                    antennas. …
                        Wrote a letter to Alice and read a book until Midnight, as though I didn't
                                    need the sleep, but I also had some wet clothes in the 7 inch passageway drying.
                                    Took them out and went up on the main deck and flopped on a couple hammocks until
                                    general quarters.
                        October 5th 1918.
                        Today is payday but instead we get captains inspection. I guess I'll have
                                    some big roll coming when we finally do get paid. We wont be 
                              
                                 22 The 
                                                
                                                    New Hampshire
                                                
                                             was honored on October 1 with a visit from the rear admiral commanding
                                            Portuguese naval forces in the area, who came aboard for twenty minutes. Deck Log, p. 757.
                              
                                 23 The USS 
                                                
                                                    Chicago
                                                
                                            , a protected cruiser and flagship of the submarine force, Atlantic,
                                            launched in 1885 and commissioned in 1889. DANFS, II, 102.
                                            The 
                                    
                                                    New Hampshire
                                                's log reported only two caskets from the 
                                                
                                                    Chicago
                                                
                                            , with two others from unnamed ships. Deck Log, p.
                                            759.
                           
                                     in for several days yet—possibly a
                                    week and I guess we get paid the very day we get in. One of our engines is on the
                                    bum again and we are making only about ten knots again. If we get back without
                                    getting torpedoed we are some lucky. … Saw a big school of whales today
                                    and they caused quite a little excitement for theres very few that ever saw any
                                    whales. We are making 16 knots now but can't tell how long the engines will
                                    hold up under that speed. Got 
                                        Washington
                                     Spark fine tonight…
                        October 6th 1918.
                        Enroute to USA from Azores making good time. Quiet Sunday Nothing of importance
                                    happened. …
                        October 7th 1918.
                        Still enroute home from Azores. Heard we would get in on next Saturday. Hope I get
                                    some liberty then for I need lots of things. …
                        Oct 8th 1918.
                        Still several days out from USA. About 970 miles to go yet. Guess we wont get in
                                    until about Saturday. I shifted a rat tail today and worked hard all day too.
                                    … Unable to hear Ponta Delgada at 10 pm…
                        Oct 9th 1918—
                        Woke up about 4 am this morning sick. Stomach all out of order and legs give out.
                                    Standing watch but don't feel very well. We are only making about 10 knots
                                    and are still about three or four days out. …
                        Oct 10th 1918.
                        We are still bound for U.S.A. and should be in inside 48 hours. The pay list was
                                    posted today and we get paid tomorrow. I just copied our first orders since we left 
                                        New York
                                    . They were from C in C and no doubt about what we will do. Also picked
                                    up Norfolk so could copy but he had none for us. …
                        Oct 11th 1918.
                        About one fifty miles to go yet and making 16 Knots speed. Will get in tomorrow
                                    morning some time.
                        Got paid today, drew $86.24 Now I want mail and
                                    liberty so I can get cleaned up. Worked hard all day today with Chief Canning.
                        
                           
                              24 Detailed information regarding Navy pay can be found in
                                        the Department of the Navy, Register of the Commissioned and
                                            Warrant Officers of the 
                                                United States
                                             Navy and Marine Corps, January I, 1919, 1011; and
                                        Archibald Owen, Jr., Navy Yearbook, Senate Document No. 418,
                                        65th Congress, 3rd Session, 1918–1919 (
                                            Washington
                                        , 1919), 871–72.
                        
                        
                        Oct 12th 1918.
                        Had general quarters at 2 am this morn acct three torpedoes fired at us. We started
                                    zig zagging and made about 20 knots getting away from them. Had the 4 to 8 am watch
                                    and sighted land at 6 am. First time we have seen U.S. in month. Arrived in Yorktown
                                    about ten thirty am. I got ready for the recreation grounds but they were delayed so
                                    I went and scrubbed clothes and took a bath. No mail today but one hundred bags
                                        tomorrow.25
                        
                        Sunday Oct 13th 1918.
                        Worked all forenoon on same [alnavs?] and on the main rattail and had the 12 to 4
                                    watch in the afternoon. Mail started coming in in the afternoon and I got thirteen
                                    letters up until time to turn in. Only got one Cromwell paper so far.
                        October 14th 1918.
                        Mail still rolls in and I have about twenty letters now and three Cromwell papers
                                    only one Journal Gazette.26 The new captain inspected this
                                    forenoon and we had inspection general quarters, fire drill, collision drill,
                                    torpedoe defence and abandon ship. In the afternoon Gunner Reiksiek, Sharp,
                                    [Meltvid?] Ammerman and I went over to the Pennsy and brought back a wireless
                                    telephone set. Saw a bunch of the boys and found that over half the ships company
                                    had had the influenza, 500 at one time. Chief Radio Electrician Snyder died with it.
                                    I stood watch with him when I first went aboard the Pennsy. Leslie Abell and [Tomy?]
                                    Conlon went to the 
                                        Wisconsin
                                    .27
                        
                        October 15th 1918
                        Coaling ship today and I wrote a couple letters in the forenoon and worked on the
                                    wireless telephone in the afternoon. Am pretty dirty right now but theres no use to
                                    clean up until after all the dust settles. Am still getting mail. Got seven letters
                                    and two papers today.
                        October 16–1918
                        Had the mid watch and we are still coaling ship. Take on about 3,500 tons and then
                                    take on stores tomorrow. We leave Friday for 
                                        New York
                                     I understand.28
                        
                        
                           
                              25 Connor failed to note that two officers of the
                                        Brazilian Navy reported aboard for instruction. Deck Log, p.
                                        785.
                           
                              26 Connor refers here to the 
                                            Fort Wayne
                                        , Indiana, Journal-Gazette.
                           
                              27 At 2:35 p.m., a general muster was held in which
                                        Captain L.H. Chandler turned over command to Captain Ridley McLean. At 5:00
                                        p.m., the log noted that one wireless telephone set was received from USS Pennsyluanra. Deck Log, p. 793.
                           
                              28 To further explain the enormity of the coaling
                                        procedure, the operation took almost twelve hours on both October 15 and 16. On
                                        the 15th alone, 900 tons of coal were taken on board. Deck
                                        Log, pp. 795–97.
                        
                        
                        October 17–1918.
                        Taking on stores and cleaning up the ship today. In the afternoon I went over to the
                                    USS Supply after 300 foot of stranded lead conductor. Took Ware, Fehrman and C D
                                    Smith. Was on the supply from four pm until 9 pm.
                        October 18–1918.
                        Still cleaning ship and reading mail.
                        October 19–1918.
                        Captains Inspection Left Yorktown at 3:15 pm bound for 
                                        New York
                                    .
                        October 20–1918
                        Have the 8 am to 12 noon watch this morning. I certainly had a bad night last night.
                                    A new regulation on the water-tight doors keeps them closed only when the watches
                                    are being changed. I had the six to eight watch and when I went up to get my hammock
                                    it was too dark to see. I couldn't find it so I slept in the tailor shop on
                                    deck, in the 4th div'n passageway, on a mess table and finally in the
                                    Interfleet. Hughes came in to get a bucket about 6 30 and dropped a big heavy angle
                                    iron on my head. I have a nice big bump and gash in my head now. We should reach 
                                        New York
                                     this afternoon sometime and I hope we get some liberty so I can write
                                    some letters and send a telegram. We dropped anchor opposite Tomp-kinsville at 6:30
                                    pm during a drizzling rain. Have been looking at the "Statue of
                                    Liberty" and wondering if I will get any liberty. So far things look very
                                    doubtful. Word from the Pueblo says they have had no liberty account influenza.
                        Oct 22st-1918.
                        Left 
                                        New York
                                     yesterday at 3 pm for sea without any liberty. Ships present are
                                    Cruiser 
                                        Charleston
                                    , destroyers Talbot and Pre-ble and transports Pocahontas, Comfort and
                                    Sobral (Brazilian).29
                        
                        Oct 23rd-1918.
                        "Field Day" today. Three transports and two destroyers with a
                                    cruiser joined us about three pm. The cruiser and one destroyer 
                              
                                 29 The ships Connor noted are the following: the USS
                                                
                                                
                                                    Charleston
                                                
                                             (C-22), a protected cruiser, launched in 1904 and commissioned the
                                            following year, DANFS, II, 82–83; the USS Talbot (Destroyer No. 114), launched and commissioned in
                                            1918, DANFS, VII, 16–17; the USS Preble (Torpedo Boat Destroyer No. 12), launched in 1901 and
                                            commissioned in 1903, DANFS, V, 368–69; the Pocahontas, referred to in note 12; and the USS Comfort (AH-3), a hospital ship built in 1906 and
                                            commissioned in 1918 which joined the Cruiser and Transport Force, Atlantic
                                            Fleet, to return American wounded from 
                                                France
                                            , DANFS, II, 152–53. The Sobral's identity is unknown.
                           
                                     turned back. We now have six transports two
                                    destroyers and a cruiser. The hospital ship "Comfort" is with us
                                    this trip. I read a lot of stuff about the U.S. intentions to send the Comfort over
                                    with a complete civilian crew but I guess they changed their minds. I never thought
                                    I would be along when she went over though. …
                        October 23rd 1918
                        The "Sobral" fell back with port engine bad but proceeded at noon.
                                    Now we are hanging back with engine trouble. The convoy is out of sight over the
                                    horizon. … We now have the Aeolus Martha 
                                        Washington
                                    , Duc D Aosta and Mayrant and Radford.30
                        
                        October 24–1918
                        Made 15 knots all night and caught up with the convoy about 8 am. The captain figures
                                    on ten days going over and ten coming back. I only hope we pull into 
                                        New York
                                     instead of Yorktown. Copied Bermuda this morning … Was on
                                    watch today from 7:45 am until 3:15 pm on account of Belmar starting to send a reply
                                    to Nanen on one of the peace notes. It was history in radio because it was the first
                                    time we have communicated with 
                                        Germany
                                     direct since war was declared.31 Now I have the
                                    eight to twelve pm watch making fifteen hours and thirty minutes on watch today. We
                                    are making fifteen knots all the time now and this will be a quick trip if we have
                                    no bad luck. …
                        Oct 25–1918.
                        Very rough today. At daybreak the convoy was about 20 miles ahead but now we have
                                    caught up with them. This trip has been enough to get on a persons nerves so far and
                                    before we get back I suppose it will be worse. I've aged about five years
                                    in the last week. …
                        Oct 26–1918.
                        Very rough seas today. While on watch this a.m. the receivers audions and everything
                                    slid off the shelf on me but I saved them from getting smashed. Waves were coming
                                    high enough to pour in 
                              
                                 30 The ships Connor refers to which have not been
                                            previously identified are the USS Mayrant (Torpedo Boat
                                            Destroyer No. 311, launched in 1910 and commissioned the following year, DANFS, IV, 283–84, and the USS Radford (Destroyer No. 1201, launched and commissioned in 1918,
                                                DANFS, VI, 12. The identity of the Duc
                                                D' Aosta is unknown.
                              
                                 31 Connor refers to the U.S. Navy radio receiving
                                            station at Belmar, 
                                                New Jersey
                                            . Daniels, Our Navy at War, 250–55.
                                            The text of the note to 
                                                Germany
                                             can be found in Arthur S. Link, ed., The Papers of
                                                Woodrow Wilson (65 vols., 
                                                Princeton
                                            , 1966–1992), LI, 417–19. Further
                                            information regarding armistice negotiations and the role of the U.S. Navy
                                            can be found in Howeth, History of Communications-Electronics
                                                in the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Navy, 295.
                           
                                     the stacks at times. The wind is blowing about
                                    90 miles per hour too. The "Radford" turned back last night with
                                    broken steering gear and not enough fuel to make Hampton Roads Va. When daybreak
                                    came we could only see three of the whole convoy. We haven't seen the 
                                        Charleston
                                     all day. The Gunner asked me about going up for chief but I told him
                                    no. It takes too much money to start in.32
                        
                        October 27th 1918.
                        Still very rough today. We have all the transports except the "Radford but
                                    the destroyers have turned back. We wont turn back until about next Friday.
                                    …
                        Oct 28th 1918. …
                        The weather is very rough yet and both the main and gun decks are flooded. We have
                                    been in this rough weather a week now. Can just hear 
                                        Washington
                                     spark set now. Tried to get Ponta Delgada but something wrong with
                                    radiation. Could not get him.
                        October 29th 1918.
                        Still trying to get Ponta Delgada this morning. We have heard that the "
                                        Kansas
                                    " was sunk and some say they met a raider but I don't
                                    know how true it is.33 We are stilling rolling from the heavy
                                    seas but the wind has gone down. We meet the destroyers Friday and turn back for the
                                    U.S. …
                        October 30th 1918
                        Last night while I was washing clothes torpedo defense sounded and we fired two shots
                                    at a submarine and put on all speed getting away from torpedoes. We were at our
                                    stations about an hour. … I was busy all day doing lots of little
                                    personal details and am not through yet. We meet the destroyers about tomorrow some
                                    time and will turn back soon after that. We will no doubt go back alone and if we
                                    have good luck it will be about the 10th of November when we get back. Hope I get
                                    leave soon as we get back so I can get to see Alice once more. I'll bet she
                                    thinks I'm gone.
                        October 31st 1918.
                        We are waiting for some call from our destroyer relief now and they should pick us up
                                    some time today. …
                        
                           
                              32 Connor not only suffered misfortune due to rough seas,
                                        but the heavy seas also "washed out temporary bulkheads and from 15 to
                                        20 tons of coal were washed overboard." Deck Log, p.
                                        817.
                           
                              33 The rumor was not true. The battleship USS 
                                            
                                                Kansas
                                            
                                         (BB-21) was launched in 1905 and commissioned in 1907. It was not attacked
                                        by 
                                            German
                                         forces during World War I. DANFS, III,
                                        597–98.
                        
                        
                        
                           PHOTOGRAPH
                                        OF GUY CONNOR'S DIARY
                           
                        
                        The destroyers met us about one thirty today and we also passed a ship which
                                    resembled a 
                                        German
                                     cruiser but I guess she was one of our own ships. Have been hearing
                                    nearly all the stations over here working.34
                        
                        November 1st 1918. …
                        Fixed the field set so it would work last night. When I got up it was very foggy and
                                    raining. Good weather for subs and we are right where they are thickest. We left the
                                    convoy at 130 pm today and headed for the U.S. against a nor'wester.
                        November 2nd 1918. …
                        Still encountering heavy seas and not making such good time. We are due in the states
                                    Nov 12th and I hope we get there. Nearly half the crew has Spanish Influenza and its
                                    a surprise to me that they 
                              
                                 34 The 
                                                
                                                    New Hampshire
                                                
                                             encountered several ships on this day. At 250 p.m. a ship was sighted
                                            heading toward the 
                                                
                                                    New Hampshire
                                                
                                            , so at 3:07 p.m. General Quarters was sounded. Only a few minutes
                                            later, however, at 3:35 p.m., the ship secured, undoubtedly realizing the
                                            mystery ship was not 
                                                German
                                            . At 4:10 p.m., two steamers were sighted, along with a third at
                                            4:20 p.m. Deck Log, p. 827.
                           
                                     haven't something else the way we are
                                    crowded up and the things we have had to contend with this trip.35
                        
                        November 3rd 1918.
                        About 40 go into the sick bay each day with the "flu" and only four
                                    or five coming out. We have 7 or 8 from the radio bunch in there now. We are
                                    proceeding very slowly now and wont be in the U.S. for about ten days.
                                        …36
                        
                        November 4th 1918.
                        Making very slow time acount short of coal.
                        November 5th 1918.
                        Still loafing along slow. The big storm is about over now. …
                        November 6th 1918.
                        We headed into a hurricane this morning and have been bucking it all day. At least a
                                    week yet before we reach the states and more if we continue to run into these
                                    storms. We have had only about one day of good weather during the entire trip.
                                        …37
                        
                        November 7th 1918.
                        Payday today—drew $26. Two men died aboard ship today. Things
                                    are in an awful state due to crowded quarters. …38
                        
                        November 8th 1918. …
                        Cape Race came in very good this morning. Was told by Mr. Math-is that I would teach
                                    theory to the radio men beginning Monday. We had general quarters and all kinds of
                                    drills today.39
                        
                        
                           
                              35 The 
                                 
                                                New Hampshire
                                            's log recorded frequent squalls from 4:00 a.m.
                                        until 8:00 a.m. To make matters worse, on November 1 the log admitted that
                                        "Influenza took on an epidemic form aboard this ship October
                                        30," so bad that general quarters was omitted on the recommendation of
                                        the medical officer, with an "overflow of cots on port side main deck
                                        aft." On November 2, 1918, 112 cases of influenza remained aboard, with
                                        137 cases occurring since September 18. Deck Log, pp.
                                        825–35.
                           
                              36 Connor was correct in his estimation of the seriousness
                                        of the influenza epidemic aboard his ship. The ship's log for November
                                        3, 1918, noted 152 influenza cases on board. Deck Log, p. 837.
                           
                              37 The ship's log recorded that from 8:00 a.m.
                                        until noon the wind increased, and the sea became moderately heavy. At 1:00 pm.
                                        the 
                                            
                                                New Hampshire
                                            
                                         encountered "a gale from the southward which lasted for an
                                        hour." Deck Log, p. 843.
                           
                              38 The ship's log stated that one man died of
                                        pneumonia at 9:35 a.m. Deck Log, p. 845.
                           
                              39 "Mr. Mathis" was Ensign A.J. Matthes,
                                        who arrived aboard the 
                                            
                                                New Hampshire
                                            
                                         on June 10, 1918. Deck Log, List of Officers Nov.
                                        1–30, 1918. Connor was correct about the drilling. From 8:00 a.m. to
                                        noon the ship held torpedo defense drill, general quarters, battle drill, etc.
                                            Deck Log, pp. 846–47.
                        
                        
                        November 9th 1918. …
                        We were turned out for torpedo defense about two am. this morning. Its getting cold
                                    and very rough also raining. Three men have died with influenza. We are making very
                                    slow time. Too slow for me.40
                        
                        November 10th 1918
                        Last night I copied the USNavy press telling of the Kaisers abdication and now
                                    everyone is talking peace and a chance to get back home. Theres where I want to be
                                    right away. The sea is smooth today and I passed a very lonesome Sunday. Sure wish I
                                    was home where I belong. …
                        November 11th 1918.
                        Hostilities ceased at 11 am today and everyone on the ship is highly elated. The band
                                    marched around the gun deck with about half the ships company behind in single file
                                    singing and playing different pieces. Everyone is talking of going home but there
                                    will be some that wont get home until the full enlistment is served. If peace is
                                    declared I will sure make every effort to get out for I only came in on account of
                                    the war. It will be at least six months before any one gets home though and it will
                                    take time to get settled.
                        November 12th 1918
                        Swinging ship all day to check up compass etc. We get in tomorrow forenoon.
                        November 13th 1918.
                        Arrived at Yorktown at 10 a.m. Now I want some mail and then liberty. A piece of
                                    press copied last night says the men in the army and navy will be let out according
                                    to occupation. If this is so I should get out acct being telegrapher. We have been
                                    underway 24 days without a stop. Everyone is glad to get back even to this dead
                                        place.41
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  40 The 
                     
                                New Hampshire
                            's log noted that torpedo defense was sounded at 1:32 a.m., but
                        the ship was secured at 2:00 a.m. The sea was recorded as choppy, with rain squalls. At 5:30
                        p.m. the ship went to Torpedo Defense stations, held searchlight drill, and secured at 556 p.m.
                            Deck Log, p. 849.
               
                  41 The 
                            
                                New Hampshire
                            
                         dropped anchor at Base #2, Yorktown, 
                            Virginia
                        , at 9:25 a.m., November 13, 1918. Deck Log, p. 863. Connor
                        continued to serve on the 
                            
                                New Hampshire
                            
                         until his discharge on July 28, 1919 at the U.S. Navy Demobilization Station in
                                
                     Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
                  . National Personnel Records Center, 
                            St. Louis
                        , letter to author, September 10, 1992.
            
            
            Connor's later life is unknown. But his contribution to the Allied war effort probably
                    afforded him great pride in the years following the conflict. He could certainly look to none other
                    than Rear Admiral William Sowden Sims, commander of the American naval forces in European waters
                    during World War I, who wrote this testimonial to the men under his command:
                        Too much praise cannot be given to the commanders of our troop convoys … as well
                            as the commanders of the cruisers and battleships that escorted them from America to the
                            western edge of the submarine zone … these commanding officers had the loyal and
                            enthusiastic support of the admirable petty officers and men whose initiative, energy and
                            devotion throughout the war enabled us to accomplish results … On the whole, the
                            safeguarding of American soldiers on the ocean was an achievement of the American navy
                            … And in performing this great feat the American navy fulfilled its ultimate duty
                            in the war. The transporting of these American troops brought the great struggle to an
                                end.42
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  42 Sims, The Victory at Sea, 366.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               You're The Top: Cole Porter in the 1930s. Cole Porter Centennial
                    Collection. Produced by Robert Kimball, Richard M. Sudhalter, and Susan Elliott. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society and Koch International Classics, 1992. Illustrations,
                    discography, bibliography. Book and compact discs or cassettes. Compact discs, $49.95;
                    cassettes, $42.95.)
            Cole Porter poses a problem for the Indiana historian. Indiana can claim credit for producing Cole
                    Porter, but the state does not really explain him. Hoagy Carmichael's music, the subject of
                    an earlier set from the Indiana Historical Society, had obvious roots in Hoosier culture. Cole
                    Porter's connections to Indiana, however, are much less obvious. Born to an upper-class
                    family in 
                        Peru
                    , he was sent off to prep school in 
                        Massachusetts
                    , to college at Yale, to law and music school at 
                        Harvard
                    , and to the study of music in 
                        Paris
                    . Porter's music evokes 
                        New York
                     more than Indiana, 
                        Paris
                     more than 
                        Peru
                    . Hoagy Carmichael testifies to the continuing diversity of American culture, to the
                    persistence of regional folk traditions in modern music. Porter stands much more for the
                    centralizing, cosmopolitan forces that shaped twentieth-century culture. Still, he is a Hoosier
                    product, and the Indiana Historical Society had the very good sense to produce this fine collection.
            
               You're the Top focuses on the Great Depression, the years of
                    Porter's greatest success. During the 1930s, he wrote such shows as Guy
                        Divorce, Anything Goes, and Leave It to Me, and such songs as
                    "Love for Sale," "Night and Day," "I've Got
                    You Under My Skin," "Begin the Beguine," "My Heart Belongs to
                    Daddy," and, of course, "You're the Top." Those songs are all
                    here, along with other, less known efforts, such as "When Love Comes Your Way" and
                    "When Love Beckoned (on 52nd Street)." The producers of this set have made a
                    generally fine, sensible selection of songs. And they have turned to a wide range of performers,
                    from the expected—Ella Fitzgerald, Ethel Merman, Mary Martin, Artie Shaw, and Bobby
                    Short—to the obscure—Hubbell Pierce and Casper Rear-don. One of the pleasures
                    of this collection is the chance to hear the same song interpreted quite differently by different
                    artists—for instance, "I've Got You under My Skin" sung by Lee
                    Wiley and then Cesare Siepi.
            One can always quarrel with the selections in a collection like this one. It would have been
                    interesting to hear more of the performances Porter himself recorded of songs from The
                        Cocotte. The jazz selections could have been a bit more daring: in particular, it would
                    been interesting to hear how more modern musicians such as Miles Davis and Jackie McLean have
                    reworked "Love for Sale" 
                    
                  COLE PORTER
                            AT EIGHTEEN Copy - 
                                Miami County
                             Museum, 
                                Peru
                            , Indiana
               
                     and other Porter songs. The most unfortunate omission was
                    forced on the producers: they could not obtain permission to include any of Frank Sinatra's
                    absolutely essential interpretations of Porter lyrics.
            Still, this is an absolutely first-rate production. The music has been well transferred to compact
                    disc; much of the work was apparently done by John R.T. Davies, the unsurpassed master of transfers
                    from 78 rpm records. The accompanying booklet is handsome, with plenty of illustrations and an
                    intelligent, informative essay by Porter expert, Robert Kimball. Whatever Cole Porter's
                    roots in Indiana, this collection is a splendid chance to sample the genius of a great American
                    songwriter.
            MICHAEL MCGERR is a member of the History Department at
                    Indiana University 
                        Bloomington
                    . He is currently writing a history of America from the turn of the twentieth century to
                    the Great Depression for The 
                            Oxford
                         History of the 
                            United States
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               The Main Stem: The History & Architecture of North 
                            Meridian
                         Street. By David J. Bodenhamer, Lamont Hulse, and Elizabeth B. Monroe. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 1992. Pp. [ix], 149. Illustrations, catalog
                    of buildings, index. $37.95.)
            David J. Bodenhamer, Lamont Hulse, and Elizabeth B. Monroe have chronicled the development of 
                        Indianapolis
                    's most historic 
                  MERIDIAN STREET
                            IN
                            THE NINETEENTH CENTURY Courtesy
                            Bass Photo Company Collection; Indiana Historical Society Library.
               
                     and prestigious residential street. The Main
                    Stem includes three chapters entitled "The Street and the City,"
                    "The Street and its Residents," and "The Street and the Houses,"
                    as well as a section devoted to handsome photographs taken in recent years by Marsh Davis, and
                    finally a catalog of the major North 
                        Meridian
                     Street houses, providing the address, the architect's name (if known) and the
                    owners over the years. The catalog is the direct result of researchers' work in preparation
                    for listing the North 
                        Meridian
                     Street Historic District with the National Register of Historic Places in 1986.
            The authors provide a concise social mapping of this period of 
                        Indianapolis
                     history. They demonstrate that the changes on the domestic front resulting from World
                    War I, the Depression, and World War II are reflected in the planning of houses and in the stylistic
                    aspirations of house owners. For example, the early houses include servants' quarters and
                    delineate the formal and informal rooms of the house, while the later homes have more open plans and
                    reflect the efficiency popularized by the time-motion studies of the period.
            
               The Main Stem is a good case study of an early twentieth-century American
                    residential district built by developers. North 
                        Meridian
                     Street was neither planned as tract housing, nor were the houses designed for specific
                    owners. Rather, planning was the result of developers' speculation. The houses were built
                    in response to what was considered acceptable or "collective" taste in an
                    upper-middle-class housing market. In the houses along North 
                        Meridian
                     Street, as the authors point out, "Developers rarely embrace eccentric
                    designs." The developers "marketed" the houses and their images to a
                    narrow buyer group that had a "collective" taste.
            The development of North 
                        Meridian
                     Street provides the subject for an essay in upper-middle-class American culture during
                    the first half of this century. Along North 
                        Meridian
                     Street one can see fine examples of the "modern" styles at the turn
                    of the century: the American Foursquare and 
                        Prairie
                     houses; the Revivalist styles of the 1920s and 1930s, specifically the Tudor Revival,
                    the French Farmhouse and Chateau, and the Renaissance Revival; and, finally, during the post-World
                    War II period a return to the modern style once again, this time as the informal ranch style. One
                    style, the authors point out, the Colonial Revival, constantly held its ground throughout the
                    development of North 
                        Meridian
                     Street.
            It is in the Revivalist styles that one sees nostalgia, rather than a quest for innovation or,
                    experimentation, guiding the pre-and post-Depression eras. This is partially because of the group of
                    buyers who typically came from an established professional background and for whom the more
                    traditional styles were more appealing. It is also attributable to the popularity of Revivalist 
                    
                  ENTRANCE HALL
                            TO
                            THE BAKER RESIDENCE BUILT
                            IN 1924 Courtesy Bass Photo Company Collection; Indiana Historical
                            Society Library.
                styles among such princes of capital as Andrew Carnegie, Henry Morgan, Cornelius
                    Vanderbilt, and others whose homes set the standard for such styles. The authors point out that the
                    Revivalist styles were touted as most appropriate by such trend-setting publications as Country Life, House and Garden, and House Beautiful.
            Booth Tarkington, himself a resident of North 
                        Meridian
                     Street, observed that "there was much artifice to the new houses."
                    The styles varied from house to house with an eclectic exuberance, while the floor plans remained
                    almost identical in their adherence to a central hall plan with a living room and sun porch to the
                    south and dining room and kitchen to the north.
            
               The Main Stem provides readers with a concise overview of the North 
                        Meridian
                     historic district. Photographs abundantly fill its pages, though there could be better
                    coordination at times between the photographs and the text. Nonetheless, The Main
                    Stem is a substantial contribution to both Indiana history and American architectural history.
            CHRISTINE MATHEU is a practicing architect with The Odle,
                    McGuire & Shook Corporation in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
            
               Looking at History: Indiana's Hoosier National Forest Region, 1600 to
                    1950. By Ellen Sieber and Cheryl Ann Munson. ([
                        Washington
                    , D.C.]: 
                        United States
                     Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, 1992. Pp. 131. Illustrations, maps, figures,
                    tables, notes. Paperbound. Free upon request from 
                        Wayne
                    -Hoosier National Forest, 811 Constitution Ave., 
                        Bedford
                    , IN 47421.)
            
               Looking at History is a broad, short, social history of 
                        Brown
                    , Crawford, Dubois, 
                        Jackson
                    , Lawrence, Martin, 
                  Monroe, Orange
               , and Perry counties—the nine counties
                    that contain the Hoosier National Forest. It is a companion volume to Looking at
                        Prehistory, a book covering the same area of Indiana from 12,000 B.C. until roughly 1600
                    A.D. The book is designed both to inform the public about the past and to stimulate interest in
                    historic preservation.
            The work is divided into three sections corresponding to three historical periods and a short
                    concluding section on how the book's readers can become involved in identifying and
                    preserving historical sites and artifacts. After a brief summary of the geography, flora, and fauna
                    of the region, the authors describe the location and material culture of the area's Indian
                    tribes and their interactions with whites during 1600–1800, the period before white
                    settlement took place.
            The second period from 1800 to 1850 was the region's pioneer era. The authors describe
                    settlement patterns, building designs and other material culture items, the economy, and everyday
                    life. The focus of this section is on the upland southern whites who predominated among the early
                    settlers, but some attention is also given to the significant 
                        German
                     immigrant and black southern migrant populations.
            The third section of the book covers the period from 1850 to 1950. The authors attempt to chronicle
                    the changes that took place in the region as it was brought into ever more contact with the outside
                    world. The changes they describe came very slowly: agriculture remained largely unmechanized until
                    the 1940s; few industries besides the limestone quarries and Crane Naval Surface Warfare Center
                    located in the area; and the region's towns remained small. The authors tend to meander a
                    bit in this section rather than rigorously detailing how the various patterns described in the
                    earlier period changed. For example, they fail to describe the region's population during
                    the twentieth century and how it did or did not change with the advent of the quarries and other
                    alterations in the economy.
            Although the authors want their work to be a broad social history, it is obvious that their
                    overriding interest is in material culture and historic preservation. The authors seem quite
                    knowledgeable  of and at home with books and articles on
                    material culture. They appear much less conversant with many standard secondary and written primary
                    historical sources.
            The book is useful as a primer on the material culture of southern Indiana, but not as a short social
                    history of the region.
            THOMAS E. RODGERS, adjunct professor of history,
                    University of Southern Indiana, is the co-author, with Robert L. Reid, of A Good
                        Neighbor: The First Fifty Years at Crane, 1941–1991, a history of the Naval
                    Surface Warfare Center Division, in Martin County, Indiana.
         
         
            
               The Spirit of 1848: 
                            German
                         Immigrants, Labor Conflict, and the Coming of the Civil War. By Bruce Levine. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1992. Pp. xiv, 378. Tables, figure, notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. $34.95.)
            In this attractive volume Bruce Levine presents a well-researched and highly detailed study of the 
                        German
                    -American community during the sectional crisis which ended in the American Civil War. 
                        German
                     immigrants represented a sizeable proportion of the large-scale migration entering the 
                        United States
                     in the late 1840s into the critical decade of the 1850s. Historians have long
                    contemplated what role this impressive immigrant population played in the economic and political
                    conflict of the antebellum era, especially in the rise of Republican power. Levine's work
                    contributes tantalizing new details about this and other long-debated questions.
            After a careful overview of the social and economic factors spurring immigration from 
                        Germany
                    , Levine reconstructs the place 
                        German
                     immigrants took in American society. Although much previous scholarship has focused on
                    the liberal intellectuals of the Forty-Eighter generation, Levine's attention is devoted
                    most of all to those of more plebian origins, whose politics could be somewhat more radical. He
                    devotes special emphasis to the 
                        German
                     craft workers, particularly their labor concerns and organizations. As his subtitle
                    indicates, the author develops how the often clashing economic interests among laborers, craftsmen,
                    and proprietors affected the political conflict of the antebellum era.
            Levine's careful research provides essential new information about the critical role 
                        German
                    -Americans played in the political crisis of the 1850s. Although his methodology does
                    not necessarily produce more specific knowledge about 
                        German
                    -American voting patterns, his analysis does verify his thesis that the 
                        German
                     community was divided on the eve of the Civil War. Beyond the traditional conflict
                    between the immigrants of the 1830s (the Dreissiger immigration) and the
                    Forty-Eighter generation, Levine demonstrates quite effectively how the opposing viewpoints of the
                    working  class (skilled or otherwise) and that of the immigrant
                    "elite" could create dissensions within 
                        German
                    -American ranks. Despite the nativist tinge of the new Republican party, most
                    rank-and-file 
                        German
                    -American voters (but not always those of higher status) eventually rallied to the
                    party's antislavery call.
            Besides developing the key differences among certain types of 
                        German
                     immigrants, Levine's main contribution is to sharpen current knowledge of the
                    social and political conflicts of the 1850s. For example, while detailing the 
                        German
                     reaction to the 
                        Kansas
                    -Nebraska Act (especially in the midwestern states) he also notes that the labor
                    organizations had been weakened at the very moment that the Kansas crisis (along with other issues)
                    provoked new political alignments. While his prime focus is on the antebellum era, Levine does carry
                    the story through the war years. In the end he leaves the careful reader with a fuller understanding
                    of the complex position those of 
                        German
                     heritage occupied in the critical decades of the nineteenth century.
            VERNON L. VOLPE is associate professor of history at the
                    University of Nebraska at Kearney. He is the author of Forlorn Hope of Freedom: The
                        Liberty Party in the Old Northwest, 1838–1848 (1990). He is currently completing
                    a study of John C. Frémont and the Civil War era.
         
         
            
               The Union Army, 1861–1865: Organization and Operations. Volume II, The
                        Western Theater. By Frank J. Welcher. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1993. Pp. viii, 989. Indexes. $75.00.)
            Four years ago Frank J. Welcher and Indiana University Press produced volume one of The
                        Union Army, 1861–1865: Organization and Operations (reviewed in these pages in
                    September, 1990), a mammoth work covering the Eastern Theater of the Civil War. Now they offer its
                    companion volume. Words like "massive," "comprehensive,"
                    "meticulous," and "detailed" filled reviews in scholarly
                    journals for that first volume, and they remain appropriate for the second volume.
            Welcher begins with the military divisions of the army (seven geographical commands) and then
                    describes, in alphabetical order, the thirty-three departments of the army. Each department
                    description includes a brief account of its initial organization and subsequent reorganizations and
                    its commanders, all the districts into which each department was divided, the troops and operations
                    within the department and the major posts. Indiana was part of the department of the Ohio in May,
                    1861, and remained in that department throughout its subsequent reorganizations. Following the
                    departments are the thirty-four field armies, again in alphabetical order. Each field army has an
                    organizational description  (divisions, brigades, artillery, and
                    cavalry units and their commanders) followed by a chronological summary of operations and subsequent
                    unit reassignments.
            Welcher then turns his attention to army corps which, like the field armies, are provided with a
                    description of their creation, organization, units and commanders, and a summary of operations. A
                    subsequent section covers miscellaneous organizations, which range from "Bank's
                    Expedition to the Gulf of 
                        Mexico
                    " to Sherman's "Yazoo River Expedition." Here one
                    also finds accounts of 
                        United States
                     colored troops and state regiments of colored troops. Many of the organizations
                    described in this section, however briefly and colorlessly, remind readers of the lesser-known but
                    often dramatic stories of the Civil War, such as the 1862 march of the Column From California and
                    Sibley's Sioux Expedition of 1863.
            The last and longest section of The Western Theater covers battles and campaigns.
                    Critics of volume I complained of the repetition of content from one section to another, and that
                    same criticism can apply to the second volume. Welcher faced fiendishly difficult problems of
                    organization, however, and such repetition is largely inevitable. There are three indexes, and to
                    the great relief of users of volume I, these indexes cover both volumes. Now complete, The Union Army, 1861–1865: Organization and Operations belongs in every library
                    and on the shelves of serious students of the Civil War.
            WILLIAM L. BURTON is professor of history, Western
                    Illinois University, Macomb. His most recent publication is "Illinois in the Civil
                    War," Illinois History (November, 19931, and his most recent book is Melting Pot Soldiers: The Union's Ethnic Regiments (1988).
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Lincoln
                        , the War President: The 
                            Gettysburg
                         Lectures. Edited by Gabor S. Boritt. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1992. Pp. xxix, 242. Illustrations, notes. $23.00.)
            Each year on November 19, the anniversary of the 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address, 
                        Gettysburg
                     College sponsors the Robert Fortenbaugh Lecture Series. Gabor S. Boritt, Fluhrer
                    Professor of Civil War Studies at the college, selected six of the recent papers that reflect on
                    Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     as a war leader, added one of his essays, and presents them here for the first time in
                    book form. Robert V. Bruce's lecture describes premonitions of the Civil War and determines
                    that 
                        Lincoln
                     rejected the predictions until war was imminent. James M. McPherson discusses 
                        Lincoln
                    's creation of the national strategy of total war, with emancipation included
                    as a war aim. Kenneth M. Stampp tells how emancipation gave divine purpose to the war. David Brion
                    Davis compares emancipation  throughout the world and sets forth
                    that 
                        Lincoln
                    's program was similar to others in attempting to ensure social continuity.
            Carl Degler finds that 
                        Lincoln
                    , like Otto von Bismarck of 
                        Germany
                    , created a unified nation out of separate states. Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., compares 
                        Lincoln
                     with F#2 D. Roosevelt—both were accused of acting as dictators for violating
                    the Constitution to make war and protect internal security, but both were careful to avoid setting
                    dangerous precedents.
            Boritt analyzes 
                        Lincoln
                    's abhorrence of violence that dated from his youth in Indiana. Agonizing over
                    his role as commander, in a time of low morale in July, 1864, 
                        Lincoln
                     appeared on the parapet at Fort Stevens and exposed himself to enemy fire. Boritt
                    interprets that as the bullets splattered, 
                        Lincoln
                     stared, not at the Confederates but at God. Silently, he prayed: "If I am
                    wrong, God, strike me down" (p. 208). The book provides interesting perspectives on 
                        Lincoln
                     as a national strategist, but on 
                        Lincoln
                     as military strategist, readers should still turn to the standard studies, such as T.
                    Harry Williams, 
                  
                            Lincoln
                         and His Generals (1952).
            JAMES A. RAMAGE is professor of history at Northern
                    Kentucky University, 
                        Highland
                     Heights, and author of Rebel Raider: The Life of General John Hunt
                    Morgan (1986). He is currently writing a biography of John Singleton Mosby.
         
         
            
               The Pennsylvania Barn: Its Origin, Evolution, and Distribution in North America.
                    By Robert F. Ensminger. (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins University Press, 1992. Pp. xvii, 238. Illustrations, notes, maps,
                    diagrams, appendixes, selected bibliography, index. $39.95.)
            As settlers emigrated from Europe to the 
                        United States
                     and subsequently moved westward, they took with them their quite varied material
                    culture traits. One such important cultural trait is reflected in the form of the barn, the hub of a
                    farmer's life. Robert F. Ensminger's The Pennsylvania Barn is a
                    scholarly study of the origin, development, and diffusion of a specific barn form. The Pennsylvania
                    barn, one of the most important agricultural structures on the landscape, is a two-level structure
                    with a characteristic overhang or forebay and a bank, hill, or ramp providing entrance to the upper
                    level.
            Ensminger examines the Pennsylvania barn's European antecedents with special emphasis on a
                    Swiss prototype. He provides very convincing evidence for the development of a Swiss fore-bay bank
                    barn, which was carried to southeastern Pennsylvania whence it diffused across the 
                        United States
                     and into southern 
                        Canada
                    . The text, supplemented with maps, photographs, and drawings, and the glossary of barn
                    terms, provide ease in understanding the detailed study.
            
            Of interest to barn enthusiasts is Ensminger's new and more comprehensive classification
                    system of Pennsylvania bank barns. He based the classification on a detailed examination of the
                    "differences in the specifications of the forebay and the process of its integration into
                    the barn frame" (p. 55). His classification scheme accommodates Pennsylvania barns both
                    within and outside the Pennsylvania core area and is intended to help explain the evolution of this
                    special barn form. Ensminger provides a thirty-four-step diagram of the conjectured evolution of the
                    Pennsylvania barn and related barns in America, which he concludes was completed by 1900.
            Ensminger notes that "migration patterns correlate closely with the distribution of
                    Pennsylvania barns" (p. 151). As the concept of the Pennsylvania barn spread across the
                    country from the Pennsylvania core, regions of Pennsylvania barn intensity formed. Perhaps the
                    single weakness of this generally well-researched study was the author's limited fieldwork
                    in several of these Pennsylvania barn regions, especially Indiana. The author singles out
                    Pennsylvania barns in 
                  Ohio, Illinois, Wisconsin, Missouri, Iowa, Nebraska, Texas
               , the Far West, and 
                        Ontario
                    . The only Indiana connection was in Ensminger's "hypothesis that
                    there is a correlation between Amish settlement and the presence of Pennsylvania barns" (p.
                    163). Not only are Pennsylvania barns found in areas of Indiana with no Amish communities, but Amish
                    communities are found with no Pennsylvania barns.
            Ensminger is to be commended for his interest, enthusiasm, and scholarship in his comprehensive study
                    of the Pennsylvania barn. The Pennsylvania Barn is essential reading for anyone
                    interested in material culture and American vernacular barn architecture.
            SUSANNE S. RIDLEN teaches folklore and American studies
                    courses at Indiana University 
                        Kokomo
                    . Her special interest is in material culture, especially barns and
                gravestones.
         
         
            A History of Blacks In 
                            Kentucky
                        : Volume 1, From Slavery to Segregation,
                    1760–1891. By Marion B. Lucas. (
                        Frankfort
                    : Kentucky Historical Society, 1992. Pp. xxii, 430. Tables, illustrations, graphs,
                    notes, bibliography, index. $29.95.)
            
               A History of Blacks in 
                            Kentucky
                        : Volume 2, In Pursuit of Equality, 1890–1980. By
                    George C. Wright. (
                        Frankfort
                    : Kentucky Historical Society, 1992. Pp. 277. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            Marion B. Lucas has written an outstanding book on black Kentuckians from slavery through the Civil
                    War to the late nineteenth century. His thesis is that the desire and search for liberty  and human rights has been an unending process and struggle. Black
                    Kentuckians never faltered despite violent opposition to their liberty and progress.
            Lucas engages the reader on subjects such as blacks' labor, living conditions, recreation,
                    health, religion, and education. His descriptions of slave families, slave mobility, the slave
                    trade, slave hiring, and resistance to slavery help Lucas to paint a vivid picture of the tragedy
                    and triumphs of slaves and free blacks under the peculiar institution.
            His story of the Civil War and Reconstruction era is especially noteworthy. Black Kentuckians
                    comprised a significant percentage of the Union forces. They struggled for freedom and citizenship
                    with dignity and fortitude. The obstacles were many, the heartbreaks frequent. Progress was often
                    slow, bitter, and painful in the face of determined opposition by hateful whites holding onto old
                    patterns of race relations. Lucas reveals this story with an impressive eye for detail and fine
                    story telling that includes significant pieces of local Kentucky history and that draws on extensive
                    research.
            George C. Wright's volume, In Pursuit of Equality, 1890–1980,
                    is an excellent continuation of the history of blacks in Kentucky from the late nineteenth century
                    to 1980. Wright's research is superb, and he possesses an engaging writing style. His
                    thesis is that blacks pursued liberty in America under the Constitution. Blacks faced an emerging
                    system of racial segregation and discrimination, which denied them constitutional rights. They
                    suffered social and legal oppression and devastating poverty because of limited opportunities under
                    a racial caste system. Race relations were deplorable as whites in many of 
                        Kentucky
                    's small rural communities and towns engaged in violence and legal lynchings.
                    State terrorism was common. Many blacks were forced to flee their communities and the state.
            Blacks who remained in Kentucky engaged in heroic efforts at self-improvement through education,
                    religious institutions, moral character, strong families, and property ownership. Some were able to
                    become successful entrepreneurs despite the many odds against them. Most difficult were the attempts
                    to establish public schools. Many whites resisted and denied public funds. Blacks eventually won
                    limited funding, but resources and physical plants of schools were invariably inadequate. Segregated
                    schools and poor education remained serious problems until the 1960s.
            The 1950s and 1960s were the key times of change in Kentucky as the modern Civil Rights movement
                    gained momentum. In Wright's view the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
                    People (NAACP) in Kentucky was at the center of the Civil Rights movement. Black Civil Rights
                    leadership developed from its ranks. The NAACP fought the essential court cases to desegregate  education, housing, and public accommodations. Other Civil
                    Rights groups played important roles, too. The Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr., came to Kentucky in
                    the 1960s to assist in organizing and leading protest marches. 
                        Kentucky
                    's blacks and the NAACP, however, remained the core group in the fight for
                    civil liberties and the destruction of white authoritarianism.
            Wright notes that from the 1950s to 1980 tremendous positive changes occurred that improved the lives
                    of blacks. Some old pattern still lingered, however, suggesting that the democratic struggle along
                    the color line in Kentucky and the 
                        United States
                     is not over.
            Lucas and Wright have written excellent accounts of the black experience in 
                        Kentucky
                    . The two volumes look at the broad sweep of human experience and will be a model for
                    many years. Lucas and Wright show clearly that a democratic society can be racist, oppressive, and
                    brutal unless its people practice the democratic creed toward all people.
            BRUCE M. TYLER is professor of history, University of 
                        Louisville
                    . He is the author of From Harlem to Hollywood: The Struggle for Racial and
                        Cultural Democracy, 1920–1943 (1992).
         
         
            
               The Fine Hardwood Veneer Industry in the 
                            United States
                        , 1838–1990. By John C. Callahan. (Lake Ann, Mich.: National
                    Woodlands Publishing Company, 1990. Pp. xvi, 368. Figures, illustrations, charts, tables,
                    bibliography, appendixes, indexes. $32.00, plus $3.00 shipping and handling.)
            John C. Callahan's study of the American fine hardwood veneer industry covers several
                    subjects. Callahan, formerly a forestry economics and policy professor at Purdue University, writes
                    about the entrepreneurs, business administrators, individual corporations, and trade associations
                    that developed this industry. Callahan explains how the fine hardwood veneer industry has been a
                    global enterprise from the nineteenth century and how changes in manufacturing technology led to the
                    rise and fall of American firms associated with the business.
            Callahan adopts a regional focus to the organization of his book. First, he discusses the importance
                    of hardwood firms in the northeast. Then, he moves to a discussion of the so-called
                    "coastal mahogany mills" located from Pennsylvania to 
                        Louisiana
                    . Next, Callahan devotes almost four chapters of the book to midwestern firms, with
                    extensive discussion given to major Indiana companies. He finishes with a discussion of the trade
                    association activities of the member companies.
            Callahan's profiles of Indiana hardwood entrepreneurs constitute the most important sections
                    of the book. He discusses the  careers of such pioneers as Harry
                    Daugherty (the Hoosier Veneer Company), John Nye Roberts (Roberts and Strack Veneer Company), and
                    Charles W. Talge and George O. Worland (
                        Evansville
                     Veneer and Lumber Company). He shows how such individuals were not only successful
                    managers of their own firms (although Daugherty almost lost his business during the Great
                    Depression) but were also knowledgeable technologists. Several members of the Hoosier hardwood
                    industry's leadership became influential in the affairs of the industry's trade
                    associations, too.
            To his credit, Callahan has done a tremendous amount of research for the book. He has examined
                    company records, published materials from the industry press, and conducted over seventy interviews
                    with prominent individuals in the industry. He has also examined government publications which
                    relate to the regulation of the industry. He presents virtually an encyclopedic account of the fine
                    hardwood veneer industry. The reviewer should add a note of caution, however. Callahan's
                    book is not for the general reader, including the Hoosier general reader. People who are familiar
                    with the American fine hardwood veneer industry will find a great deal of useful information in the
                    book. Other readers, however, will find themselves overwhelmed with the amount of specialized
                    information that Callahan presents. Still, this book adds a great deal to the knowledge of an
                    industry in which Hoosier business leaders have played a prominent role.
            BRUCE GEELHOED is director of the Center for 
                        Middletown
                     Studies, Ball State University, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana.
         
         
            
               Crossings: The Great Transatlantic Migrations, 1870–1914. By Walter
                    Nugent. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1992. Pp. xvi, 234. Maps, tables, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $29.95.)
            "Descriptive synthesis" is probably the best term to describe Walter
                    Nugent's new book on the Great Transatlantic Migrations. The primary purpose of the book is
                    to go outside and beyond the traditional national treatments of immigration and emigration and
                    "pull together in one place the main contours of population change in the Atlantic region
                    during the 1870–1914 period" (p. 3). The book focuses on the Atlantic World,
                    viewing the Atlantic as a great highway that in this period bound together, as never before, the
                    distant shores of Europe and the Americas through the unprecedented migrations of tens of millions
                    of people. Nugent takes a comparative look at the experiences of more than a dozen countries that
                    were major participants as donors or recipients (sometimes both) of transatlantic migrants. He asks
                    two important questions: whether the American (U.S.) experience was exceptional  and whether some kind of explanatory theory of modernization can be
                    applied to this period of exceptional international migration. The answer to both questions is
                    negative. Nugent finds little in the American experience that differs from that of other Atlantic
                    World countries, aside from an abundance of available agricultural land, and he finds various
                    notions of modernization too vague to be helpful in synthesizing the migration experience.
            
               Crossings is organized into three sections. The first describes the Atlantic World
                    of the late nineteenth century, with special emphasis on its overall demographic and migrational
                    features. The second treats emigration in each of the major donor countries and regions of
                    Europe—Britain (
                        England
                    -Wales and 
                        Scotland
                    ), 
                        Ireland
                    , Scandinavia, the 
                        German
                     Empire, 
                        Austria
                    -
                        Hungary
                     and Russia, 
                        Italy
                    , and Iberia. The third examines the four major receiving
                            nations—
                  Argentina, Brazil, Canada
               , and the 
                        United States
                    . Each of the national treatments takes the form of an essay that sums up facts from the
                    best and most recent migration studies, provides basic statistical data, and notes differences and
                    similarities with other national experiences.
            Nugent's book is valuable for its grand perspective. While the notion that the distinction
                    between emigration and immigration is artificial and that the migration experience is best seen as
                    international and transatlantic has been around for some time, few have tried to write migration
                    history on this scale. At the same time, its ambitiousness can cause it to be less than satisfying.
                    It is a grand synthesis, and as such it can pay only limited attention to detail. Thus the regional
                    specialist, like this reviewer, may appreciate the larger effort but find the short essay (i.e., all of Britain in five pages, all of Scandinavia in eight pages) on his or
                    her particular nation or region of interest to be wanting. An interesting feature is the large
                    number of original maps by the historical geographer, 
                        Norman
                     Pounds, many of which are useful.
            ROBERT c. OSTERGRAN is professor of geography at the
                    University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    -
                        Madison
                    . He is the author of A Community Transplanted: The Trans-Atlantic
                        Experience of a Swedish Settlement in the Upper Middle West, 1835–1915
                (1988).
         
         
            
               Homes in the Heartland: Balloon Frame Farmhouses of the Upper Midwest,
                        1850–1920. By Fred W. Peterson. (Lawrence: University Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1992. Pp. xi, 296. Illustrations, figures, table, notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $35.00.)
            It would be difficult to overestimate the importance of balloon frame construction, which
                    revolutionized building technology and facilitated settlement of the Midwest from the 1850s on. For
                    a period of seventy years, it was practically the only way to construct farmhouses in the region.
                    Subject to the availability of  milled lumber of standard
                    dimensions, mass-produced nails, and a modular formula for putting the pieces together, a carpenter
                    with one helper could construct a simple 14-by-20-foot, one-story house in one week. By comparison,
                    the traditional mortise-and-tenon method required a skilled housewright and crew of at least four or
                    five men to raise a box frame of heavy timbers. Not only did the balloon frame save construction
                    time, it also negated the time-consuming drying and seasoning of large posts and beams; furthermore,
                    the same size house could be built at a savings of about 40 percent.
            Generally accepted to have been "invented" in 
                        Chicago
                     in the early 1830s, influence of the balloon frame in Indiana could be expected to
                    correlate to the state's proximity to the source. Although Indiana is not included in the
                    five states of the Upper Midwest surveyed in this book, a casual glance at the photos and plans will
                    reveal their close relationship to Indiana's agrarian architecture. The only Hoosier cited
                    in the book is pioneer farmer and entrepreneur Solon Robinson, who was the author of the earliest
                    published explanation of the balloon frame in the American Agriculturalist of
                    1846. His plan for "A Cheap Farm House" indicates that he apparently had little
                    practical experience in the matter.
            It is obvious that Peterson's work is based on comprehensive fieldwork and primary research
                    in the diaries and letters of settlers. Firsthand accounts of the construction of a log or sod
                    house—subsistence shelters that gave way to the balloon frame—are fascinating,
                    especially when supplemented by rare photos, such as of the interior of a sod house. Early on,
                    however, the author sets up a false dichotomy between architectural history and the study of
                    vernacular architecture. He develops his own artificial system of ten farmhouse types, ignoring the
                    fact that the houses being built in Midwestern towns and villages were not appreciably different
                    from the farmhouses. The typology soon becomes tedious, distracting from all the good material
                    presented.
            The first chapter on the balloon frame's structural system, which gives a good explanation
                    of frame parts with all their dimensions, is the best part of the book. The four-foot standard
                    length of lath determined the basic module upon which the entire structure is based; this helps to
                    explain many proportional conventions that survive to the present day, such as our standard
                    thirty-inch-wide doors.
            Architectural historian MARY ELLEN GADSKI is the editor of a new guidebook, 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Architecture: Transformations Since 1975 (1993).
         
         
         
            
               Decision in the West: The 
                            Atlanta
                         Campaign of 1864. By Albert Castel. (Lawrence: University Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1992. Pp. xvi, 665. Maps, illustrations, appendixes, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            
               Pea Ridge: Civil War Campaign in the West. By William L. Shea and Earl J. Hess. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1992. Pp. xiii, 417. Maps, illustrations, appendixes, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $29.95.)
            
               This Terrible Sound: The Battle of 
                            Chickamauga
                        
               . By Peter Cozzens. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1992. Pp. xii, 675. Maps, illustrations, appendix,
                    notes, bibliography, index. $39.95.)
            These three new tactical studies of major Civil War campaigns are representative of the burgeoning
                    rush of Civil War literature. Civil War readers are reasonably apprehensive about this rush. There
                    are already hints that a dominating economic motive may be driving this process and may cause a
                    decline in the quality of the genre. Fortunately, the three books under review are not involved in
                    that indictment.
            The distinguished Albert Castel's 
                        Atlanta
                     book is nothing short of excellent. Begun in May, 1864, under Sherman's
                    command, the campaign was one of the several prongs of newly-appointed General-in-Chief
                    Grant's effort to subdue the Confederacy. The author has a sound grasp of the importance of
                    the war in the West and the logistical, military, political, and morale significance of the 
                        Atlanta
                     campaign. Conventional accounts have suggested that the Federal progress from Dalton to 
                        Atlanta
                     was essentially a matter of maneuver. The book reminds the reader that in fact there
                    was much fighting along the way, at Pickett's Mill and 
                        Dallas
                     and other previously ignored battlefields. Among several persuasive revisionist themes,
                    the most striking concerns Sherman, whom the author faults for candor, strategic capacity, and
                    tactics and compares unfavorably to General George H. Thomas. Castel notes that Sherman unilaterally
                    modified Grant's intent for the campaign. Grant wanted Sherman to destroy the Army of 
                        Tennessee
                    . Sherman concentrated instead on the more modest objective of capturing 
                        Atlanta
                    .
            On the Confederate side, the major figures of the campaign were Generals Joseph E. Johnston and John
                    Bell Hood and President Jefferson Davis. General Braxton Bragg was also active as Davis's
                    military advisor. Castel appropriately labels Johnston "overrated" and Hood
                    "overaggressive." These leaders did not cooperate among themselves, and the
                    controversy among them was a factor in the Confederate defeat. Johnston simply ignored the
                    instructions of his government. Having disloyally undermined 
                    Johnston, Hood replaced Johnston late in the campaign and failed in the ultimate battles at 
                        Atlanta
                    . As the author makes clear, the fall of 
                        Atlanta
                     on September 1 and 2, 1864, was a major factor in 
                        Lincoln
                    's reelection. The campaign was therefore literally a "decision in the
                    West."
            Implicit, and sometimes explicit, in Castel's evaluation of the military leaders in the
                    campaign is his admiration of General Robert E. Lee's leadership in the East. This reviewer
                    rejects Lee as the criterion of generalship. Frequently a brilliant tactician,
                    Lee's grand strategic sense of the war was premised on the military defeat of the North, an
                    unlikely goal, rather than on wearing out the North's will to fight, a realizable
                    objective. This led him to aggressiveness that produced disproportionate, irreplaceable, and
                    unaffordable casualties destructive to the Confederacy's chances of victory. Regardless of
                    the Lee issue, which is not central to the 
                        Atlanta
                     campaign, Castel's book is wonderfully researched and written, has refreshing
                    original insights, and is plainly a definitive work on the campaign.
            The 1862 Pea Ridge campaign, pitting the Federal Army of the Southwest against the Confederate Army
                    of the West, has never been adequately reported. Indeed, William L. Shea and Earl J. Hess have
                    provided the first detailed account of this campaign in southwestern Missouri and northwestern 
                        Arkansas
                    . It is an exceptional work. One suspects that the campaign has been overlooked in part
                    because of historians' undue emphasis on the war in the Virginia theater and preoccupation
                    with the romanticized eastern battles involving the Army of the Potomac and the Army of Northern 
                        Virginia
                    . As the authors accurately state, the "victory at Pea Ridge was the turning
                    point of Federal efforts to dominate the Trans-
                        Mississippi
                    " (p. 308). Fought in the depths of winter and fraught with almost unbelievable
                    logistical difficulties, the campaign featured remarkably valiant soldiers and an interesting array
                    of general officers. Principal among the latter was the underrated General Samuel R. Curtis, the
                    Federal commander, and the erratic Federal General Franz Sigel. General Earl Van Dorn incompetently
                    led the southern participants.
            The research base of the book is impressive, and the book is marked by the authors' fine
                    strategic grasp and capacity to present a complex campaign with great clarity. The reader discovers
                    that the resolute Curtis anticipated Sherman's strategy of foraging and living off the
                    country. Curtis also emancipated slaves without hesitation, and his actions were not reversed or
                    criticized by the 
                        Washington
                     administration. The significance of the campaign is accurately characterized:
                    "By the time Curtis led his dusty blue column into 
                        Helena
                     in the summer of 1862, Missouri was safe for the Union, half of Arkansas was lost to
                    the Confederacy, and the strategic balance in the Mississippi Valley was altered
                    permanently"  (p. 306). In presenting this decisive
                    campaign the authors have made a significant contribution to the scholarship of the war.
            
               
                        Chickamauga
                    , the only marked Confederate victory in the west, was a bloody melee in which neither
                    army commander had control of his army. For the Federal Army of the 
                        Cumberland
                     the commander was the mercurial Major General William S. Rosecrans. His command
                    opponent was the ill-fated General Braxton Bragg, commander of the Army of 
                        Tennessee
                    . The battle also featured Rosecrans's lieutenant, Major General George H.
                    Thomas, who was to replace Rosecrans in command of the army after the battle, and Lieutenant General
                    James Longstreet who brought several brigades of his corps from the Army of Northern Virginia to the
                    event. It was Thomas's dogged defense at Snodgrass Hill on the second day of the battle,
                    after Rosecrans and much of the Federal army had retreated to 
                        Chattanooga
                    , that saved the Federals from a total defeat and the loss of 
                        Chattanooga
                    .
            Peter Cozzens has written of the battle in the way it happened, in segments, detailing the
                    unsystematic fighting even at the regimental level. As a consequence, the larger context of events
                    and of the battle as a whole is sometimes obscured by detail. At the command level, Cozzens has fine
                    insights into the problematic Rosecrans, and he details the controversy in the Confederate army that
                    continuously surrounded Braxton Bragg, including President Jefferson Davis's post-battle
                    inept efforts to quiet the controversy between Bragg and his commanders. These accounts underline
                    two major Confederate tragedies. As Bell I. Wiley once wrote, "strife was the
                    Confederacy's evil genius and no major organization or activity escaped its crippling
                        influence."1 And the valiant and gutsy Army of Tennessee never had
                    the kind of leadership that it was entitled to and which could have reversed its doleful history of
                    defeat and losses. An immediate consequence of this lack was the failure of the Confederates to
                    realize on the promise of the 
                        Chickamauga
                     victory. The Union held on to 
                        Chattanooga
                     and in November decisively defeated Bragg's army at Missionary Ridge.
            ALAN T. NOLAN is a practicing lawyer and writer. His Civil War
                    books are The Iron Brigade (1961) and Lee Considered: General Robert
                        E. Lee and Civil War History (1991). He is currently considering the contentions of the
                    Lost Cause version of the causes, conduct, and consequences of the war. He lives in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            
               
                  1 Bell I. Wiley, The Road to 
                                Appomattox
                            
                   (
                            Memphis
                        , 1956), 98–99.
            
         
         
         
            A Last Word From the Editor
            This is the last issue of the Indiana Magazine of History to display on the title
                    page my name as editor. After seventeen years it is time to give up the blue pencil. My primary
                    reason for exercising the right of last word is to thank the many people who made these years so
                    meaningful to me: Martin Ridge, who taught me what blue pencils were for; the many graduate students
                    at Indiana University who worked as editorial assistants and assistant editors; the folks at the
                    Indiana Historical Society, particularly Gayle Thornbrough, Peter Harstad, and Tom 
                        Mason
                    ; the dozens of historians across the state who served on the Editorial Advisory
                    Committee and did much of the hardest work in making judgments about revision and publication of
                    articles; the hundreds of willing book reviewers; and most of all Lorna Lutes Sylvester, who always
                    kept me on my toes and patiently taught me about her native state even though we never agreed fully
                    on what Hoosiers really were or are. From all I learned.
            Although I am leaving the editorship of this journal, I am not deserting the history of Indiana. On
                    the contrary, my current writing focuses squarely on the state's past, and I will continue
                    teaching my course on Indiana history at the university in 
                        Bloomington
                    . Other duties now occupy more of my time, but I'm a long way, I hope, from
                    being rid of Indiana history.
            Finally, I intend to do for my successor what Donald Carmony did for me: get out of the way and let
                    the new guy do his thing. Richard Blackett, a colleague in the History Department in 
                        Bloomington
                    , is a specialist in nineteenth-century history, particularly the history of African
                    Americans, and a former editor at the Journal of American History. I am eager to
                    listen to his voice on these pages.
            James H. Madison
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
