
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 78, Issue 4, pages 273-401. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:78+issue:4+year:1982&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            May Wright Sewall: An Indiana Reformer
            
                    Jane Stephens
                    *
                
            In Crown Hill Cemetery in 
                        Indianapolis
                     today, upon a hill in Section 38, there is a large and impressive monument for James
                    Whitcomb Riley. Perhaps fifty feet away in the same section there is another monument, equally
                    impressive, for Benjamin Harrison. Between these two there is a small flat tombstone, almost
                    unnoticed, for May Wright Sewall. Writing at the turn of the century, Booth Tarkington noted that
                    "in company with General Harrison and Mr. Riley, May Wright Sewall would necessarily have
                    been chosen … as one of the ‘three most prominent citizens of
                        Indiana.’"1 In light of subsequent treatment how strange
                    this assertion seems: most readers of Tarkington's statement today would wonder who May
                    Wright Sewall was.
            Sewall established a national and international reputation through several endeavors. She sought to
                    enlarge the role of women in Society, to mobilize women and get them to play a larger role in this
                    country and the world. She actively campaigned for a woman's right to an education equal to
                    that offered men. She sought the ballot for women, firmly believing that once educated and armed
                    with political rights women could stop war, clean up Society, and create a better world for
                    humankind. Not content with merely improving this world, Sewall also sought to conquer the ultimate
                    frontier. Two months before her death she revealed what had been a carefully concealed belief in
                    spiritualism. By 1920, Sewall's fame as a women's rights activist, peace advocate,
                    and spiritualist had 
                  
                     * Jane Stephens is associate professor of history at
                            Southeast Missouri State University, 
                        Cape
                                Girardeau, Missouri
                     .
                  
                     1 May Wright Sewall, Neither Dead Nor Sleeping (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1920), [xvi—xvii].
               
                     spread so widely that she was one of the best known Hoosiers in
                    the world.
            Born Mary Eliza Wright in 
                  Milwaukee, Wisconsin
               , in 1844, she was a precocious child,
                    reading 
                        Milton
                     by age seven.2 After attending public schools, Wright taught in
                            
                  Waukesha, Wisconsin
               , and then entered Northwestern Female College (later
                    absorbed by Northwestern University) in 
                  Evanston,
                            Illinois
               . In 1866 she received the
                    degree of Mistress of Science, becoming one of the first women graduates in America outside Oberlin.
                    In 1871, Wright was awarded the Master of Arts degree.3
            
            After graduation, Wright taught school in the tiny and provincial community of 
                  Corinth, Mississippi
               . Apparently not finding the post-Civil War South to her liking,
                    she accepted a teaching position in Plainwell, 
                        Michigan
                    , in 1867 and subsequently became the first woman principal of the school. It was from
                    here that Wright moved to a high school in 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana, where Edwin Thompson was principal. In 1872, she and Thompson married. Both
                    accepted teaching positions in what was later to become Shortridge High School in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Three years after their marriage Thompson died of tuberculosis; however, his widow
                    remained in 
                        Indianapolis
                     at the same institution for five years, teaching German and English literature.4
            
            In 1880 May Wright Thompson married Theodore Sewall, principal of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Classical School, and subsequently began teaching German in his school. Theodore Sewall
                    shared his wife's commitment to reform, and it was during her marriage to him that she
                    undertook her most ardent work for educational advancement for women as well as her work in the
                    suffrage movement. The couple turned their home, known as Sewall House, into a virtual salon in the
                    European sense, with many notables included on their guest lists.5
            
            Throughout her married life May Wright Sewall never questioned the postulate that women should seek
                    self-fulfillment. Those who protested against new opportunities for women, whether in the form of
                    education or the ballot, argued 
                  
                     2 Marcia Hoagland, "May W. Sewall—An
                            Appreciation," April 6, 1933, p. 1; copy in Indiana Division, Indiana State
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     3 Clifton J. Phillips, "Sewall, May Eliza Wright" in
                            Edward T. James, Janet Wilson James, and Paul S. Boyer, eds., Notable American
                                Women, 1607–1950: A Biographical Dictionary (3 vols., 
                                Cambridge
                            , 1971), III, 269.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid.
                  
                     5 Sewall House Visitors' Register (
                                Marion County
                             Public Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
               
                    
                    
                  MAY WRIGHT SEWALL
                  
                  Reproduced from Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, and Matilda Joslyn Gage, eds. History of Woman Suffrage 3 vols., 
                                Rochester
                            , 1887, III.
                that women were happiest when they were striving to please their husbands and families. To
                    this argument Sewall responded: 
                        To make it the object of one's life to please another person is to forget God, to
                            quench conscience, to lose sight of the personal ideal; it is to nurture deceit in
                            one's self and vanity in that other; it is an object of life as belittling to the
                            one who demands it as to the one who pursues it.6
                  
                    
            
            Self-fulfillment for women in the 1880s, however, was no simple matter, as the nature of
                    opportunities in higher education illustrated. Considering the feeble beginnings of what may be
                    called the "higher education movement" for women, consisting of boarding schools,
                    female seminaries, coeducational academies, and female colleges, women by the 1880s had made
                    considerable progress. Yet major barriers to higher education for women remained.7 In an address presented to the International Council of Women in 1888, Sewall spoke of
                    progress and 
                  
                     6 May Wright Sewall, "Woman's Work." 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times. May 7, 1882. Sewall edited this column from 1882 to 1885.
                  
                     7 Mabel Newcomer, A Century of Higher Education for
                            Women (
                                New York
                            , 1959). 6.
               
                     the problems, using statistics gathered by the Bureau of
                    Education in 1886. Most poignantly, she noted, only 35,976 women were enrolled in the 529 colleges
                    or universities admitting women, compared to the 802 institutions for men with a male enrollment of
                    78,185. Even including enrollees in normal schools, where in 1886 women outnumbered men 27,616 to
                    12,616, only 65 percent as many higher institutions were open to women as to men.8 Sewall illustrated a further contrast between men's and women's
                    educational opportunities: "Communities and states, like individuals, express their
                    opinions in their investments." Investments in buildings and grounds for higher education
                    for men in 1886 were $62,356,638, compared to $9,635,282 for women's
                    facilities. In addition, Sewall protested that there were no state appropriations for the support of
                    women's colleges while state appropriations of $1,690,275 were made for
                    men's colleges and universities.9
            
            Sewall believed that the barriers placed in the path of women seeking higher education were based on
                    three theories. First, there were those arguments arising from the alleged limitations of a
                    woman's nature. Advocates of "natural womanhood" argued that it was
                    "fruitless cruelty to encourage women to undertake an education which they could not
                    achieve, inasmuch as their failure would make their mental limitations conspicuous, and thus add to
                    their disappointment bitter mortification." Even if a few exceptional women should
                    demonstrate their possession of the mental capacity to do college-level work, their feeble bodies
                    would "sink under the severe application to abstruse subjects, and the result of such
                    efforts would be (to quote the awful phrase of one who signed himself ‘A Worshiper of
                    Womanhood’) hospitals and asylums filled with highly educated female wrecks."10
            
            Taking the same argument further, Sewall explained that those who advocated this position asserted
                    that even should a few women prove their ability to acquire a higher education, these acquirements
                    would "impair feminine grace, dull feminine sensibilities and destroy domestic tastes,
                    thereby unfitting women for the conjugal and maternal relations in which Heaven had appointed that
                    they should find their chief happiness."11
                    
                  
                     8 May Wright Sewall, "Higher Education for Women in the 
                                United States
                            ," Report of the International Council of Women, Assembled
                                by the National Woman Suffrage Association; 
                                    Washington, D.C.
                                , U.S. of America, March 25 to April 1, 1888 (
                                Washington, D.C.
                            , 1888), 56–58.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 58–59.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 54.
               
                     In her newspaper column, Sewall frequently attacked this
                    argument. By the 1880s, she knew that facts revealed the absurdity of such a position: 
                        in the long ago every claim of women for a share in higher labors and their rewards was met
                            by the assertion that woman's delicate physical organism would not permit it. Short
                            dresses, loose waists and thick shoes, with an increased degree of exercise corresponding to
                            the reform in clothing cancelled this objection; investigation disclosed the fact that the
                            average length of woman's life is greater than man's. Opponents next
                            asserted that woman's mind could never compass the acquisitions and endure the
                            discipline which could alone fit her for man's equal partner in life's
                            duties. The ease with which women bore away prizes and honors as soon as they had collegiate
                            opportunity was an offset to that argument. Then sentimentality and lack of practical
                            faculty was next urged as an argument against their possible success in the world. The
                            steady increase of the women who can and do earn comfortable incomes awakened the fear that
                            women, after all, had too much practical sense—and they urged that professional
                            and business activity and pecuniary independence would harden women's heart and the
                            very source of the world's sweetest sympathies would be dried up.12
                  
                    
            
            Proponents of a second argument against women's education asserted that women were created
                    for men and that the education of females should serve the best interests of the male population.
                    Sewall quoted one advocate of this position: the "tenderness, affection, and chivalrous
                    regard with which women had inspired men had been the chief agencies in softening men's
                    rough nature." According to this proponent, when the educated woman became self-sufficient,
                    her independence of man could cause him to relapse into barbarism. In addition, the value of
                    men's college degrees would decrease if granted to women. The first institution that asked
                    authority to confer degrees upon women was refused on the grounds that if women were to wear titles
                    and degrees, it would "cheapen academic honors in the esteem of men and abate their
                    intellectual enthusiasm."13
            
            The final argument against women's education was, according to Sewall, the one most widely
                    accepted by women themselves: higher education for women would upset the status quo. Writing in
                    1883, Sewall asked, 
                        Will the girl who reads Homer, who pores over Euclid … be attractive to young men
                            who are wife-seeking? Will the young woman who is trained as an architect, skilled as a
                            physician, or eloquent as a preacher—will she ever be satisfied to abandon these
                            labors for those of the nursery and kitchen?
                    
                    
                  
                     11
                            Ibid.
                  
                     12 Sewall, "Woman's Work," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, January 7, 1883.
                  
                     13 Sewall, "Higher Education for Women," 54.
               
                     Such were the questions that came from four out of five men
                    with whom Sewall discussed the issue of women's education.14
            
            To Sewall these arguments implied a fixed conviction that marriage and the home had little intrinsic
                    value and were welcomed only by women to whom all other alternatives were closed. Sewall did not
                    place marriage and family in such a lowly position. In her opinion, fear that woman's
                    Social and domestic value would "depreciate according to her development, her self-respect
                    and her self-sufficiency [had] no place outside of indolent fancy."15
                    Sewall believed an education enhanced the prospects for a happy marriage. Education elevated
                    marriage from woman's sole pursuit and vocation to one of several options and thus made it
                    approximate more closely ideal marriage. Ideal marriage, according to Sewall, was "the
                    union of one man and one woman who being equally independent, [were] equally and reciprocally
                        dependent."16
            
            In addition to better marriages, better hygienic and sanitary conditions in nurseries and kitchens
                    would result from women's education. However, Sewall believed that none of these positive
                    arguments for an education should have been necessary because an education was a noble end in
                    itself. 
                        Remembering that an education, if genuine, frees one's powers and liberalizes
                            one's spirit, one must regard this intellectual liberty, which is its fruit, as a
                            sufficient reason for desiring it, especially in the case of women. As a class, women are so
                            trammeled by precedent, prejudice, fashion, Social conventions, and narrow experience; as a
                            class they are so encased in their own emotional environment, that intellectual liberty, is
                            perhaps their only certain path to intelligent free-will.17
                  
                    
            
            Sewall did more than simply philosophize on the question of women's education. She put her
                    ideas into practice at the Girls' Classical School in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which she operated with her husband from 1882 until his death in 1895 and alone until
                    1907. The school occupied the St. Anna's School Building on North 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Street. Sewall insisted that the curriculum for the institution not follow the common
                    pattern for a girls' school, with stress on the Social graces, but instead be the same as
                    that of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Classical School for boys, 
                  
                     14 Sewall, "Woman's Work," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, July 19, 1883.
                  
                     15 Ibid., July 23, 1883.
                  
                     16 May Wright Sewall, "The Domestic and Social Effects of the
                            Higher Education of Women" (n.p., n.d.), 7. This paper was read before the Western
                            Association of Collegiate Alumna at 
                        Ann
                                Arbor, Michigan
                     ,
                            December 10, 1887. It has been printed in the form of a twenty-two-page pamphlet.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., 17.
               
                     which in 1882 had been in operation for seven years. The course
                    of study was based on the 
                        Harvard
                     examinations for women, which also covered the requirements for admission to Smith,
                    Vassar, Wellesley, and other colleges. Music, painting, drawing, and "similar
                    branches" were riot taught in the school, but special attention was paid
                    to "physical training."18 According to Thomas Woody, the noted
                    historian of women's education, physical training was not taught in women's
                    colleges until the latter part of the nineteenth century.19 Sewall's
                    inclusion of this course in the Girls' Classical School curriculum was not only
                    controversial but also was closely related to the issue of women's dress reform.
            Within two months of the school's opening, Sewall requested that parents consider the
                    adoption of a "simple school dress" consisting of a kilt skirt and loose waist
                    with a sash. This met the requirements advocated by Sewall for reform in women's dress:
                    freedom of movement; absence of pressure over any part of the body; no more weight than was
                    necessary for warmth, and both weight and warmth equally distributed; and quick changeability. In
                    the day of the corset, bustle, and petticoats, Sewall dared not require such a uniform but urged
                    parents to consider such a dress code for the health and comfort of her students. She required,
                    however, the adoption of special shoes. Some students were wearing shoes whose heels "made
                    it impossible for wearers to participate with success in portions of the gymnastics
                        classes."20
            
            The Girls' Classical School catalogue for the year 1883–1884 summarized what had
                    been accomplished in the past year for women's education: "in both amount and the
                    quality of the work done, including Latin, Greek, Mathematics, French, German and English, the
                    pupils have shown themselves at least equal to the pupils in the School for Boys, and have fully
                    justified the expectation with which the School was founded. … "21 Evidence of such success was seen when the cornerstone of a new building for the
                    Girls' Classical School was laid in 1884 at 426 North 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Street. By the 
                  
                     18 Scrapbooks of Classical School, vol II (Indiana Division, Indiana
                            State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     19 Thomas Woody, A History of Women's Education
                                in the, 
                                    United States
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1929). II, 118–20.
                  
                     20 May Wright Sewall. "A Symposium on Women's
                            Dress," The Arena, VI (September, 1892). 490. Also, "A
                            Simple School Dress," in Scrapbooks of Classical School, vol. II.
                  
                     21 "A Simple School Dress." Scrapbooks of Classical
                            School, vol. II.
               
                     following year a brochure for the Girls' Classical
                    School stated that graduates had been admitted to Vassar, Smith, and Wellesley colleges upon
                    certification from the principal and without examinations.22
            
            In 1886 a school residence opened at 343 and 345 North 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Street. By this time the school's purpose was twofold. There was still a
                    course of study designed as a preparatory school for colleges, but there was also a course of study
                    for women who were not planning to enroll in college. Graduates of the school who took the college
                    courses could now enroll as juniors at Indiana University or sophomores at Leland Stanford
                        University.23
            
            Sewall's personal reputation as well as that of the school continued to spread. She was by
                    now the founder of the National and International Councils of Women, which had brought her world
                    fame, and she was still actively espousing the cause of women's suffrage.
            At the height of these activities, Theodore Sewall, who encouraged his wife in reform activities,
                    died of tuberculosis in 1895. After his death May Wright Sewall became the sole principal of the
                    Girls' Classical School. She continued adding innovations—an adult education
                    program and a Department of Industrial Domestic Science (later named Household Science). The latter
                    included chemistry, physics, physiology, composition of foods, and practice work in cookery. Classes
                    in invalid cookery and home nursing also were offered. These courses had equal rank with the
                    academic classes. A two-story addition to the school was necessary to accommodate the new
                        department.24 The course of study in domestic science was one of the first
                    offered in Indiana or in the nation. Woody stated that "it required boldness …
                    to set up to teach a thing scientifically that had been thought to reside in an individual
                    naturally." The first such cooking school mentioned by Woody was established in 1874.
                    Classes remained experimental throughout the rest of the century, and as late as 1916 only 20
                    percent of the public schools offered classes in home economics.25
            
            
               
                  22 See also "Mrs. May Wright Sewall's Girls'
                        Classical School," Our Herald, September 27, 1884, p, 5. This weekly
                        journal was published in 
                            Lafayette
                        , Indiana, and was devoted to the championship of suffrage and prohibition.
               
                  23 "Special Announcement, 1887–1888,"
                        Scrapbooks of Classical School, vol. 11.
               
                  24 "Girls Classical School Catalogue,
                        1902–03," p. 42, in ibid.
               
                  25 Woody, History of Women's Education, 11,
                        57–60.
            
            
            In spite of such innovations, by 1900 the Girls' Classical School was having financial
                    problems. First, Fredonia Allen, a former teacher for the school, established a rival school, Tudor
                    Hall, which was modeled after the Classical School. In addition, public high schools had become
                    common in Indiana. As a result of the financial difficulties, Sewall entered into a partnership with
                    Anna F. Weaver in 1905. For two years the women operated the school together, but in 1907 Sewall
                    announced her retirement. In a letter, Sewall explained, 
                        An entry in my diary, made the night before The Classical School opened in 1882, ran thus:
                            ‘Tomorrow I commence work to which I now expect to give the chief part of my life
                            for twenty-five years.’
                        This I have been permitted to do. This entry shows that it was within my intention to give
                            only twenty-five years to this particular method of carrying out my educational ideas. For
                            this opportunity I am profoundly grateful.26
                  
                     For the next three years Weaver operated the school alone. In 1910 it closed permanently.
                    For a decade prior to Sewall's retirement from the school, however, she had been traveling
                    extensively and working in another field—the woman's club
                    movement—which garnered her an international reputation.
            Sewall's genius lay in her ability to organize. She was once described as a "Social
                    clockmaker who gets human machinery into shape, winds it up and sets it to running."27 Her international reputation rested largely upon her success in organizing
                    and unifying the women's clubs of the world through what she termed "the council
                    idea." The council idea originated when Sewall discovered that women most often
                    "were interested only in women of their own class or in the legitimate recipients of their
                    own charities." She felt that a typical woman's club of the time consisted of
                    individuals of about the same Social position, with similar opinions, tastes, and aspirations. Such
                    groups seldom had contact with clubs of dissimilar backgrounds and interests. Through a National and
                    International Council Sewall sought to bring women of varied backgrounds together under conditions
                    that would show them that though different in traditions, wealth, Social position, religion, and
                    political opinions, they were all equally related to larger interests. Indeed, "likenesses
                        
                  
                     26 May Wright Sewall, "To the Graduates of the
                            Girls' Classical School," n.d., in Scrapbooks of Classical School, vol. V.
                  
                     27 "Mrs. May Wright Sewall: A Sketch of Her Work," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, April 6, 1902.
               
                     existing among the most different classes of women were larger
                    than the differences among the same classes."28
            
            The seed for the council idea was sown at a 
                        London
                     reception given for Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony in 1882. The two
                    American suffrage leaders decided to form an International Woman's Suffrage Society. A
                    resolution calling for such a Society was proposed and adopted at this reception, and an
                    international committee was appointed.29 It had not convened five years later
                    when Sewall was chairing the executive committee of the National Woman's Suffrage
                    Association, which was planning a special celebration for the fortieth anniversary of the Seneca
                    Falls Convention of 1848. Under Sewall's direction invitations were extended to this
                    international committee. As a result, European delegates attended the meeting in 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , in 1888.30
            
            At this meeting Sewall stated her plan for forming two permanent organizations—National
                    and International Councils—to meet at regular intervals. She moved that a committee be
                    appointed to consider the council idea and specific plans for organization. The committee was
                    appointed, including such people as Frances Willard, Mary A. Livermore, Julia Ward Howe, Lucy Stone,
                    Antoinette B. Blackwell, and May Wright Sewall. This organizing committee met on March 27, 1888,
                    passed a resolution in conformity with Sewall's plan, and adopted constitutions for a
                    National Council and an International Council to be composed of the National Councils.31
            
            Sewall travelled throughout Europe urging that a National Council be organized for each country. A
                    "call" was printed and distributed everywhere she travelled, pleading for local
                    women's clubs having the same objectives to form national Societies 
                  
                     28 May Wright Sewall, Genesis of the International
                                Council of Women and the Story of Its Growth, 1883–1893 (n.p., 1914),
                            10.
                  
                     29
                     Ibid., 2.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., 7. The origin of the councils is also described by Inez Haynes
                            Irwin, Angels and Amazons (
                                New York
                            , 1933), 229–31, and Anna Garlin Spencer, The Council
                                Idea and May Wright Sewall (
                                New Brunswick
                            , 1930), 1–3.
                  
                     31 Sewall, Genesis, 13–16. Willard was
                            nationally known as the president of the Women's Christian Temperance Union. Stone
                            and Blackwell had been active as abolitionists and were in the forefront of the
                            women's movement. Howe was co-founder with Stone of the American Woman's
                            Suffrage Association and had won international attention with her song, "The Battle
                            Hymn of the Republic." Livermore was prominent for her work with the U.S. Sanitary
                            Commission during the Civil War. See biographies in James, James and Boyer, eds., Notable American Women, 1607–1950.
               
                     so that they could be eligible for membership in the national
                        councils.32
            
            In the 
                        United States
                     Sewall explained that local Societies should unite in councils for each town or city
                    and that all state Societies should enter state and territorial councils. She asserted
                    "that this general plan of solidarity [would] be helpful to the utmost possible degree,
                    bringing women of all sects and sections into mutual acquaintances, efficiency and
                    fellowship." The simplicity of the plan was, to Sewall, its chief advantage, and the
                    practical applications were unlimited. The case of circulating petitions among women would alone
                    justify such an organization.33
            
            The number of American local and state clubs, by definition ineligible for membership in the
                    Councils, continued to be a major concern to Sewall. She therefore urged the organization of local
                    and state clubs into one national organization which would qualify for membership in the National
                    Council. Her work bore fruit in 1889 when the foundation was laid for the General Federation of
                    Women's Clubs. Sewall attended the organizational meeting and was one of five women who
                    wrote its bylaws. Within two months of its organization, however, the General Federation decided not
                    to affiliate with the National Council because the Federation itself was a "sovereign and
                    international body."34 Sewall was keenly disappointed. Although she was
                    a founder of the movement and was elected the first vice-president of the General Federation,35 her interest in it gradually waned when the organization failed to join the
                    National Council.
            Her belief in the objectives of the councils remained strong, however. The National Council of Women
                    of the 
                        United States
                     urged a variety of reforms: that women be admitted to the ranks of the clergy; that
                    women be placed on the board of the National Divorce Reform League; that the 
                        United States
                     government pay its employees equal wages for equal work; that dress be reformed; and
                    that the slaughter of birds be restricted.36
            
            The First Triennial Meeting of the National Council of Women reached a most important decision
                    concerning the 
                  
                     32 Sewall, Genesis, 38–40.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 52.
                  
                     34 J. C. Croly, The History of the Woman's Club
                                Movement in America (
                                New York
                            , 1898), 100.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid.
                  
                     36 Sewall, Genesis, 46–47.
               
                     World's Exposition of 1893. The 
                        United States
                     Congress made plans for celebrating the discovery of America by organizing an
                    exposition in 
                        Chicago
                     in 1893. Since the first meeting of the International Council was planned for the same
                    year, Sewall wished for her group to meet in 
                        Chicago
                     as one of the world "congresses" the 
                        United States
                     government had scheduled in conjunction with the exposition. Sewall obtained
                    permission. The congress was to be referred to as "the World's Congress of
                    Representative Women."37
            
            Sewall was delighted. She printed an invitation to "women in all parts of the world
                    interested in any department of intellectual activity, in philanthropy or reform": 
                        Every living question pertaining to the education or the employment of women may be discussed
                            in this congress. In its session the women's view upon every issue affecting
                            humanity—upon the home, the church, the state, and her own function in these
                            institutions—may be presented. What such a congress may do for the uplifting of
                            humanity if the women of the world avail themselves of its unique advantages for stating
                            their views of the present conditions of the race, of its struggles, its possibilities, its
                            hopes, is incalculable.
                        The aid which such a congress will give to the solution of the hundreds of problems included
                            in what is massed under the phrase, ‘The Woman Question’, is equally
                            beyond measure. Humanity may well entertain eager anxiety regarding the manner in which
                            women will respond to this matchless opportunity.38
                  
                     Between September 13, 1892, and May 1, 1893, the Organizing Committee sent out 7,198
                    letters and 55,000 copies of the printed address to all parts of the world.39
            
            When the World's Congress assembled, 126 national organizations of women were represented.
                    The secretary of the World's Congress Auxiliary stated that total attendance at the
                    meetings exceeded 150,000 persons. The week's congress proved so successful that the 
                        United States
                     government presented Sewall an award, and a room of the Woman's Building was
                    allotted for the two Councils for exhibits with a permanent desk assigned for the International
                        Council.40
            
            Sewall's dream had come true. By 1900 Bertha Knobe referred to her as a leader of over five
                    million women by virtue of her election as president of the International Council of Women.41 Also in this year, President William McKinley recognized Sewall's
                    influence by appointing her to represent the 
                  
                     37
                     Ibid., 48–49.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., 57.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., 59.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 74.
                  
                     41 Bertha Demaris Knobe, "Mrs. May W. Sewall: Leader of Over
                            5,000,000 Women," Harper's Bazaar, XXXIII (June 2,
                            1900), 8.
               
                     women of the 
                        United States
                     at the International Congresses for the 
                        Paris
                     Exposition.42
            
            By 1907 the International Council of Women was the largest of all organizations of women. It
                    consisted of over twenty national councils and represented approximately eight million women. Both
                    the National Council of the 
                        United States
                     and the International Council still exist. Each, however, was at its zenith during
                    Sewall's lifetime. A contemporary of Sewall observed: "the varied organizations of
                    women for specific reforms and for philanthropic work themselves nationalized, and later
                    internationalized their activities, until the object each pursued was so strong in its own specialty
                    that the need for coordinated support offered by the Council ceased to be felt and the financial
                    support of the Council was neglected."43 The attainment of
                    women's suffrage also reduced interest in the Council because once women could vote they
                    could voice their needs politically. It was in this realm of women's suffrage that Sewall
                    made one of her greatest contributions to reform.
            Much work had already been done in Indiana when Sewall joined the suffrage campaign. Indiana was one
                    of five states that formed a state women's rights organization within three years of the
                    Seneca Falls Convention of 1848, but when Sewall arrived in the state in 1872 no significant
                    progress had been made. Indiana's suffrage movement was suffering the same fate as the
                    national movement: it had been totally disrupted by the Civil War and four years later split into
                    two groups. Most Indiana suffragists remained loyal to the more conservative American Woman Suffrage
                    Association led by Lucy Stone. Sewall favored the more radical National Woman Suffrage Association,
                    founded by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony, and remained aloof from the Indiana branch
                    of the American Association.44
            
            In March, 1878, Sewall and nine other individuals frustrated by the conservative nature of the old
                    organization held a secret suffrage meeting of their own. According to Sewall, "mysterious
                    whisperings" advertised the fact that there was to be a meeting of people known to have
                    "advanced ideas" concerning 
                  
                     42 Ida H. Harper, "The Work of the International Council of
                            Women," World Today, XIII (July, 1907). 698.
                  
                     43
                            
                                Spencer
                            , The Council Idea, 50.
                  
                     44 May Wright Sewall, "Indiana," in Elizabeth Cady
                            Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, and Matilda Joslyn Gage, eds., History of Woman
                                Suffrage (6 vols., reprinted 
                                New York
                            , 1969), III, 533–58.
               
                     women. In response to the secretly circulated summons, nine
                    women and one man, whom Sewall described as "not mutually acquainted, but the most
                    courageous of those to whom the call had come," assembled to discuss women's
                        suffrage.45
            
            The secrecy of the meeting seems strange since suffrage had been debated in Indiana for fifteen years
                    by this time. However, in the 1880s "respectable citizens" refrained from openly
                    advocating suffrage. Sewall was by now teaching in the highly respected 
                        Indianapolis
                     Classical School; perhaps this explained her apprehension. She later looked back upon
                    this first meeting with amusement. 
                        As a participant, I may say that the company had the air of a band of conspirators. Had we
                            convened consciously to plot the ruin of our domestic life, which opponents predict as the
                            result of woman's enfranchisement, we could not have looked more guilty or have
                            moved about with more unnatural stealth.46
                  
                    
            
            At that meeting only one issue was definitely settled. A discussion ensued whether the new Society
                    should take a name concealing its primary goal from the public or one openly advertising it. The
                    group chose the latter. Sewall concluded that "the fact that ten conscientious, upright
                    persons could thus secretly convene in an obscure room, and that such a question could agitate them
                    for more than two hours, is the best indication … of the conservative atmosphere which
                    enveloped 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the 1870s."47
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Suffragists held their next meeting in April and advertised it in the local newspapers.
                    Twenty-six men and women attended this meeting and established a permanent organization, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Equal Suffrage Association. The new Society chose Sewall as its representative to the
                    Jubilee Convention held by the National Woman Suffrage Association in 
                        Rochester
                     in 1878, celebrating the thirtieth anniversary of the first Seneca Falls meeting. It
                    was at this meeting that Sewall gave her first speech on women's suffrage to a national
                    audience. Afterwards, Lucretia Mott commended Sewall for her "strength, philosophic
                    clearness and beauty of diction." Stanton, Anthony, and Frederick Douglass also
                    congratulated 
                  
                     45
                            Ibid. 535.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid.
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., 535–36.
               
                     Sewall, and from this date she maintained a lasting friendship
                    with all three.48
            
            In December, 1880, the new 
                        Indianapolis
                     Society directed a letter to each member of the Indiana General Assembly. It clearly
                    warned the legislators that their careers were being watched carefully and urged that they take up
                    the "Suffrage Question," devoting a day to hearing the arguments of suffrage
                    advocates before voting to remove "the unjust restrictions of the elective franchise to one
                        sex."49 Earlier that year, in a letter to Sara Andrews Spencer,
                    corresponding secretary to the National Woman Suffrage Association, Sewall stated what she thought
                    was holding back progress in Indiana: "We find langour of effort here, but the reason of it
                    seems not so much a disbelief in the cause as an apathy—as the belief that suffrage for
                    women is so sure a thing that it is not necessary to struggle for it!"50
            
            Sewall dedicated herself to the elimination of this apathy by writing about the subject often in her
                    column in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Times. Many arguments had been advanced over the years opposing the franchise for
                    women. One often heard was the fear that the exercise of political rights by women would lead to
                    moral deterioriation. Sewall protested that far from this, civil and political equality would bring
                    a moral elevation: 
                        Hitherto, the codes of morality for men and women have differed widely. …
                            Excessive eating and drinking and unchastity deemed horrible in a woman have been called by
                            easy names, glazed over and winked at in men; on the other hand, the irritable temper,
                            habits of deception and malicious gossip … which would jeopardize any
                            man's reputation and business prospects, have been half expected in women, and in
                            them called by pretty names that have made the vices seem ornamental virtues, or at worst
                            amusing foibles, and have indeed been indirectly nourished.51
                  
                    
            
            Sewall believed the two separate moral standards were clearly evident in the presidential campaign of
                    1884 between Grover Cleveland and James G. Blaine. Among the campaign slander was the accusation
                    that 
                        Cleveland
                     had fathered an illegitimate child. When 
                        Cleveland
                     did not deny the accusation, Sewall charged: 
                        The present campaign brings into prominence the two moral standards of men and women
                            … we have presented various arguments for believing that this 
                        
                           48 "Sketch of May Wright Sewall," Our Herald, December 13, 1884.
                        
                           49 Sewall, "Indiana," 535.
                        
                           50 May Wright Sewall to Sarah Andrews Spencer, January 16,
                                    1880, May Wright Sewall Papers (
                                        Marion County
                                     Public Library).
                        
                           51 Sewall, "Woman's Work," 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Times, January 27, 1884.
                     
                             morality will be hastened by women's political
                            recognition. … The degree to which the country needs this influence is sadly
                            evidenced by the proclamation of young men that 
                                Cleveland
                            's crime, granting him to be guilty of all of which he is accused, is
                            not one that affects his fitness for official life.52
                  
                     When women received the ballot, a moral elevation would occur in national politics.
                    According to Sewall, purity in the state would be enforced by those who guarded purity in the
                        home.53
            
            A second argument against woman's suffrage was the belief that woman's place was in
                    the home. She should take no vital interest in public affairs because it was not in her nature to do
                    so. Sewall never doubted that a woman's first duty was to keep the house and care for her
                    family. Nor did she question that a man's first duty was to earn a living for his wife and
                    children. However, no one argued that all of a man's time must be absorbed by his first
                    duty. Likewise, Sewall saw no reason why a woman's home duties should completely
                    "absorb, monopolize and exhaust her."54
            
            A more facetious argument declared that the ballot would destroy beauty. An antisuffragist male made
                    the following comparison between the enfranchised woman and a bearded woman: 
                        The vote, ladies will in no way serve you, will aid none of you in your work; on the
                            contrary, it will rob you of your beauty. Political rights! It is as one should talk of the
                            mustache and the beard. A bearded woman! Is she pretty? No! Pray then continue to leave
                            politics to men as you leave to them mustaches and beards, and yourselves, remain women.55
                  
                    
            
            Sewall replied that the ballot would not make a woman plain. Rather it would enhance her beauty by
                    emancipating her. Happiness was the key to beauty and 
                        it was that martyrdom of the body and that agony of spirit inherent in a state of slavery
                            which made women ugly. Political rights would render women beautiful, because they would
                            procure her at the same time moral independence and material comfort. Men tell women that
                            the ballot will be of no service to them. How does it happen that the sex that votes is much
                            happier and more comfortable than the sex that does not vote?56
                  
                    
            
            Those who agreed that a woman's looks would hardly be altered for the worse might still
                    contend that women had no need for political rights because they were already represented. 
                  
                     52
                     Ibid., September 7, 1884.
                  
                     53
                     Ibid.
                  
                     54
                     Ibid., April 6, 1884.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., April 27, 1884.
                  
                     56
                            Ibid.
               
                     It was argued that the great majority of women were either
                    under the age of twenty-one or were married and therefore had no need for the ballot because they
                    were "under such influence and control as that relation implies or confers."57 To Sewall this was the most unfair argument of all. The claim that suffrage
                    was not a right but a privilege to be doled out to those who were deemed worthy was too unjust to be
                    comprehensible: 
                        No reason on earth can be given by those who claim suffrage as a right of manhood which does
                            not make it a right of womanhood also. … If it be urged that their interests are
                            80 bound up in those of man that they are sure to be protected, the answer is that the same
                            argument was urged to the merger in the husband of the wife's property, and it was
                            pronounced by the judgment of mankind fallacious in practice and in principle. If the nature
                            of men and women are so alike, for that reason no harm is done by suppressing women, what
                            harm can be done by elevating them to equality. If the nature be different, what right can
                            there be in refusing representation to those who might take juster action about many Social
                            and political questions?58
                  
                    
            
            Such arguments seemed to reduce apathy among Hoosiers, and as a result of letters, petitions, and
                    mass meetings, the Indiana Senate and House adopted a suffrage amendment in 1881 and submitted it to
                    the next General Assembly. However, the liquor industry responded with a campaign to link
                    women's suffrage with a proposed prohibition amendment and defeat both. Elections in 1882
                    led to rejection of both amendments by the 1883 General Assembly.59 In June,
                    1884, Sewall disclosed feelings of frustration. She expressed what she felt to be 
                        the hopelessness of carrying this question to the masses for a just decision. …
                            The majority of men are not yet governed in their actions by wisdom and justice; therefore
                            whatever may be said of National Legislation—the average intelligence of such
                            bodies is beyond doubt in excess of the average intelligence of the masses.60
                  
                    
            
            Her frustration was understandable because for the next three years suffrage remained at a standstill
                    in Indiana. The fight in 1883 was the climax of the decade. The legislature refused to give serious
                    consideration to woman's suffrage.61
            
            In May, 1887, new life for suffrage began when the Equal Suffrage Society transformed itself into a
                    state organization which was to be an auxiliary to the National Woman Suffrage 
                  
                     57
                     Ibid., May 11, 1884.
                  
                     58
                            Ibid.
                  
                     59 For an account of this campaign, see Sewall,
                            "Indiana," 540–44.
                  
                     60 Sewall, "Woman's Work," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, June 15, 1884.
                  
                     61 Sewall, "Indiana," 544; Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth,
                                1880–1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 498–99.
               
                     Association. Susan B. Anthony visited Sewall to encourage her
                    and agreed to hold the annual convention of the National Woman Suffrage Association in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in May, 1888.62 The following year, the two Indiana state suffrage
                    Societies agreed to merge into one state organization. By the time of this merger, a national
                    alliance had also occurred. The newly formed National Council of Women was influential in persuading
                    the two national suffrage organizations to combine as the National American Woman Suffrage
                    Association. This organization joined the National Council, and Sewall's work as a
                    suffragist merged with her work within the councils.63
            
            During the last decade of struggle for women's suffrage, Sewall was not in Indiana. Though
                    she remained an avid suffragist, she found what she considered to be an even more urgent cause which
                    dominated the next decade of her life. This new cause was to be the last in which Sewall would
                    participate —the search for international peace.
            That Sewall should become a peace advocate at the turn of the century was not at all surprising. The
                    peace movement, like the temperance crusade, was closely identified with feminists, and although the
                    American peace movement was older than the woman's movement, Sewall was the first actually
                    to organize a national woman's movement behind the peace effort. She accomplished this by
                    guiding the International Council of Women into accepting a peace platform that from 1899 to 1914
                    dominated the work of the organization and helped it become a driving force in the peace movement
                    throughout the world.64
            
            The first line of work which all councils agreed upon was the promotion of peace and arbitration. A
                    resolution was first adopted in 1899 which committed the International Council to working for the
                    establishment of peaceful relations among the nations throughout the world by every means in its
                    power. The same resolution was reaffirmed by the International Council in 1904 and 1909.65 These peace resolutions were intentionally worded in broad terms so each
                    national council would be free to 
                  
                     62 "Indiana," in 
                                Stanton
                            , Anthony and Gage, eds., History of Woman Suffrage, IV, 615.
                  
                     63
                            Ibid., 615–17.
                  
                     64 Merle Curti, Peace or War: The American Struggle
                                1636–1936 (
                                New York
                            , 1936), 116–17.
                  
                     65 May Wright Sewall, "Woman's Part in the Promotion
                            of Internationalism," in Proceedings of the Third American Peace
                                Congress Held in 
                           Baltimore, Maryland
                        , May Third to Sixth,
                            1911 (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1911), 419.
               
                     promote peace in its own country along lines which might vary
                    according to local conditions. However, the International Council itself, through its Committee on
                    Peace and Arbitration, attempted to promote internationalism by what Sewall referred to as
                    "all friendly means."66
            
            Peace was promoted by annual executive meetings held in the capitals of the countries belonging to
                    the International Council. Headquarters were also maintained at various international expositions,
                    such as the 
                        Columbia
                     Exposition in 
                        Chicago
                     in 1893, the Exposition of 
                        Paris
                     in 1900, and the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase Exposition at 
                        St. Louis
                     in 1904. At all these expositions the International Council circulated peace literature
                    and stressed the peace movement as a major aspect of its work.67
            
            Sewall, as president of the International Council and chairperson of its Committee on Peace and
                    Arbitration, advocated other means of securing international peace. She firmly believed that
                    nationalism as taught in school textbooks should be eliminated and replaced with a more
                    international feeling of brotherhood. She urged that each National Council make a rigid examination
                    of all textbooks on the history of its own country to ascertain to what degree the relative
                    importance of war and military glory were exaggerated. "It is believed
                    …," she wrote, "that to a degree which would be appalling were it
                    realized by the world, modern history … results in the development of an arrogant and
                    vain-glorious regard for one's own country, and in contempt, resentment and hatred toward
                    other nations."68
            
            In addition to the promotion of these changes in textbooks, Sewall urged that textbooks be adopted in
                    the 
                        United States
                     which would teach the real story of industrial development which came about because of
                    the "successive tides of immigration." According to Sewall, "It is most
                    inconsistent, and to a very large degree futile, for us to meet in peace congresses and discuss with
                    some degree of respect the great nations, and do nothing to abate the mutual ignorance and
                    consequent dislike, not to say hatred, of the representatives of different races in 
                  
                     66
                            Ibid.
                  
                     67
                            Ibid.
                  
                     68 May Wright Sewall, "To the Women's Meeting
                            Convened as Part of the Thirteenth International Peace and Arbitration Congress Assembled at
                            Park Street Church, Wednesday Evening, October 5, 1904," in Official
                                Report of the Thirteenth Universal Peace Congress Held at 
                           Boston, Massachusetts
                        , USA, October Third to Eight, 1904 (
                                Boston
                            , 1904), 132.
               
                     the different cities in which we live." In addition,
                    Sewall urged mothers to remove all toys from nurseries "that bring into a child's
                    mind the thought of military pomp and show, of warfare, with its contentions and its
                        glories."69
            
            Sewall's arguments along with the work of the International Council brought her fame among
                    the peace advocates. In fact, at the four Peace Congresses which were held between 1904 and 1911,
                    Sewall was either a speaker or a guest of honor, representing the International Council and giving
                    an account of the work of nearly eight million women whom she represented.70
            
            When war broke out in 1914, Sewall was dismayed but became more determined than ever to work for
                    peace: "While many distinguished advocates of Peace felt that work for its establishment
                    was inevitably suspended by the war—to me the war seemed a proclamation to the women of
                    the world that some action by them which would assert the solidarity of womanhood was
                        imperative."71 Consequently, she organized and chaired, under the
                    auspices of the Panama-Pacific International Exposition, an International Conference of Women
                    Workers to Promote Permanent Peace. The conference met in July, 1915, and brought together
                    approximately five hundred people from the 
                        United States
                     and eleven foreign countries. The climax of the conference occurred on the sixth and
                    final day with a speech by William Jennings Bryan, who had only recently resigned as secretary of
                    state under President Woodrow Wilson.72
            
            Later Sewall attempted to take matters into her own hands by having a personal interview with
                    President Wilson on November 2, 1915. During this interview, Wilson stated that the 
                        United States
                     could not take any official step toward mediation in the European War or toward
                    organizing a conference for that purpose at that time. Sewall left feeling, however, that Wilson was
                    sympathetic with the plan for informed, unofficial initiatives.73
            
            Later that month Henry Ford invited Sewall to participate in his unofficial peace expedition. She
                    joined it but doubted 
                  
                     69 Sewall, "Woman's Part in the Promotion of
                            Internationalism," 420.
                  
                     70
                            Ibid.
                  
                     71 May Wright Sewall, Women, World War and Permanent
                                Peace (
                                San Francisco
                            , 1915), xii.
                  
                     72
                            Ibid., 177.
                  
                     73 May Wright Sewall to Louis Lochner, January 10, 1916, Telegrams,
                            Letters and Other Papers Relating to the Ford Expedition in 1915 (Indiana Division, Indiana
                            State Library).
               
                     Ford could fulfill his promise "to get the boys out of
                    the trenches by Christmas." All that she expected to accomplish was to divert public
                    attention from war, to stimulate peace workers in every country to renewed efforts, and to deepen
                    the participants' resoluteness in the cause. The mission actually did strengthen the peace
                    movement in neutral European countries, but the press viewed it as a monstrous joke, and the
                    reputations of the participants suffered.74
            
            Once the journey was over, Sewall dropped out of public life. Whether it was from the humiliation of
                    the trip or from her age or poor health (she was now seventy-two) was not known, but between 1916
                    and 1920 no public statement in print or otherwise seems to have been made.
            In 1920, the year of her death, Sewall publicly revealed another dimension of herself. She had, no
                    doubt, used this last five-year period preparing for publication in a new frontier, one which
                    involved her in the strangest aspect of her career—spiritualism.
            Despite the popularity of the spiritualist movement around the turn of the century, Sewall kept her
                    involvement a well-concealed secret until two months before her death. She gave two reasons for
                    maintaining silence over the twenty-five-year period of her experiences. First, those who contacted
                    her from the spirit world urged her not to give messages to the world at that time, and secondly,
                    the few friends (possibly a dozen in all) in whom she confided intimated that she was a victim of a
                    mental delusion. Public discovery of her belief in spiritualism could have destroyed her credibility
                    as a practical reformer. Therefore, she waited until "extreme feebleness" had
                    taken her permanently out of public affairs before revealing her psychic experiences.75
            
            Sewall's book on spiritualism, Neither Dead Nor Sleeping, shocked fellow 
                        Indianapolis
                     residents. As Anton Scherer, a local journalist, recalled: 
                        Nothing rocked the foundations of 
                                Indianapolis
                             quite as much as the appearance of Neither Dead nor
                                Sleeping…. The book, I remember, took everybody 
                        
                           74 Sewall's goals are given in a letter to My Dear
                                    Friends in Hoosierland, December 16, 1915, in "Papers Relating to the Ford
                                    Expedition." Fords plans as well as the reaction of the press are described
                                    in Burnet Hershey, The Odyssey of Henry Ford and the Great Peace
                                    Ship (
                                        New York
                                    , 1967). Merle Curti evaluated the impact of the expedition in Peace or War, 261.
                        
                           75 Elizabeth Morgan, "Mrs. May Wright Sewall Tells of
                                    Talks with Departed Mate," 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Star, May 9, 1920.
                     
                             by surprise for up until that time nobody …
                            had the least idea that Mrs. Sewall was in touch with the spirit world.76
                  
                     Sewall had indeed properly guessed the reaction, but she declared that the book was
                    necessary because there were those who "might obtain from the book some of the sure comfort
                    of knowing the simplicity and naturalness of the life into which they passed from the life of the
                    earth." She also expressed a belief that eventually psychic science would be taught in high
                    schools and universities, just as natural science was then taught.77
            
            Sewall's adventures into the spirit realm began shortly after the death of her second
                    husband, Theodore Sewall, in 1895, but her real conversion to spiritualism occurred at an 1897
                        Chautauqua meeting at 
                  Lily
                        Dale, New York
               , when a
                    "sitting" was arranged for her with a "slate writer." At this
                    sitting, Sewall chose a clean slate that was sponged off and tied it with her own handkerchief. She
                    then held it in her own hands with no other hands touching it. She wrote down questions on
                    "bits of paper that had not passed out of her hands." The answers to these
                    questions were written in the form of a letter on the slate which was opened later in
                    Sewall's hotel room. She explained that she opened the slate expecting to find it bare, but
                    instead found that it was covered with "clear and legible writing," with
                    "perfectly coherent, intelligent and characteristic replies to questions which had been
                    written upon the bits of paper that had not left my hands."78 After
                    this experience, Sewall explained, "I knew as clearly as I now know after twenty-two years
                    of constant study and experimentation that I had, so to speak, acquired actual knowledge, if not of
                    immortality, at least of a survival of death—I had learned that the last enemy is
                    destroyed, in that he can destroy neither being nor identity, nor continuity of
                        relationship."79 From this time, Sewall claimed to have had almost
                    daily communications from her dead husband. Her book also described piano lessons by the recently
                    deceased master, Anton Rubinstein, and her most unusual recovery from Bright's disease
                    after following the instructions of a medieval priest.80
            
            
               
                  76 Anton Schemer, "Mrs. May Wright Sewall Spirit Talks," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Times, October 16, 1946.
               
                  77 Morgan, "Sewall Tells of Talks with Departed Mate."
               
                  78 Sewall, Neither Dead Nor Sleeping, 9.
               
                  79
                  Ibid., 10.
               
                  80
                        Ibid., passim.
            
            
            In the introduction to Neither Dead Nor Sleeping Booth Tarkington discussed the
                    paradox presented to followers of May Wright Sewall, who suddenly discovered that their unquestioned
                    oracle had been living "on the unknown Sea." Tarkington admitted he found himself
                    in a "condition of astonishment" when Sewall called him to examine her manuscript
                    before its printing. He observed: 
                        It was to me dumbfounding to find that for more than twenty years this academic-liberal of a
                            thousand human activities, Mrs. Sewall, had been really living not with the living so to put
                            it. And as I read, it seemed to me that I had never known so strange a story; and at times,
                            dwelling upon her long struggle to cure her malady, and to make herself a proper messenger
                            for those known to us everyday people as dead, it seemed again that these almost grotesquely
                            painful sacrifices of the flesh were recorded, not of a modern lady of the world, but of
                            some medieval penitent. …
                     Tarkington continued that there was one thing of which there could be no question: Sewall
                    did "put away" a malady pronounced fatal. Nor would anyone who had known Sewall
                    believe that she had intentionally deceived herself during the long experience with
                    "supernatural beings." Tarkington concluded that her experiences either were
                    authentic or a mysterious product of her own subconscious.81
            
            When the public learned of Sewall's involvement in spiritualism, it was not as kind as Booth
                    Tarkington. This strange activity quickly overshadowed thirty years of work in education and
                    women's rights. The image of the frail old woman who fasted according to the directions of
                    a priest from the Middle Ages and pounded away at a piano chosen for her by Rubinstein was too
                    potent to overcome the image of a strong-willed woman who had fought for equality and justice.82
            
            This fact perhaps explains why Sewall's place in Crown Hill Cemetery in 
                        Indianapolis
                     is not as well known as those of her two friends and contemporaries, Benjamin Harrison
                    and James Whitcomb Riley. Nonetheless, as the field of women's history is further explored
                    the work of Sewall and other forgotten reformers will emerge as real and significant monuments. The
                    truest estimate of Sewall is found in what Booth Tarkington described as "the longing in
                    all humility, to be of great help to the world."83
            
            
               
                  81
                        Ibid., [xx].
               
                  82 Scherrer, "Mrs. May Wright Sewall Spirit Talks."
               
                  83 Sewall, Neither Dead Nor Sleeping, [xxii].
            
         
         
         
            Water Over Water: Hoosier Canal Culverts, 1832–1847
            
                    Dennis K. McDaniel*
               
                
            A modern student of nineteenth-century technology once observed that the technology of canals has
                    been their least-studied aspect.1 Works on canals have examined their politics,
                    financing, folklore, and economic impact but nearly ignored technical matters. This paper treats the
                    least-studied aspect of this little-studied technology: canal culverts. Though obscure, the topic is
                    important. Culverts were by far the most frequently used devices to get canals past intersecting
                    streams, a vital task without which there could be no canals.
            In the design and construction of a canal there are four primary tasks that an engineer must
                    accomplish: survey a useful route with minimum elevation changes; deal with any unavoidable
                    elevation changes present on the route; guarantee an ample supply of water for the canal; and cross
                    lateral watercourses. The 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, built to connect Lake Erie with the Wabash River,
                    followed the relatively flat valleys of the Maumee and the 
                        Wabash
                    . The much shorter Whitewater Canal in southeastern Indiana connected the east-central
                    part of the state at the National Road with the Ohio River. Necessary changes
                    in elevation on these canals were effected by locks which sealed one elevation from another and
                    which served to pass canal boats up or down. The generally low relief of the
                    Maumee, Wabash, and Whitewater
                    valleys meant that no tunnels were required in Indiana, although the Whitewater extension to 
                        Cincinnati
                     went through one ridge. The numerous tributaries generally provided ample supplies of
                    water, with occasional exceptions during the dry summer months. All of 
                  
                     * Dennis K. McDaniel is director of the Peale Museum in
                                    
                        Baltimore, Maryland
                     .
                  
                     1 Brooke Hindle, Technology in Early America: Needs and
                                Opportunities for Study (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , 1966), 56.
               
                    
                    
                  Map prepared by Cathryn L. Lombardi.
               
                     these aspects of canal construction have frequently been
                    discussed because of their political and economic implications or because of the interesting
                    technical problems they present.
            The last engineering problem faced by the builder was to carry the canal across lateral streams,
                    ensuring either separation or controlled mingling of the two lines of water. This subject apparently
                    has seldom been the subject of historical research; certainly no published research exists for
                        Indiana.2 On the rare occasions that scholars have studied stream-crossing
                    on other canals, they have given their attention to aqueducts.3 Yet these,
                    interesting as they are, constitute only a small percentage of canal stream-crossing structures for
                    the simple reason that most watercourses are too small to merit such elaborate water-bridges.
                    Indiana's 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie, for example, from the 
                        Ohio
                     state line over the 195.5 miles of the 1847 survey used in this study, crossed over or
                    through 159 watercourses and only ten required aqueducts. The canal crossed five streams in
                    slack-water pools formed by dams, but the remaining 144 crossings utilized culverts.4
            
            It is the problem of canal culverts in Indiana in the period 1832–1847 which is examined
                    here. The methods used to carry Indiana canals of the 1830s and 1840s across lateral streams are
                    surveyed and discussed. Three distinctly different kinds of data are used: archival materials from
                    the 1830s showing with 
                  
                     2 For example, Paul Fatout, Indiana Canals (
                                West Lafayette
                            , Ind., 1972), has no discussion of culverts, and Dora T. Mayhill, Old 
                                    Wabash
                                 and Erie Canal in 
                                    Carroll County
                                
                      (
                                Knightstown
                            , Ind., 1953) mentions two culverts only in passing. An exception, dealing with
                            the eastern 
                                United States
                            , is Thomas F. Hahn, Towpath Guide to the Chesapeake and 
                                    Ohio
                                 Canal (4 parts; Shepherdstown, W.V., 1971–1978), which
                            measures and describes extant culverts and all other structures and features on that canal.
                            This work has been published in various editions. A survey of The 
                                    Franklin
                                 Journal and the Journal of the 
                                    Franklin
                                 Institute, 1826–1846, reveals numerous articles on American
                            canals but nothing on culverts.
                  
                     3 Culverts and aqueducts may be differentiated as follows: a culvert
                            is a stone, wood, concrete, or metal tube carrying water under or through the foundation of
                            a right-of-way, while an aqueduct is a bridge carrying water over an essentially undisturbed
                            stream, railroad, or road. A stone arch culvert may be thought of as a very wide, (usually)
                            single-span stone bridge of the type which has existed since antiquity. 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal aqueducts were not sophisticated stone bridges reflecting
                            late-eighteenth-century French engineering advances. Rather, they used simple wooden
                            channels (trunks) which were supported by stone piers and roofed like covered bridges.
                  
                     4 Jesse L. Williams, "Report of the Chief Engineer
                            Descriptive of the Condition of the Canal at the Commencement of the Trust,"
                            included in "Annual Report of the Trustees of the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal, to the General Assembly of the State of Indiana, December,
                            1847," in Indiana, Documents of the General Assembly…. (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1848), 213–37.
               
                     what presuppositions a canal engineer approached the problem; a
                    canal survey report of 1847 showing what was actually constructed on one Indiana waterway during the
                    first round of culvert building; and the results of a recent on-site examination of one particularly
                    well preserved but typical Indiana canal culvert from 1840. These data permit a coherent survey of
                    canal culvert technology in one state during a fifteen-year period of canal construction.
            The Hoosier state is an apt subject for such a study because it was far enough west to benefit from
                    the ideas and practices that had earlier been developed in the older part of the nation. Little
                    additional canal building was done west of Indiana, as the entire transportation method was soon
                    rendered economically unviable by the railroad. The men who thought about, designed, and supervised
                    the building of Indiana's canals were themselves the inheritors of several decades of
                    accumulated experience and informal education. But the engineers are not the main focus here; beyond
                    a few names and references to earlier canal experience in states further east, one will find little
                    about the men.5 Canal culvert technology has center stage.
            Nothing can be imagined that is more prosaic than a modern culvert. The simple task of passing
                    relatively small quantities of water under rights-of-way is now inconspicuously managed by metal or
                    pre-cast concrete tubes. In the 1830s, however, at the time Indiana canals were begun, engineers
                    gave substantial attention to the design and installation of culverts, and they developed rules to
                    help them decide when to install a culvert in preference to other structures.
            The engineering records of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie, Indiana's longest canal, have apparently been lost, but the Indiana
                    Commission on Public Records holds the notebooks and drawings of M.S. Webb, an engineer in about
                    1836–1840 on the Whitewater Canal, then under construction.6 The
                    narrative 
                  
                     5 The best background on the men is David Hovey Calhoun's The American Civil Engineer: Origins and Conflict (
                        Cambridge, Mass.
                     , 1960). Jesse L. Williams (1807–1886) is virtually
                            the only Indiana engineer about whom information is available: see Calhoun, American Civil Engineer, 48, 80, 149–51, 217; Dumas Malone, ed., Dictionary of American Biography (20 vol., 
                                New York
                            , 1928–1936), XX, 268–69; Charles R. Poinsatte, 
                        
                                    Fort Wayne
                                 During the Canal Era, 1828–1855 (Indiana Historical
                            Collections, Vol. XLVI; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1969), 39–40; and Charles B. Stuart, Lives and Works
                                of Civil and Military Engineers of America (
                                New York
                            , 1871), 141–69.
                  
                     6 Specifications for Masonry; M.S. Webb Excavation Book; and
                            Engineer's Pocketbook 1837–1840, in Whitewater Canal Papers (Indiana
                            Commission on
               
                     sections of his notebooks include guidelines that amount to a
                    canal-builder's handbook. The drawings provide additional information on dimensions and
                    bills of material. Stone-arch culverts are emphasized and wooden culverts slighted. All information
                    is general and not identified with specific sites where culverts were to be built.
            
               
                        Ohio
                     and the older eastern states were the fonts of knowledge for Indiana canal builders.
                    Webb noted, for example, that he had obtained much of his information, especially that on hydraulic
                    calculations, from an 
                        Ohio
                     engineer named Cooper. Similarly, Jesse L. Williams, Indiana's chief engineer
                    for all internal improvements and author of the important 1847 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie survey, had come to Indiana from the 
                        Ohio
                     canal system in 1832.7
            
            M.S. Webb gave his canal rules in narrative form under three headings: (1) General Rules for Crossing
                    Streams; (2) Culverts; and (3) Arched Culverts. The treatment was not systematic. Table I summarizes
                    the solutions he recommended. Note that he did not offer a rule for some cases, but in others he
                    suggested two or three possibilities.
            Under "General Rules," Webb described how a canal is to be carried across
                    watercourses according to the varying sizes of the streams. He divided them into three classes
                    according to the maximum amount of water each carried when in flood.8
                    
                  Public Records, Indiana State Library Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ). My thanks to Steve Novak for their initial survey. M.S. Webb, Culvert
                            Drawings (Indiana Commission on Public Records). Webb's exact job title remains
                            unclear, and little is known about him. He was apparently one of the twelve resident
                            engineers, seven senior assistant engineers, or eleven junior assistant engineers reportedly
                            at work on the Whitewater in 1837; see James M. Miller, "The Whitewater
                            Canal," Indiana Magazine of History, III (September, 1907),
                            111–12. Simpson Torbet was the Whitewater chief resident engineer, but he died on
                            March 23, 1838, while working on the canal's 
                                Ohio
                             extension; James M. Miller, "The 
                                Richmond
                             and 
                                Brookville
                             Canal," Indiana Magazine of History, I (Fourth
                            Quarter, 1905), 192. The number of engineers on the Whitewater went down from forty-five to
                            three in 1840, when the depression finally reached Indiana. Webb's diary stops
                            then, when he probably lost his job; see Calhoun, American Civil Engineer,
                            141, and Logan Esarey, Internal Improvements in Early Indiana (Indiana
                                Historical Society Publications, Vol. V, No. 2; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1912), 105.
                  
                     7 Williams had surveyed for the Whitewater in 1834; Esarey, Internal Improvements, 93; Poinsatte, 
                        
                                    Fort Wayne
                                 During the Canal Era, 39; Frank Trevorrow, 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                's Canals (n.p., 1973), 72–74. For a discussion of
                            "on the job training" in this field, see Calhoun, American
                                Civil Engineer, 47–53.
                  
                     8 There are other ways of thinking about the problem. The French
                            engineer Joseph-Mathieu Sganzin, for example, described the possibilities as passage of the
                            other stream over, under, or through the canal. The ‘over’ solution
                            was neither discussed nor carried out in Indiana. Joseph-Mathieu Sganzin, Programme ou Resumé des Leçons d'un Cours de
                                Constructions, 4th ed. (3 vols.,
               
                    
                    
                  JESSE L. WILLIAMS
                  
                  Reproduced from Jacob Piatt Dunn, Indiana and Indianans. A History of Aboriginal
                                and Territorial Indiana and the Century of Statehood (
                                Chicago
                            . 1919). 390
                The smallest, Class 1, could be accommodated at flood by a semicircular culvert of
                    four-foot chord or span (6.3 square feet in cross-section). The largest, Class 3, had a maximum flow
                    greater than could be passed through a semicircular arch of thirty-foot span (353 square feet in
                    cross-section). Between these extremes fell the middling creeks, which represented the vast majority
                    of all streams encountered in Indiana canal building. For these middle-size (Class 2) watercourses
                    Webb recommended passing the water under the canal by means of a culvert or set of culverts, an
                    answer which, as Table I shows, he recommended less frequently for the largest and smallest streams.
            
               
                  
                            Paris
                        , 1839–1841), II, 128. A modern irrigation canal treatise says,
                        "Storm and drainage water must be controlled to prevent erosion of the uphill canal
                        bank, and accompanying silting of the canal prism. Storm and drainage water must have either:
                        (1) controlled entrance into the canal through a drain inlet; (2) controlled conveyance over the
                        canal in an overchute; (3) controlled conveyance under the canal through a culvert, or (4) the
                        canal must be routed under the cross-drainage channel in a siphon." The last is of
                        course not possible on a navigation canal. U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of
                        Reclamation, Design of Small Canal Structures (
                            Denver
                        , 1978), 179.
            
            
            
               TABLE I: Solutions for Crossing Lateral Streams with a Canal
               
                  Stream Class
                  Stream Bed Well Below Canal Level
                  Stream Bed Near Canal Level
               
               
                  Suitable Stone Available
                  Suitable Stone Not Available
                  Clear Water
                  Sediment-laden Water
               
               
                  Water Required*
                  
                  Not Required
                  Water Required
                  Not Required
                  Water Required
                  Not Required
                  Water Required
                  Not Required
               
               
                  1. Less water than that passed by a 4 ft. arch. (less than 6.3 ft.2
                            cross-section)
                  B
                  C1 C2
                  B
                  C2
                  B
                  B C2
                  B**
                  
                  C2
               
               
                  2a. Water passed by an arch of 4–12 ft. (6.3 ft.2-56.5
                                ft.2 cross-section)
                  C1**
                  
                  C1 C2
                   
                  C2
                   
                  C2
                   
                  C2 D
               
               
                  2b. Water passed by an arch of 12–30 ft. (56.5–353 ft.2 cross-section)
                  C1***
                  
                  C1
                  C4*** D
                  C4
                  D
                  D
                  D
                  D
               
               
                  3. Water requiring an arch of over 30 ft. span. (greater than 353 ft.2
                            cross-section)
                  A D
                  A C1 C3
                  D
                  C4 D
                  D
                  D
                  D
                  D
               
            
            
               SOURCE: Specifications for Masonry, in Whitewater Canal Papers, Indiana Commission on Public
                        Records, Indiana State Library Building, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               
                  * Sites where engineer calculated additional water was needed
                        for canal
               
                  ** If basin is large
               
                  *** With separate feeder
               Abbreviations: 
                     
                        A
                        Aqueduct
                     
                     
                        B
                        Pass stream into canal
                     
                     
                        C1
                        Culvert, stone arch
                     
                     
                        C2
                        Culvert, wooden box
                     
                     
                        C3
                        Culvert, multiple stone arches
                     
                     
                        C4
                        Culvert, wooden arch or arches
                     
                     
                        D
                        Dam and pool
                     
                  
               
            
            
            The arrangements designed to cover the mid-range conditions, Classes 2a and 2b in Table I, received
                    most of Webb's attention, but before examining them in detail it may be best to place them
                    in context by examining Webb's solutions for the largest and smallest streams. In most
                    cases he recommended letting the small Class 1 brooks flow directly into the canal, avoiding the
                    trouble and cost of any elaboration at all. His only proviso in such cases was that a sufficient
                    number of waste weirs or overflow outlets be provided nearby so excess water might leave the canal
                    without damaging the banks. If the stream carried so much sand or gravel that it might tend to fill
                    the canal, he indicated that a small culvert should be built to pass the water under the canal.
            At the upper end of the scale, Webb wrote that large streams and rivers of Class 3 ought to be
                    crossed by aqueducts because these provided the surest navigation. He described an aqueduct as an
                    especially happy solution when the stream had high banks and the canal therefore passed far above
                    the stream bed. But an aqueduct required that adequate building materials—stone for the
                    piers and wood for the trunk—be close to the site, a distance Webb defined as no more
                    than six to ten miles.9 If a feeder (additional supply of water for the canal)
                    was necessary or desirable on that section of the canal, a dam could be built on the downstream side
                    of the canal crossing, and the canal itself conducted through the pool formed by the dam. In that
                    case the problem of carrying the towpath over the pool had to be resolved with a towpath bridge,
                    rope ferry, or horse ferry.
            When a culvert was the answer, Webb prescribed two distinctly different types depending upon the
                    circumstances: if the culvert could be set very low in its stream bed and if the size of the stream
                    fell toward the lower end of Class 2 (maximum flow passable through a twelve-foot chord semicircular
                    culvert), he recommended an inexpensive wooden rectangular culvert, placed low so as to be
                    permanently under water. Because wood deteriorates when not completely submerged, it was important
                    that not only the bottom, but also the 18–36-inch sides and the horizontal top, be kept
                    under water. This required a nice calculation to assure that there would be sufficient water to
                    maintain this cover, and frequently a small dam was placed across the stream just below the culvert
                    to maintain the water 
                  
                     9 Webb did not mention all-stone aqueducts, although in the East there
                            were many, with arches up to ninety feet; Hahn, Guide to C & O,
                            passim.
               
                     depth.10 On the other hand, the culvert had
                    to be open enough and to have great enough capacity to handle even spring floods so that the water
                    would not back up and damage or erode the canal embankment. If a wooden rectangular culvert was not
                    suitable because the stream was larger in flood than a twelve-foot arch could handle, or if the
                    stream bed was so far below the level of the canal that insertion of a low, wooden rectangular
                    culvert would leave a high, exposed bank, Webb prescribed a stone arch or in rare circumstances a
                    wooden arch.
            The guidelines found in Webb's manuscripts may be compared with Jesse L. Williams's
                    report of the actual structures found on the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie in 1847. Williams examined minutely all the structures on the 189 miles of the
                    canal that had been built since 1832, from the 
                        Ohio
                     line to near Coal Creek south of 
                        Covington
                    , Indiana, as well as the 6.5 mile 
                        St. Joseph
                     feeder.11 Except for infrequent remarks on the condition of the
                    bank, he concentrated on the dams, bridges, aqueducts, culverts, locks, and waste
                    weirs—the "works of art," in the terminology of the time.
            Williams's report is organized differently than Webb's Whitewater notebooks.
                    Williams did not state the quantity of water or flow rate of each stream, nor did he indicate the
                    probable flows in flood-time. He simply reported the location, dimension, and condition of the
                    mechanical structures that he found on the canal. From these data one can only surmise the relative
                    size of each stream from the dimensions of the structure erected upon it, precisely the opposite
                    approach from Webb's a priori classification explained above. There can,
                    therefore, be no precise ranking of stream size on the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie that would strictly parallel Webb's Whitewater classifications. The
                    general size of the streams crossed by the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie can be estimated from the 1847 report, but erroneous deductions could be
                    drawn, as, for example, in cases where large arches or even aqueducts might have been put up, not
                    for the quantity of water that they could handle, but to gain height for the canal bed.12
            
            
               
                  10 A similar small dam, which was used in conjunction with a stone arch
                        culvert, appears incidentally in Fig. 3. It ensures that water will cover the horizontal wooden
                        foundation that underlies the spring points and entire stream bed at this stone arch site.
               
                  11 For a map of the 
                            St. Joseph
                         feeder, see Poinsatte, 
                     
                                Fort Wayne
                             During the Canal Era, 42.
               
                  12 Canal hydraulic arrangements could not be fixed permanently. As
                        settlers cleared the Wabash Valley lands the quantity of runoff increased
                        and its timing changed. Williams commented that greater spring floods occurred as the
            
            
            Williams concentrated on the elaborate structures and did not necessarily mention the very small
                    brooks of Class 1 that simply flowed into the canal. He did mention the location of moveable-gate
                    waste weirs, and since there were only four or five on the canal not accounted for by proximity to
                    large feeders, one may deduce that there were probably not many other small streams that simply
                    flowed into the canal.13 Only three non-urban culverts of less than 6.3 square
                    feet of cross section (Webb's Class 1) were found on the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie in 1847; such other streamlets as may have existed at that time apparently fed
                    into the canal. Even the four or five weirs mentioned may not have had any purpose other than
                    general control of water depth since they were used also to drain a canal level whenever maintenance
                    was required.
            Williams's report provides complete coverage only for larger streams. Selection of a
                    particular culvert dimension did not necessarily imply a stream of a certain size—there
                    was simply too much latitude, as the rules in Webb's Table I show and as the empirically
                    derived information in Table II indicates. The latter provides a breakdown of the classes and types
                    of culverts on the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie in 1847, classifying all the lateral watercourses that Williams thought worth
                    mentioning and providing totals by type and size.
            The rarer culvert installations—stone arches, multiple wooden boxes, and wooden
                    arches—occur in a variety of sizes, but they are infrequent in the smaller categories.
                    These relatively complicated styles, however, along with aqueducts and dadpool crossings, appear at
                    all locations providing more than 40 square feet of cross-sectional capacity.14
                    This is no surprise and merely confirms the common-sense expectation that the 
                  valley was settled, while summertime flows decreased noticeably; Williams,
                            "Report of the Chief Engineer," 215. The result was that over time canal
                            mechanical structures might have to be enlarged, combined, or abandoned.
                  
                     13 A search produced no photos of waste gates or weirs from Indiana,
                            but for photos of a weir from the East see William J. McKelvey, Jr., The 
                                    Delaware
                                 & Raritan Canal: A Pictorial History (York, Pa., 1975), 41.
                  
                     14 No detailed descriptions, drawings, or photos of wooden arches have
                            been unearthed. The clearest information appears in Williams's description
                            ("Report of the Chief Engineer," 222) of culvert number 36 over Cow Creek
                            in eastern 
                                Huntington County
                            : "This is a large wooden arch of 18 feet chord, semicirc[u]lar. A
                            structure of this size and shape could not be submerged, and the arch timbers have therefore
                            been exposed to the air. Experience shows however, that timber thus situated under a moist
                            bank of earth, is not subject to rapid decay, and it is beqileved that this arch may stand 3
                            or 4 years longer, when it should be rebuilt of cut stone. The head walls will need some
                            repairs within two years."
               
                    
                    
                  TABLE II: Frequency and Method of Crossing Lateral Streams, 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal in Indiana, 1847
                  
                     Cross-section (ft.2)
                     Single Wooden Rectangle (1)
                     Multiple Wooden Rectangle (2)
                     Single Wooden Arch (3)
                     Multiple Wooden Arch (4)
                     Stone Arch (5)
                     Multiple Stone Arch (6)
                     Aqueduct (7)
                     Dam and Pool (8)
                     Totals (9)
                  
                  
                     0–10
                     29*
                     
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     29
                  
                  
                     11–20
                     52
                     …
                     1
                     …
                     3
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     56
                  
                  
                     21–30
                     11
                     5
                     1
                     …
                     5
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     22
                  
                  
                     31–40
                     3
                     5
                     1
                     …
                     1
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     10
                  
                  
                     41–50
                     …
                     3
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     3
                  
                  
                     51–60
                     …
                     1
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     1
                  
                  
                     61–70
                     …
                     1
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     1
                  
                  
                     71–80
                     …
                     2
                      
                     …
                     1
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     3
                  
                  
                     81–90
                     …
                     4
                     …
                     …
                     1
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     5
                  
                  
                     91–100
                     …
                     2
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     1
                     …
                     …
                     3
                  
                  
                     101–200
                     …
                     4
                     1
                     1
                     1
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     7
                  
                  
                     201–300
                     …
                     1
                     2
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     3
                  
                  
                     301–400
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     1
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     1
                  
                  
                     Unknown, large
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     10**
                     
                     5
                     15
                  
                  
                     Total
                     95
                     28
                     6
                     1
                     13
                     1
                     10
                     5
                     159
                  
               
               
                  SOURCE: Jesse L. Williams, "Report of the Chief Engineer Descriptive of the
                            Condition of the Canal at the Commencement of the Trust," included in
                            "Annual Report of the Trustees of the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal, to the General Assembly of the State of Indiana, December,
                            1847," in Indiana, Documents of the General Assembly…. (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1848), 219–36.
                  NOTES: * Six were less than 6.3 ft.2 in
                            cross-section.
                  
                     ** Spans ranged from 28 to 200 feet, heights
                            above streams unknown, capacity therefore cannot be calculated.
               
                     larger the river crossed, the more sophisticated the
                    engineering solution required. Conversely, Table II implies that wherever possible the engineer
                    chose the cheapest and simplest device that he thought would work, with the result that wooden
                    rectangular boxes, single or multiple, carried the canal over three-quarters of the streams, and
                    even over some of apparently large dimension.
            Table III amplifies column 2 of Table II by showing how many openings or elements there were at the
                    twenty-eight streams where multiple-box rectangular wooden culverts were built.15 In some instances these were sizeable installations, as much as 72 feet wide.16 Wooden rectangular culverts were low and flat, typical dimensions being 10 by 1.5 feet,
                    or 12 by 3 feet in each element. For wooden culverts Webb specified a length of 94 feet under the
                    canal, exclusive of head or wing walls, 6 feet longer than the stone arch culvert tubes which
                    normally had much more elaborate protective head and wing walls. Probably the two types similarly
                    varied in length on the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie.
            Metal was rarely used on the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie except in the fittings of the lock gates. However, four rectangular wooden
                    culverts (numbers 112–115) between 
                        Delphi
                     and Americus were banded with iron straps to give them added strength against upward
                    pressure when the nearby Wabash River was high. On older canals in the East,
                    iron had sometimes been used for the entire body of the culvert.17
            
            There also was a certain variety among stone culverts. One stone culvert, described only as
                    "small," was rectangular. For convenience it has been grouped with the smallest
                    wooden culverts in Table II. And one stone arch culvert had double arches, each eleven feet in
                        span.18 From a similar extant double culvert in 
                        Ohio
                     and from Webb, it is clear that both arches 
                  
                     15 Multiple wooden culverts were not mentioned by Webb, either in
                            rectangular or arch form. He did say, however, that it was possible to substitute a wooden
                            semicircular arch for a stone one where that form was required but no suitable stone was
                            available.
                  
                     16 Culvert number 14, made of six 12-by-3-fwt elements, just west of
                                    
                        New Haven, Allen County
                     , carrying Six Mile Creek; Williams,
                            "Report of the Chief Engineer," 220.
                  
                     17 Williams, "Report of the Chief Engineer," 231;
                                A View of the Grand Canal [Erie Canal] from Lake Erie to
                                the Hudson River (
                                New York
                            , 1825), 13.
                  
                     18 Webb's table of proportions and materials included
                            provisions for such structures. See Tables V and VI where they are denoted, e.g., 10+10. For
                            a larger 1843 twin stone arch at Turtle Creek, 
                        Shelby
                                    County, Ohio
                     ,
                            twenty-two feet in each span, still standing but in danger of imminent collapse, see
                            Trevorrow, 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                's Canals, 51.
               
                    
                    
                  TABLE III: Frequency of Culvert Sites with Multiple Wooden Rectangular Openings, 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal in Indiana, 1847
                  
                     Total Cross-Section of Culvert at each Site (ft.2)
                     Number of Openings
                  
                  
                     2
                     3
                     4
                     5
                     6
                  
                  
                     21–30
                     5
                      
                      
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     31–40
                     4
                      
                      
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     41–50
                     3
                      
                      
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     51–60
                     1
                      
                      
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     61–70
                     1
                      
                      
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     71–80
                     2
                      
                      
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     81–90
                     1
                     4
                      
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     91–100
                     1
                     1
                      
                      
                      
                  
                  
                     101–200
                     …
                     1
                     2
                     1
                      
                  
                  
                     201–300
                     …
                     …
                      
                      
                     1
                  
                  
                     Totals
                     18
                     6
                     2
                     1
                     1
                  
               
               
                  SOURCE: Jesse L. Williams, "Report of the Chief Engineer Descriptive of the
                            Condition of the Canal at the Commencement of the Trust," included in
                            "Annual Report of the Trustees of the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal, to the General Assembly of the State of Indiana, December,
                            1847," in Indiana, Documents of the General Assembly…. (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1848), 219–36.
                were erected on a common foundation and formed one structure. The only other deviation from
                    standard types on the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie was a small stone arch that sprang from vertical stone walls 2.5 feet high.19 In later years, this form was very common under railroads.
            Greater detail on the stone culverts listed in columns 5 and 6 of Table II is provided in Table IV,
                    but in this table they are listed in geographical order westward from the 
                        Ohio
                     border, the numbering method that Williams used. The remarks column shows that during
                    the initial round of construction, until about 1840, almost all stone arches were built of rough
                    material and displayed poor workmanship. The Burnett's Creek arch (number 1001, built ca.
                    1839–1840, is the earliest arch of over ten-foot span described as still in sound
                    condition in 1847. The other three of that size then in good condition+ ulvert number 1 on the 
                        St. Joseph
                     feeder and canal culverts 73 and 88—had been built or rebuilt just before
                    the survey was made; obviously 
                  
                     19 There are a few examples on the C & 0; see Hahn, Guide to C & O, Section 4, miles 114.21–121.19.
               
                    
                    
                  TABLE IV: Stone Arch Culverts, 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal in Indiana, 1847
                  
                     Culvert Number
                     Span (ft.)
                     Cross-Section (ft.2)
                     Location
                     Williams's Remarks
                  
                  
                     1*
                     
                     13.5
                     72
                     Beckett's Run
                     cut stone, new excellent [built 1845]
                  
                  
                     27
                     6
                     14
                     Ewing's Warehouse
                     good condition
                  
                  
                     48
                     6
                     29
                      
                     2.5 R. abutments
                  
                  
                     54
                     11 ea.
                     95
                     Lagro Creek
                     not of durable quality
                  
                  
                     60
                     8
                     25
                      
                     rough stone; badly constructed
                  
                  
                     61
                     8
                     25
                      
                     rough stone; imperfectly built
                  
                  
                     63
                     6
                     14
                      
                     rough stone; material and workmanship imperfect
                  
                  
                     73
                     15
                     88
                     La Fontaine's Creek
                     recently rebuilt from 
                                    Georgetown
                                 cut stone; stone excellent; arch perfect
                  
                  
                     76
                     8
                     25
                      
                     rough stone
                  
                  
                     78
                     6
                     14
                      
                     rough stone; imperfect
                  
                  
                     87
                     8
                     25
                      
                     rough stone; imperfect
                  
                  
                     88
                     10
                     39
                      
                     built last winter of 
                                    Georgetown
                                 stone; excellent
                  
                  
                     100
                     20
                     157
                     Burnett's Creek
                     hammer-dressed stone; good repair except ring stones
                  
                  
                     132
                     30
                     353
                     Bear Creek
                     very soft cut sandstone; some doubt of durability; workmanship appears good.
                  
               
                    
                  SOURCE: Jesse L. Williams, "Report of the Chief Engineer Descriptive of the
                            Condition of the Canal at the Commencement of the Trust," included in
                            "Annual Report of the Trustees of the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal, to the General Assembly of the State of Indiana, December,
                            1847," in Indiana, Documents of the General Assembly…. (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1848), 219–36.
                  NOTE: * on 
                                St. Joseph
                             feeder; all others on canal itself.
                the first versions had been inadequate or they would not have been replaced.
                    Williams's report is peppered with statements alluding to the poor quality of the work, the
                    insecurity of the arches, and the need to rebuild a number of them soon with good cut stone.
            The tension between the two opposing philosophies of building quickly and cheaply in order to get the
                    canal into service, or building securely of good stone from the outset, had long been a feature of
                    American canal building. In general, the first method implied construction of locks, culverts, dams,
                    and aqueducts from wood, with the goal of quickly opening the canal and using the revenues generated
                    from operations to  rebuild with stone or to renew repeatedly
                    with wood. Undercapitalized projects relied on this strategy, and immigrant engineers thought it a
                    typically New World trait. But these engineers saw it less as a result of capital shortage than as a
                    psychological characteristic of Americans, a part of the feverish activity of the new 
                        United States
                    .
            Whether undercapitalization or mere hyperactivity caused the American proclivity for wooden
                    construction, European-trained engineers preferred to build monumentally, in stone, from the
                    beginning, and they were critical of wood. The immigrant Benjamin Henry Latrobe, trained in 
                        England
                     and 
                        Germany
                    , wrote condescendingly in 1807 and again in 1810 that if his customers wished to build
                    of wood they needed nothing more than a "
                        New England
                     bridge builder."20 For all that, Latrobe did use wood on
                    the canals and other works that he designed.
            Latrobe was long dead when others built the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, but the conflict between the engineer's desire to build in a
                    manner of which he could be proud and the exigencies of capital shortfall or great hurry were still
                    in evidence in Indiana in the 1830s and 1840s. The problem of financing Indiana's internal
                    improvements lies beyond the scope of this paper, but funds were short, and the people of the
                        Wabash Valley applied great pressure to see that their canal was pushed to
                    rapid completion.21
            
            One very practical problem was obtaining suitable stone. When he was building the Chesapeake and 
                        Delaware
                     Canal feeder in 
                        Maryland
                     in 1804, Latrobe had had part of the canal dug and filled with water and then used the
                    completed section to transport stone.22 A similar method was used on the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie. This canal did not reach a source of suitable stone until it came to the 
                        Georgetown
                     quarry in 
                        Cass County
                    . As a result, until that source of good stone was reached southwest of 
                        Logansport
                    , wooden culverts went up quickly at sites where they could not long endure or rough
                    stone arches were thrown 
                  
                     20 Quoted in Darwin H. Stapleton, ed., The Engineering
                                Drawings of Benjamin Henry Latrobe (
                                New Haven
                            , 1980), 26–27, 64–65.
                  
                     21 Consider the following from 1845: "Having lived for the
                            last seven years in a community whose only sentiment and only hope was the completion of
                            this canal … every possible effort was made to hurry forward the work.
                            … "; Jos. H. Nelson, "Report of the Chief Engineer of the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal," included in "Report of the Superintendent of
                            the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal, to the General Assembly, December 1, 1845," in
                            Indiana, Documents of the General Assembly…. (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1845), 143.
                  
                     22 Stapleton, ed., Engineering Drawings of Latrobe,
                            15.
               
                     up where quality building stone lay too distant to be
                    economically transported by wagon.23 Once the canal reached the 
                        Georgetown
                     quarry, however, stone could be shipped back on the completed canal for distances that
                    had theretofore been uneconomical. Early defective arches and locks could be replaced. The remarks
                    column of Table IV shows that this was done in 1845–1847. Even at that early date,
                    builders shipped stone back as far as LaFontaine's Creek (culvert number 73) in 
                        Miami County
                    , about seventeen miles from 
                        Georgetown
                    .24
            
            The 
                        Georgetown
                     quarry sat beside the canal between culverts 88 and 100. Table IV shows that number 100
                    was not only the earliest large arch still in good shape in 1847, but also that it was the only
                    major arch on the canal built of adequate stone on the first attempt. All the others to that point
                    were either rough and not durable or had been rebuilt just before Williams conducted the survey.
            On the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Williams did not provide specific information on the source of the poor stone
                    used in the arches, although he did comment upon the locks built of inferior
                        stone.25 The raw material for all of these had come from the
                    "Salamania" quarry, and in every instance it was found wanting. The
                    "Salamania" stone locks were distributed over that section of the canal from about
                    the 
                        Huntington
                    -
                        Wabash County
                     line westward to near Peru, or approximately where stone arches 54 through 73 were
                    located (see Table IV and Map). In all probability the unsatisfactory stone used in the culverts on
                    that stretch had come from the same quarry. The "Salamania" quarry was apparently
                    located about where part of the Salamonie Reservoir now stands, between Lagro and the 
                        Wabash
                    -
                        Huntington County
                     line.
            As the foregoing shows, the builders did not easily or quickly accomplish the task of obtaining good
                    stone and employing it in arches on the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie. Few large stone arches existed at any time, and it is remarkable that at
                    least 
                  
                     23 The 
                                Georgetown
                             quarry is now the site of France Park, a 
                                Cass County
                             park located on the property of the former 
                                France
                             Stone Company, Inc. The present hamlet of 
                                Georgetown
                             is 2.5 miles southwest, immediately on the banks of the 
                                Wabash
                            .
                  
                     24 LaFontaine's Creek is now called Edwards Ditch or 
                                Prairie
                             Ditch.
                  
                     25 Williams, "Report of the Chief Engineer,"
                            225–27, concerning Locks 12–20. As late as 1843 not all officials on
                            the canal realized that Salamonie (Lagro) stone was unsuitable. In that year Commissioner
                            Fisher wrote that the St. Mary's aqueduct piers and abutments ought to be rebuilt
                            with stone from "Lagro"; see S. Fisher, "Report of the
                            Commissioner of the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal East of the Tippecanoe River," in
                            Indiana, Documents of the Senate…. (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1843), 20.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 1—BURNETT'S CREEK ARCH, 1974: NORTH PORTAL
                            OF TWENTY FOOT ARCH CARRYING WABASH
                            AND ERIE CANAL OVER BURNETT'S CREEK, CARROLL COUNTY; BUILT 1839–1840
                  Courtesy of Author.
                one of the largest original arches has survived until the present day: culvert number 100,
                    the stone arch that carried the canal over Burnett's Creek in 
                        Carroll County
                     (Fig. 1).26
            
            Nowadays the arch serves as a county road bridge and has been slightly altered and repaired, but in
                    all major respects it stands as it did when completed in 1840.27 It was the
                    second largest arch built on the canal by 1847, and Williams's remarks show that he found
                    it sound but not in perfect condition when it was seven years old. He reported that some of the ring
                    stones on both ends were "soft" and "falling to pieces," just as
                    they are 
                  
                     26 Burrows, Indiana, Quadrangle, 1:24,000, Universal Transverse
                            Mercator Kilometric Grid Coordinates: 363056; located on Towpath Road, 0.33 miles northeast
                            of Lockport, about four miles north of Rockfield on the north side of the Wabash
                                River; Williams, "Report of the Chief Engineer," 229.
                  
                     27 "Structure Inventory and Appraisal Sheet," 
                                Carroll County
                             Bridge Number 26, dated January 12, 1975 [?]. provided by courtesy of Charles
                            J. Ritzler, 
                                Carroll County
                             Surveyor, 
                                Delphi
                            , Indiana.
               
                     today, as shown in the photo of the north face (Fig. 2).28 County workers enveloped the south face in concrete to prevent furthering
                    weakening from the same cause (Fig. 3).29
            
            The recent photographs accompanying this article, when compared with Webb's drawings (Figs.
                    4 and 5), and his data in Tables V and VI (unfortunately fragmentary for twenty-foot arches), show
                    that the engineers built the Burnett's Creek arch upon the same principles and dimensions
                    that Webb prescribed. Further explanation of these tables appears below.
            The casual passerby on Towpath Road today might not even notice the arch. The great 85.5 foot length
                    of the culvert makes it in effect a very wide bridge, and it means that a broad expanse of earth
                    extends far from the road's edge on the south side, concealing the creek below. Only by
                    looking down sharply on the north side of the road can one see the stream below.
            
               FIGURE 2—CRACKED RING STONES, BURNETT'S CREEK ARCH, 1974: COMPRESSION FRACTURES ARE VISIBLE
                        IN RING STONES
                        ON WEST PART
                        OF
                        THE NORTH PORTAL
               
               Courtesy of Author.
            
            
               
                  28 Williams, "Report of the Chief Engineer," 229.
               
                  29 "Structure Inventory Sheet."
            
            
            
               TABLE V: Stone Arch
               
                  Span or chord of Arch (ft.)
                  (1) Lineal ft. under central portion of arch body.
                  (2) Length of timbers in col. (1) (ft.)
                  (3) Lineal ft. under end portions of arch body (near parapet).
                  (4) Length of timbers in col. (3) (ft.)
                  (5) Lineal ft. under wings.
                  (6) Length of timber in col. (5)(ft.)
                  (7) Thickness of timber (in.).
                  (8) Length of ring stones (in.).
                  (9) Depth of ring stones (in.).
                  (10) Thickness of stone in wings— at ends, and next to arch (ft.).
                  (11) Radius of circle of wings (ft.). Cf. Fig. 4, bottom.
                  (12) Length of pilings (ft.).
               
               
                  6
                  80
                  11
                  8
                  18
                  12
                  21
                  9×10
                  18
                  15 or 16
                  …
                  …
                  …
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  10
                   
                   
                  
                   
                   
               
               
                  7
                  80
                  11 1/2
                  8
                  19 1/2
                  14
                  23 1/2
                  …
                  18
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
               
               
                  8
                  80
                  12 1/2
                  8
                  21
                  16
                  25
                  10
                  18
                  16 or 17
                  3
                  …
                  4
               
               
                   
                   
                  12 1/2
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  deep
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  10
                  78
                  15
                  10
                  24
                  16
                  28
                  10
                  18
                  17 or 18
                  2
                  11′ 9″
                  …
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  30
                  deep
                   
                  18
                  3
                   
                   
               
               
                  10+10
                  80
                  28
                  8
                  36
                  18
                  43
                  …
                  …
                  18
                  2
                  …
                  …
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  2
                   
                   
               
               
                  12
                  78
                  17
                  10
                  28
                  4
                  28
                  …
                  21
                  18 or 19
                  2 1/4
                  11′3
                  …
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  16
                  31
                   
                   
                   
                  2 1/4
                  
                  
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  20
                  34 1/2
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  12+12
                  80
                  31 H
                  6
                  37 H
                  
                  6
                  41 1/2
                  9×10
                  …
                  19
                  2 1/4
                  11′9″
                  4
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  14
                  44 1/2
                   
                   
                   
                  3 1/4
                   
                   
               
               
                  14
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  21
                  19 or 20
                  …
                  …
                  …
               
               
                  16
                  74
                  22
                  14
                  35
                  24
                  41
                  …
                  21
                  20 or 21
                  …
                  …
                  …
               
               
                  18
                  76
                  24
                  8
                  31
                  8
                  38
                  10×12
                  24
                  21 or 22
                  2′9″
                  …
                  …
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  22
                  42
                   
                   
                   
                  4′3″
                   
                   
               
               
                  20
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  24
                  22
                  …
                  …
                  …
               
               
                  20+20
                  72
                  48
                  16
                  29
                  16
                  33
                  10×12
                  …
                  21
                  4′0″
                  19″ 10″
                  5
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  28
                  12
                   
                   
                   
                  5′10″
                   
                   
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  40
                  10
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
               
               
                  22
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  27
                  23
                  …
                  …
                  …
               
               
                  24
                  68
                  32
                  20
                  45
                  30
                  52
                  …
                  27
                  23 or 24
                  4′0″
                  25′9″
                  4
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  5′6″
                   
                   
               
               
                  26
                  66
                  36
                  22
                  48
                  32
                  54
                  …
                  27 or 30
                  24 or 25
                  …
                  …
                  …
               
               
                  30
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  30
                  26 or 27
                  …
                  …
                  …
               
               
                  34
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  28 or 30
                  …
                  …
                  …
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  Burnett′s Creek Arch
               
               
                  19 1/4
                  Cols. 1, 3, and 5 add to 120.66 feet.
                   
                  ±44′10″
                   
                  23 1/2
                  …
                  …
                  …
                  …
               
               
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
                  2′7″
                   
               
            
            
               SOURCE: Specifications for Masonry, in Whitewater Canal Papers, and Plan of Culvert
                        … 12 Foot Chord, both at Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana State Library
                        Building, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
            
            
               FIGURE 3—BURNETT'S CREEK ARCH, 1974: THE SOUTH PORTAL IS ENCASED
                        IN CONCRETE. VISIBLE
                        IN
                        THE FOREGROUND IS
                        THE SMALL DAM USED
                        TO KEEP
                        THE WATER OVER
                        THE FOUNDATION TIMBERS UNDER
                        THE ARCH.
               Courtesy of Author.
            
            The height of the arch in relation to the former canal prism is not easy to determine because the
                    road has replaced the canal bed, but Webb's rule called for a minimum of two feet of earth
                    (called puddle) between the top of the arch stones and the bottom of the canal bed, and this gives
                    an indication of the minimum probable elevation of the canal. Note also Webb's comments in
                    Table I, mandating an arch if the bed of the stream to be crossed lay far below the level of the
                    canal. The site at Burnett's Creek suggests this condition. The fact that the engineer
                    there chose a rather large twenty-foot arch, with its attendant ten-foot rise (in addition to stone
                    thickness and puddle), indicates that the desire to gain height may have motivated him.
            Canals sometimes leaked through the stone arches when the clay bed was new.30 The
                    winter photo (Fig. 6) showing 
                  
                     30 Williams, "Report of the Chief Engineer," 228 re culvert number 87, "The arch leaks considerably.
                            …"
               
                    
                    
                  TABLE VI: Bills of Material for Stone Arch Culverts
                  
                     Span or chord of Arch in feet
                     (1) Total foundation timbers (ft.3)
                     (2) Total two-inch oak planking (ft.2.)
                     (3) Stone in arch body (yrds.3).
                     (4) Stone in each wing wall (yds.3)
                     (5) Stone in each parapet (yds.3).
                     (6) Total stone: 1 arch, 2 parapets, 4 wings (yds.3)
                     (7) Puddle (yds.3)
                  
                  
                     6
                     1060
                     350
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     72
                     …
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     240
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     7
                     1170
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                  
                  
                     8
                     1313
                     420
                     72.94
                     5.60
                     2.60
                     100.54
                     …
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     260
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     10
                     1625
                     500
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     131 or
                     150
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     250
                     
                     
                     
                     140
                     
                  
                  
                     10+10
                     …
                     768
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     430
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     12
                     1912
                     520
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     160 or
                     …
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     310
                     
                     
                     
                     190
                     
                  
                  
                     12+12
                     …
                     850
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     252
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     14
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     226
                     …
                  
                  
                     16
                     2590
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     270
                     …
                  
                  
                     20
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     378
                     …
                  
                  
                     20+20
                     …
                     1420
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     600
                     …
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     500
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     22
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     481
                     …
                  
                  
                     24
                     4636
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     553
                     …
                  
                  
                     30
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     …
                     727
                     …
                  
               
               
                  SOURCE: Specifications for Masonry, M.S. Webb Excavation Book, both in Whitewater Canal
                            Papers, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana State Library Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                telltale icicles under the arch proves that more than a century of settling has not
                    eliminated this problem at Burnett's Creek.
            Tables V and VI bring together large amounts of information scattered in Webb's notes and
                    drawings. For comparative purposes data gathered in a recent survey of the accessible parts of the
                    Burnett's Creek arch appear at the bottom of Table V.31 The two tables
                    possess detail that may require patience to 
                  
                     31 The measurements at Burnett's Creek were made in August,
                            1977, and were impeded by the presence of a large coiled snake. Though it was probably a
                            harmless black snake, the author is not herpetologist enough to know whether the creature
                            could be safely overstepped. He wishes to thank his wife and his aunt for holding the tape
                            even in the near presence of the reptile. Canal buff Tom Hahn has pointed out that winter is
                            the best time to explore and photograph old canal beds; in that season one avoids snakes,
                            poison ivy, and foliage.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 4—"CULAVERT 24 FEET CHORD": DRAWINGS
                            BY M.S. WEBB, WHITEWATER CANAL ENGINEER, Ca. 1839
                  Courtesy Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana State Library Building. 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                mine. Columns 1–6 of Table V are best understood in reference to
                    Webb's overhead drawing (lower part of Fig. 4), which shows that the foundation timbers
                    must extend ever wider as one moves out from the arch body toward the end of the spreading wing
                    walls. Notice that in every case (except for possible scribal errors in the 12+12- and 18-foot
                    rows), columns 1 and 3 add to 88 feet, the specified normal length for an arch body. Beyond the
                    basic 88 feet, the extent of the timber foundation is positively correlated with the length and
                    spread of the wing walls, which is in turn positively correlated to the span or chord of the arch.
            To understand this idea, one may take as an example the data for the 12-foot arch, which are
                    interpreted as follows: from 
                    
                  FIGURE 5—"CULVERT. CHORD 8 FEET": DRAWINGS
                            BY M.S. WEBB, WHITEWATER CANAL ENGINEER, Ca. 1839.
                  Courtesy Indiana Commission on Public Records Indiana State Library Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                the inside mid-point of the culvert, 39 feet (half of 78) in each direction was
                    undergirded by foundation timbers 17 feet long laid transversely to the arch body. Then beyond that
                    there were 5 feet under each parapet of timbers 28 feet long, then for 2 more feet there were also
                    28-foot timbers where the wings began to extend from the parapet, then a further 8 feet of 31-foot
                    timbers and finally, for the last 10 feet there were 34.5-foot beams reaching across to support the
                    furthest extremities of the wing walls. In every case the timbers extended completely across the
                    stream and tied together both sides of the arch and both wing walls. The overall result was a large,
                    hourglass-shaped platform of wood supporting all the masonry.
            Figure 7 shows graphically the remarkable survivability and durability of a wooden foundation like
                    this when kept  under water. The faint outlines of two intact
                    beams (among many) appear under the water in this photograph, which looks across and down into
                    Burnett's Creek just outside the north portal of the arch. Inside the arch a continuous
                    timber foundation floor stretches away under the water, with beams like those faintly visible in the
                    photograph.
            Webb did not amplify certain bits of data contained in Tables V and VI. For example, builders
                    apparently drove the pilings listed in Column 12 of Table V only near the ends of the horizontal
                    foundation timbers. Figures 4 and 5 at least lead to that conclusion.
            Also unclear are the two quantitites Webb gave for the two-inch oak planking (Table VI, column 2).
                    Apparently these two numbers are added in each case, since elsewhere he said that a ten-foot arch
                    required 750 square feet of oak planking. Figures 4 and 5 show that these were laid on top of the
                    foundation beams in order to provide a perfectly flat surface from which to spring the arch and
                    raise the wing walls.
            
               FIGURE 6—BURNETT'S CREEK ARCH, 1974: VIEW LOOKING
                            NORTH
                        FROM WATER LEVEL INSIDE
                        THE ARCH, SHOWING ICICLES
                        AND COURSES
                        OF STONE
               
               Courtesy of Author.
            
            
            
               FIGURE 7—FOUNDATION TIMBERS
                            UNDER WATER, BURNETT'S
                            CREEK ARCH, 1974: LOOKING DOWN
                        AND EASTWARD ACROSS BURNETT'S CREEK, ABOUT FIVE FEET NORTH
                        OF NORTH PORTAL; THE
                            EDGES
                        OF TWO TIMBERS
                        CAN
                        BE DISCERNED
               
               Courtesy of Author.
            
            As is well known, the Indiana canal system was an economic failure. The large sums expended upon it
                    were not recouped directly in tolls and fees and probably not indirectly in economic benefits,
                    although the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie did for a time lower the shipping costs of Hoosier farm products headed for
                    market. This brief period of efflorescence was from about 1847 until 1856.32 The
                    much shorter Whitewater provided some of the same benefits on an even more modest scale in about the
                    same period.
            The principal purpose of this paper has been to describe and summarize canal culvert technology of
                    the mid-nineteenth century. A second purpose has been to draw attention to the historical value and
                    aesthetic appeal of a little-known but impressive 
                  
                     32 Elbert Jay Benton, The 
                                    Wabash
                                 Trade Route in the Development of the Old Northwest (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1903), 76. This book's evaluation of the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie's economic impact has not been surpassed.
               
                     monument to early Indiana engineering. The Burnett's
                    Creek arch stands and serves—cared for by 
                        Carroll County
                     and marked by the 
                        Carroll County
                     Historical Society—as a valued physical reminder of early canal development
                    in Indiana during the era of the internal improvements mania.
         
         
         
            Joseph Neef: Innovator or Imitator?
            
                    Dieter Jedan*
               
                
            Like much of early American culture, this nation's nineteenth-century educational writings,
                    theories, and practices borrowed heavily from their European counterparts. Johann Heinrich
                    Pestalozzi (1746–1827), Swiss writer, teacher, and educational philosopher, exerted a
                    particularly strong influence on American educators.1 Above all others
                    Pestalozzi's student, Francis Joseph Nicholas Neef, who served as principal of Robert
                    Owen's schools in 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, played a major role in introducing Pestalozzian teaching methods in the 
                        United States
                    . Possibly because most American educational historians have interpreted Neef's
                    methods as imitations of those developed by Pestalozzi, scholars have labelled him the earliest
                    American practitioner of Pestalozzian pedagogy.2 As a result, Neef's
                    role as an innovator in the fields of American educational theory and practice long has been
                    overlooked.
            
               
                  * Dieter Jedan is Assistant Professor of German and Supervisor
                        of Teaching Assistants, Department of Germanic Languages, University of 
                     California, Los
                            Angeles
                  .
               
                  1 William Maclure (1763–1840), geologist and philanthropist,
                        learned of Pestalozzian teaching methods from his French friends, who also introduced him to
                        Neef in 1806. Through private philanthropy he hoped to meet the urgent need for improvement in
                        American education by bringing Pestalozzian teachers, books, and teaching materials into this
                        country; until his death, Maclure championed Pestalozzian doctrines. See Arthur E. Bestor, Jr.,
                            Education and Reform at 
                                New Harmony
                            : Correspondence of William Maclure and Marie Duclos Fretageot (Indiana
                            Historical Society Publications, vol. XV, no. 3; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1948) for additional information about Maclure. Lowell Mason reintroduced
                        Pestalozzian teaching principles in the so-called second wave, beginning about 1830, by
                        advocating the Swiss teacher's principles of music education in his various books and
                        manuals. For more details on Mason and his method of music education, consult Howard E. Ellis,
                            The Influence of Pestalozzianism on Instruction in Music (
                            Ann Arbor
                        , 1957), and Lowell Mason, A Glance at Pestalozzianism (
                            New York
                        , 1863).
               
                  2 A number of books and articles have appeared on Joseph Neef's
                        contribution to the spread of Pestalozzianism in America. Chief among them are William Maclure,
                        "An Epitome of the Improved Pestalozzian System of Education,"
            
            
            The oft-stated but misleading conclusion that Neef merely emulated the Pestalozzian method without
                    adding significantly to its theory or practice is based on several considerations. Neef was, first,
                    trained by Pestalozzi, taught under his guidance for about three years at the Burgdorf school, and
                    directed the Pestalozzian school in 
                        Paris
                     for an additional three years. Neef also was brought to the 
                        United States
                     specifically to introduce the Pestalozzian teaching method. Publicly and privately,
                    Neef gave frequent testimony of his admiration of Pestalozzi, and he was never reluctant to
                    acknowledge his indebtedness to him. And finally, Neef's Sketch of a Plan and
                        Method of Education (1808) and Method of Instructing Children Rationally
                    (1813) include many direct references to his indebtedness to Pestalozzi, such as: "There is
                    nothing new under the sun. Do not expect, therefore, that I am going to initiate my pupils in new
                    arts, in unheard-of sciences. … They will learn no new things, but they will learn the
                    old things in a new way. This is Pestalozzi's method."3 This
                    misinterpretation of Neef's role has rested on an unquestioning acceptance of the
                    educator's claims that he was simply following Pestalozzi's philosophy and on a
                    failure to look beyond these claims by actually comparing the 
                  
                     American Journal of Science and Arts, X (no. 1, 1826),
                            145–51; Samuel George Morton, "A Memoir of William Maclure,"
                                American Journal of Science and Arts, XLVII (October, 1844),
                            1–17; A. Carman, "Joseph Neef: A Pestalozzian Pioneer," Popular Science Monthly, XLV (July, 1894), 373–75; C.H. Wood,
                            "The First Disciple of Pestalozzi in America," Indiana School
                                Journal, XXVII (November, 1892), 660–65; Henry Barnard,
                            "Pestalozzianism in the 
                                United States
                            ," Barnard's Journal of Education, XXX
                            (March, 1880), 561–72; Will S. Monroe, "Pestalozzi Literature in
                            America," Kindergarten Magazine, VI (May, 1894),
                            673–76; C.D. Gardette, "Pestallozzi [sic] in America," The Galaxy, IV (August, 1867), 432–39; Will S. Monroe,
                            "Joseph Neef and Pestalozzianism in America," Education,
                            XIV (April, 1894), 449–61; N.A. Calkins, "The History of Object
                            Teaching," in Barnards The American Journal of Education, XXIX
                            (December, 1863), 633–45; Arthur Eugene Bestor, Jr., Backwoods
                                Utopias: The Sectarian and Owenite Phases of Communitarian Socialism in America:
                                1663–1829 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1950), 147; "Pestalozzianism in 
                                Britain
                             and the 
                                United States
                            ," in Kate Silber, Pestalozzi, The Man and His Work (
                                New York
                            , 1973), 278–315; Gerald L. Gutek, Joseph Neef: The
                                Americanization of Pestalozzianism (University, Ala., 1978); Charles W.
                            Hackensmith, Biography of Joseph Neef: Educator in the Ohio
                                Valley, 1808–1854 (
                                New York
                            , 1973); Gerald Lee Gutek, "An Examination of Joseph Neef's
                            Theory of Ethical Education," History of Education Quarterly, IX
                            (Summer, 1969), 187–201; Theodor Schreiber, "The First Pestalozzian in
                            the New World," The German-American Review, IX (October, 1942).
                            25–27; Ralph E. Billett, "Evidence of Play and Exercise in Early
                            Pestalozzian and Lancasterian Elementary Schools in the 
                                United States
                            , 1609–1845," Research Quarterly, XXIII
                            (May, 1952), 127–35.
                  
                     3 Joseph Neef, Sketch of a Plan and Method of Education,
                                Founded on an Analysis of the Human Faculties, and Natural Reason, Suitable for the
                                Offspring of a Free People, and for all Rational Beings (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1808), 6.
               
                    
                    
                  JOSEPH NEEF
                  
                  Courtesy 
                                New Harmony
                             Workingmen's Institute, 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana.
                two men's methods and theories. Not until Gerald L. Gutek's Joseph Neef: The Americanization of Pestalozzianism (1978) appeared, acknowledging that
                    Neef's theory of education has been treated only superficially, did any scholar express
                    discomfort with this view. Even Gutek maintained only that disciples once "trained by
                    Pestalozzi could rightfully claim to be his heir, even though each one gave a unique interpretation
                    of his method."4
            
            Any discussion of Neef's educational thought should be two dimensional. It must, on the one
                    hand, define his Swiss 
                  
                     4 Gutek, Joseph Neef, 10. This is still the best
                            scholarly source for a close examination of Neef's teaching methods. Unfortunately,
                            Gutek does not compare Neef's method of education to that of Pestalozzi by giving
                            specific details and differences, possibly because he did not have access to some Neef
                            manuscripts which were only recently made available to this author. Neef's
                            innovations were, however, mentioned as early as 1884. In a letter to Professor Eli F.
                        
               
                     teacher's educational theories, which unquestionably
                    played a fundamental role in molding Neef's thought. At the same time, it must move beyond
                    this to analyze the distinctive features of American culture and especially of the American frontier
                    that led Neef to modify these theories. Neef's role as an educational innovator becomes
                    particularly clear in considering three areas in which his methods differed sharply from those of
                    Pestalozzi. First, Pestalozzi's objective was to teach the lower Social orders to help
                    themselves; for Neef, however, the goal was to show everyone, not only the poor, how to acquire the
                    skills of analyzing, examining, and investigating. Second, Pestalozzi's educational methods
                    reflected his belief that a person's place in the class structure was fixed and that there
                    was little likelihood of Social mobility; Neef's methods incorporated the American belief
                    that success and improvement were open to all those willing to work hard enough. And finally,
                    Pestalozzi viewed education not as a "head-in-the-clouds" affair, but as a
                    practical one; Neef left the content of education to the individual, thus separating content and
                    method and leaving each person to decide for himself his future station in life. The writings from
                    Neef's 
                        Philadelphia
                     period and from his later terms of service at Village Green, 
                        Louisville
                    , and 
                        New Harmony
                     show the gradual shift of his educational methods and thought from mere imitation of
                    Pestalozzianism to the incorporation of significant innovations. These writings also reveal those
                    aspects of Neef's American experience which caused him to develop these innovations.
            Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi's fame was first established with the publication of The Evening Hour of a Hermit (1780), a romantic novel in the tradition of
                    Rousseau's Emile (1757–1760). But it is his work at his
                    experimental schools at the Neuhof and in Burgdorf, 
                        Switzerland
                    , upon which his reputation now rests. The Burgdorf school is famous for the development
                    of the "ABC of Anschauung," the reduction of instruction into its simplest
                    components, and for the teaching of writing,
                  Tappan of Kenyon College, Richard Owen pointed out various innovations.
                            "Pestalozzi's system," he wrote, "in some detail
                            modified and improved by Mr. Neef, was truly admirable and a means of drawing out of the
                            child's powers and cultivating habits of observations. … As Pestalozzi
                            had been less successful in applying his own principles practically to Geography than most
                            other branches … Neef proposes a great improvement, namely the construction by
                            his pupils of maps or plans after actual measurements." See Richard Owen to Eli F.
                            Tappan, 1884, Richard Owen Collection (William Henry Smith Memorial Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
               
               
                    
                  JOHANN HEINRICH PESTALOZZI
                  
                  Reproduced from W. Kayser. Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi: Nach seinem Leben, Wirken
                                und seiner Bedeutung (Zürich, 1895). frontispiece.
                drawing, and counting. Of greater concern here are the educational theories Pestalozzi
                    experimented with at this institute. These theories can be summarized briefly. Pestalozzi believed
                    that a teacher must not only know the child as a living and growing organism but also must acquire
                    the art of understanding children so that he may influence them; thus education must be
                    child-centered. He showed other teachers how to do research and experimental work in the field of
                    education. He introduced psychology, child-study, and Anschauung
               5 into education 
                  
                     5 Largely due to Neef, Pestalozzi's notion of Anschauung—i.e., "observation" —is
                            referred to as "object teaching" or "object lessons" in
                            America. Other possible equivalents are "direct experience,"
                            "intuition," "sense perception,"
                            "view," and "sense impression." Anschauung was the keystone of the Pestalozzian theory of education. For Neef the term
                            meant that all knowledge should derive from the pupil's immediate experience, rest
                            on prior analysis, and involve the ability to predict results of actions; this represents a
                            definite innovation over Pestalozzi's original meaning of the term.
                            Pestalozzi's concept of
               
                     and adapted the individual subjects to the needs of the child.
                    Pestalozzi's teaching methods attempted to prepare the child emotionally and intellectually
                    for life as an adult. He forced education to be democratic by devising teaching methods that were to
                    inspire children from different Social backgrounds. He put forward the view that instruction should
                    always begin with the simple before moving to the complex and with the physically near before moving
                    to the more distant objects. And lastly, Pestalozzi used simultaneous group instruction on an
                    experimental basis, a method which proved especially successful in the teaching of spelling,
                    arithmetic, and writing, as well as in play activities and gymnastics.
            This system of education was thus designed to take fully into account the pupil and what he was able
                    to achieve emotionally, intellectually, physically, and mentally. It was based on the principle of
                    "beginning with the easiest and making this complete before going further, then gradually
                    adding, little by little, to that already perfectly learned,"6 to
                    produce in the pupil a feeling of achievement. To this end education had to provide the pupil with
                    experiences, stimuli, and exercises which only gradually became more difficult and complex. The
                    basis of Pestalozzi's methods was best expressed in his How Gertrude Teaches
                        Her Children (1801), where he set forth that education should always aim at the harmonious
                    development of the child's personality, a concept borrowed from Rousseau, with whom he
                    agreed that education must harmonize with the laws of nature. Above all, he was one of the first
                    educators to attempt to analyze the elements of the science of education by proposing that
                    "the carriage of European public education must not simply be better horsed; what it needs
                    most of all is that it should be turned right around and taken on to an entirely new
                        road."7
            
            Joseph Neef, while recuperating in a French military hospital from a head wound which he had received
                    in 1796 in the Battle of Arcole (
                        Italy
                    ), read Pestalozzi's early writings, among them The Evening Hour
                        of A Hermit and Leonard and Gertrude. 
                  
                     Anschauung was based on the idea that all knowledge enters the mind
                            through the portals of the senses and, according to him, forms the "absolute
                            foundation of all knowledge." See "The Method, A Report by
                            Pestalozzi," in Johann Hein-rich Pestalozzi, How Gertrude Teaches Her
                                Children, ed. Ebenezer Cooke, trans. Lucy E. Holland and Frances C. Turner (
                                London
                            , 1894), 316.
                  
                     6 Pestalozzi, How Gertrude Teaches Her Children, 53.
                  
                     7 Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi, Sämtliche
                            Werke, ed. Artur Buchenau, Eduard Spranger, and Hans Stettbacher (30 vols., Berlin,
                            1927–1980), XIII, 319.
               
                     Possibly due to his own need to find a new profession, Neef
                    identified with Pestalozzi's philosophical search for the means by which a person might
                    achieve fulfillment in life, personal satisfaction through one's vocation, and peace with
                    oneself. Thus it is not surprising that upon his recovery he ventured to Burgdorf, 
                        Switzerland
                    , to apply for a teaching position.8 In 1800 he joined
                    Pestalozzi's Bergdorf school faculty to teach foreign languages and gymnastics, almost
                    immediately developing close personal ties and a good professional relationship with Pestalozzi.
            At the end of 1803 Pestalozzi requested Neef to open a Pestalozzian school in 
                        Paris
                    , since he had become a skilled practitioner of the natural method and had mastered the
                    French language. As a loyal disciple Neef introduced Pestalozzi's method to 
                        France
                    . Unfortunately little is known about the 
                        Paris
                     school except for one letter from Neef to Pestalozzi; in this the former expressed his
                    dissatisfaction with his assignment, complaining that the French did not really understand the
                    method that Pestalozzi advocated and that most of the pupils at the school were weak and
                        ill-prepared.9
            
            Thus, when William Maclure, the American geologist and philanthropist, visited Neef's
                    Pestalozzian school in 
                        Paris
                     in 1806 and offered to pay for the latter's expenses to emigrate to the 
                        United States
                     to open a similar school in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , he accepted joyfully. He wrote of this decision: "I was not only glad to quit
                    Europe, but I burnt with desire to see that country, to live in, and to be useful to it, which can
                    boast of such citizens."10
            
            In 1806 Neef and his family emigrated to the 
                        United States
                     of America. Under the terms of the agreement with Maclure, Neef was required by his
                    sponsor to "teach children after the method of Pestalozzi for three years from the date of
                    arrival, in 
                  
                     8 Gutek, Neef, 6. Cf. Caroline Dale Snedeker, The Town of the Fearless (
                        Garden
                                City, N.Y.
                     , 1931),
                            56–59.
                  
                     9 Joseph Neef to Johann H. Pestalozzi, n.d. (ca.
                            1803–1804); the original manuscript is kept in the Kenneth Dale Owen residence at 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana. The author is indebted to Mr. Owen for his kind permission to examine
                            the Neef-Owen family papers at his residence and for granting permission to quote from the
                            materials. The author also is indebted to Josephine M. Elliott, Archivist Emeritus, Indiana
                            State University 
                                Evansville
                            , who is cataloguing the Neef-Owen family papers, for her invaluable help in
                            locating various Neef letters and manuscripts, many of which have not been available to
                            scholars before. The author is also grateful to Aline Cook and the staff of the
                            Workingmen's Institute and Library at 
                                New Harmony
                             for their assistance in facilitating this research.
                  
                     10 Neef, Sketch of a Plan, 5.
               
                    
                    
                  WILLIAM MACLURE
                  
                  Reproduced from Will S. Monroe. History of the Pestalozzian Movement in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Syracuse
                            . 1907), frontispiece.
               consequence of which William Maclure agrees to pay Professor Neef's expenses from 
                        Paris
                     to the 
                        United States
                     of America."11 Since Neef was not familiar with English,
                    he was allowed at least two years to acquire a sufficient knowledge of the language.12
            
            
               
                  11 Contract between Joseph Neef and William Maclure, March 19, 1806,
                        Joseph Neef Collection (Workingmen's Institute and Library, 
                            New Harmony
                        , Indiana). On the back of the contract Neef states that he "received from
                        William Maclure three thousand two hundred livres tournois in full payment for expenses to the 
                            United States
                         of America." This contract is one of the reasons echolam have never
                        seriously questioned Neef's devotion to Pestalozzian teaching methods. Rather, they
                        have attempted to evaluate the impact of the system, the fame of the various schools, and such
                        topics. Calkins, for instance, concluded that "the cause of Neef's apparent
                        inability to markedly influence the educational activities was because he failed to Americanize
                        the Pestalozzian system instead of merely transplanting it"; see Catkins,
                        "History of Object Teaching," 673. Another scholar saw Neef's
                        influence in a similar light: "Neef's work lacked permanency. Had he remained
                        in 
                            Philadelphia
                         and organized a normal school for the preparation of teachers in the Pestalozzian
                        method, he would have been an important figure in American education." See Will S.
                        Monroe, History of the Pestalozzian Movement in the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                     Syracuse, N.Y.
                  , 1907), 85. And another states that
                        "Through William Maclure, Robert Owen and Joseph Neef … the Pestalozzian
                        system of education … was first successfully transplanted to this country";
                        George Browning Lockwood, 
                     
                                New Harmony
                             Communities (
                            Marion
                        , Ind., 1902) 13.
               
                  12 Neef, Sketch of a Plan, 5.
            
            
            Immediately upon his arrival in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , Neef began to study English by himself. As soon as he felt confident that he had a
                    sufficient knowledge of the syntax, grammar, and vocabulary he began to write Sketch of
                        a Plan and Method of Education, which he published privately in 1808.13
                    Neef's writings in this 
                        Philadelphia
                     period (1806–1813) were dominated by the educational thinking of his Swiss
                    teacher. However, with his moves to Village Green, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and later to 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , and 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, Neef began to devise his own educational theories, possibly as a result of
                    his lack of communication with Pestalozzi and due also to the influences and harsh requirements of
                    the frontier. A comparison of Pestalozzi's and Neef's views on the nature of
                    education, the possibility of Social mobility, and the content of education makes clear the ways in
                    which Neef developed into an innovative educational theorist.
            Throughout his life Pestalozzi was concerned with the plight of the poor. In 1774, after opening his
                    first school at the Neuhof, he recognized that his natural method of education increased the chances
                    of pauper children to become self-reliant by taking into account the type of life that each pupil
                    would have to lead after leaving school. "Education of the poor," wrote
                    Pestalozzi, "demands a deep and accurate knowledge of the real needs, limitations, and
                    environment of poverty, and detailed knowledge of the probable situation in which they will spend
                    their life."14 As a result, he encouraged his teachers to experience
                    their way of life to be better able to educate the poor. Moreover, a teacher "must descend
                    into the lowest hovel of misery and must see the poor man in his gloomy room, his wife in a kitchen
                    full of smoke, and his child, all going about their almost unendurable daily duties. For this is the
                    hovel in which a publicly educated child will some day have to live."15
            
            At the Neuhof and the Burgdorf schools it was Pestalozzi's main goal to help the poor by
                    devoting himself almost exclusive 
                  
                     13 In addition to his Sketch, he also published
                            privately J. Neef, The Method of Instructing Children Rationally in the Arts of
                                Writing and Reading (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1813). Furthermore, he translated Etienne Bonnet Condillac's The Logic of Condillac (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1809). Neef's Sketch of a Plan and Method of
                            Education is the first American work to treat the Pestalozzian teaching methods as Neef
                            conceived of them as well as the first strictly pedagogical treatise written and printed in
                            the 
                                United States
                             in the English language.
                  
                     14 "Hem Pestalotz Briefe an Herm N.E.T. über die
                            Erziehung der armen Landjugend," in Pestalozzi, Sämtliche
                                Werke, I, 143.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid.
               
                     to their economic rehabilitation. He hoped that a
                    person's education, however, would be considered outside its Social context, thus implying
                    that one remains in one's Social class regardless of schooling. Education of the lower
                    Social orders should not lead these children outside the boundaries of their Social position and
                    condition; on the contrary, it should help them not only to become conscious of their situation but
                    also to accept the limitations peculiar to their Social class.16 In his
                    "Memoire uber Armenversorgung" Pestalozzi explains further that: 
                        Far from believing that one should lead the children of an institute for the poor outside the
                            boundaries of their Social class and conditions, I believe it an essential requirement that
                            in it they be made continually conscious of their poverty and their real situation and that
                            they be forced to accept all the exertions and efforts peculiar to class and situation.17
                  
                    
            
            Indeed, Pestalozzi became convinced that much of 
                        Switzerland
                    's political and Social instability was caused by the lack of education. The
                    poor, being Society's least-educated class, were dissatisfied with their Social position;
                    proper education would lead them to understand and accept their place in the class structure. The
                    Swiss aristocracy, however, viewed any type of general education as a threat to their own place in
                    Society. As a result, they did not even attempt to understand Pestalozzi's
                    "doctrine of appropriateness of condition," with which he tried to change the
                    attitudes of the aristocracy and poor alike by arguing that a person's Socioeconomic
                    position should be based on his occupation alone. Education should be provided for everyone without
                    regard to a pupil's class background.18 A solid general education would
                    not only provide the poor child with a higher degree of flexibility in his trade, allow him to adapt
                    to various jobs, and give him a feeling of satisfaction, but would also teach him to appreciate his
                    manual Skills.19 Most important, a proper general education for all would
                    provide the whole population, but especially the poor, with a better understanding of themselves,
                    allow them to plan more effectively for their own 
                  
                     16 "Ein Gespräch über
                            Volksaufilärung und Volksbildung," in Pestalozzi, Sämtliche Werke, XVIII, 189–90.
                  
                     17 "Memoire über Armenversorgung mit spezieller
                            Rücksicht auf Neuenberg (Armeneniehungs-Anstalten)," in Pestalozzi, Sämtliche Werke, XX, 100–101.
                  
                     18 For a detailed discussion of Pestalozzi's
                            "doctrine of appropriateness of condition," see Gerald L. Gutek, Pestalozzi and Education (
                                New York
                            , 1968), 73–79.
                  
                     19 "Industrial Education," in Michael Heafford, Pestalozzi: His Thought and Its Relevance Today (
                                London
                            , 1967), 79–83.
               
                     future, and improve communication among different Social
                    classes.
            While Pestalozzi's system of education was intended primarily to prepare the poor to accept
                    their lot—i.e., to change their attitudes toward their Social status rather than that
                    status itself, to provide them with more flexibility in their trade, and to allow them to plan
                    ahead—Neef's motive for insisting that everyone has a right to a proper
                    education was quite different. Due to the vastness of America, its scarce population, and its
                    abundance of natural resources, Social and class boundaries were hardly visible on the frontier.
                    Here education was important, Neef believed, "because I know it to be the only source of
                    our acting well and consequently of our happiness."20
            
            Neef's frontier experiences showed him that the survival of the individual often depended on
                    his ability to stand on his own two feet and to use whatever knowledge and skill he had in the
                    struggle with the harsh conditions of the frontier. In the life of each pioneer and
                    "back-woodsman," as Neef liked to refer to himself, ideas were often the only
                    instrument of adjustment and the results of their application were usually immediate. Under frontier
                    conditions control of the environment was an absolute necessity for survival. Indeed, knowledge was
                    prized as a person's most dependable means of extending his control over the environment.
                    Knowledge, furthermore, strengthened the pioneer's faith that he should not be afraid of
                    change but rather should welcome it as a sign of Social improvement and proof that he was able to
                    master the circumstances of life on the frontier.
            These frontier conditions were incorporated into Neef's method of education. In an undated
                    and hitherto unpublished manuscript Neef wrote: 
                        Fellow Citizens! To educate children is generally understood to mean teaching them all sorts
                            of arts & sciences, as well as dead & living languages. This view of the
                            matter, however, does not seem to be quite correct. If education consisted in the imparting
                            of knowledge of our arts & sciences; then no person could be called completely
                            educated, unless thoroughly acquainted with languages, arts & sciences too numerous
                            & too difficult of acquisition that ten ordinary lives would not suffice to receive
                            such an education. The obvious impossibility of the scheme proves that such a comprehensive
                            instruction cannot be the real scope of education. Nor would the matter be mended by saying
                            that a judicious selection should be made of such languages, arts & sciences as
                            would really be useful & necessary to the welfare of the future man. For to make
                            such a selection, it would be necessary to have a foreknowledge of the 
                        
                           20 Joseph Neef to William Maclure, December 6, 1834; property
                                    of Kenneth D. Owen.
                     
                             parts that every child has to play in the drama of
                            life; but no human sagacity ever possessed such a gift of prophecy. Our arts, sciences,
                            languages are therefore but the instruments or means, through which the powers of the human
                            mind are developed, whereas evolving of these powers is the real object of education or
                            rather education itself. If you consider with me this view of the matter as being correct,
                            you will certainly not wonder at my declaring that the matters of instruction are but of a
                            secondary importance; whereas the method, by which any species of knowledge is imparted to
                            the human mind, becomes a matter of the most serious, the most momentous consideration. That
                            the reverse of this creed is firmly established in ninety-nine out of a hundred heads I
                            know, nor do I doubt but many a wise man will sneer at my preposterous notions. This
                            difference of opinion, however, only proves that my notion is different from that of others;
                            but for or against its correctness it proves nothing. This latter point is, however, the
                            only one that deserves our attention. Let us, therefore, examine whether I am right or
                            whether I am wrong.
                        It is evident, methinks, that with all our real or imaginary sagacity, we cannot possibly
                            foresee the future situation of our children, what art or what science will be necessary
                            & useful to their future welfare. This position I think to be obvious &
                            incontrovertible; and this being the case, how can we determine before hand what arts,
                            languages, sciences will be required to insure their future happiness, their future
                            usefulness? Suppose, for instance, I require a son of mine to learn the Greek language.
                            Well; chance & choice combine, and the young fellow becomes a merchant. Do you think
                            that his knowledge of Greek will be of great service to him in his commercial speculations?
                            Do you, can you approve that the time, he employed in studying the language of ancient 
                                Greece
                            , has been very usefully spent? Your smile convinces me that you suppose no such
                            thing. From this short exposition of the matter we are therefore forcibly led to the
                            conclusion that languages, arts, sciences must be considered only as the instruments by
                            which education is to be effected, that they are not of primary importance & that in
                            their selection we can only be guided by the probabilities more or less obvious. But the
                            mode of acquiring knowledge is all-important, indeed. As soon as a child knows how to
                            acquire any species of knowledge, as soon as it has acquired the habit & skill of
                            analyzing, examining, investigating every thing, it deems necessary to become acquainted
                            with; its education may be considered as accomplished.21
                  
                    
            
            It is, therefore, not surprising that Neef did not agree with Pestalozzi concerning the doctrine of
                    appropriateness of condition. He realized that pioneer America was attempting to lay the foundations
                    of a new civilization and that these foundations could not be laid by simply transplanting European
                    educational thought and practice, which judged human beings by their ancestry rather than by what
                    they were able to achieve themselves. Here each family, whether rich or poor, encountered the 
                  
                     21 Joseph Neef, "Education Nr. 8," n.d.; property of
                            Kenneth D. Owen. This manuscript implies that Neef had written a series of short discussions
                            on education. Its content suggests that it was written after the 1828 collapse of the Owen
                            experiment in 
                                New Harmony
                            , since Neef's views on education seem to have matured more fully. From
                            1828 to 1835 Neef devoted much attention to theoretical concerns; see Neef's
                            correspondence with Maclure from this period.
               
                     same conditions on the frontier and what they were able to
                    achieve there became the only valid test of their character, education, and status. Since each
                    family had to grapple with the same crude frontier conditions, Neef was not interested only in the
                    education of certain Social classes. Moreover, he did not intend to prepare his pupils for a
                    specific station in life because on the frontier it was impossible for the teacher to know what
                    place in Society his pupils eventually would hold.
            This view also revealed a second area of difference between Neef and Pestalozzi: the
                    former's belief in the democratic ideals which America symbolized and particularly in the
                    American commitment to nearly unlimited Social mobility. This mobility was possible, in part,
                    because the European feudal system with its fixed class structure had not been established in the
                    thinly populated regions of the western frontier. Here the vastness of the country meant that the
                    pioneer, and with him American civilization, was continually on the march.
            Pestalozzi, who was culturally, Socially, and educationally bound to the European tradition and knew
                    of prejudices and class distinctions from personal experience, believed that one important objective
                    of education was to teach the pupil to be 
                  THE NEW HARMONY HOME
                            OF JOSEPH NEEF
                  
                  Courtesy 
                                New Harmony
                             Workingmen's Institute. 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana.
               
                     "prudent, so that he may not be
                        distrustful."22 The rigid class system was well established in 
                        Switzerland
                     and its stability depended to a large degree on the general acceptance of inherited
                    Social and economic status and unquestioning reliance on the justice of the system. Here, indeed,
                    the pupils needed to be taught not to be mistrustful of the system itself, their role within the
                    system, and their limited rights.
            In America, on the other hand, Social mobility was less dependent upon one's background than
                    upon resourcefulness, hard work, courage, and ingenuity. With the westward movement and the opening
                    of new frontiers, the emergence of a new social order gave the American a sense of individualism,
                    necessitating a reliance on one's own judgment. "To educate children,"
                    concluded Neef, "is to prepare them for their future standing in life. We ought, therefore
                    to acquaint them with the dangers which will surround them in life; we ought to do more; we ought to
                    teach them to avoid those dangers. We know that there are cheats, deceivers, and imposters [sic] of
                    every kind and description. … Now sir, I would accustom my pupils never blindly to
                    believe what they hear, but always to investigate first whether what they hear to be
                        true."23
            
            As a pioneer and teacher on the American frontier, Neef did not believe that his pupils should accept
                    his word as unquestionable truth; rather, he hoped to be challenged. In this manner his pupils would
                    grow up as rationalists who would muster evidence based on their own observations and who would not
                    believe anything on the basis of someone else's word: 
                        It is this original habit of always acting in conformity to our own knowledge that originates
                            [sic] all our good and useful habits which constitute a really happy existence. Man well
                            educated according to my plan, would not only ascertain with precision and accuracy the
                            properties of external nature but also the consequences of human actions, the effect of
                            different agencies on our sensibility, the relation of man to man and to other beings.24
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  22 Pestalozzi was well aware of the unjust and often unfair practices. See
                        Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi, Sämtliche Briefe, ed. Pestalozzianum
                        Zürich and the Zentralbibliothek in Zürich (13 vols., Zürich,
                        1946–1971), IV, 298; Heinrich Pestalozzi, Lienhard und Gertrud [Leonard
                            and Gertrude] (1781–1787). Quoted in A. Pinloche, Pestalozzi
                            and the Foundation of the Modern Elementary School (
                            New York
                        , 1901), 123.
               
                  23 Neef, Sketch of a Plan, 28. On page 27 of the same
                        source Neef wrote, "My pupils shall never believe what I tell them because I tell it
                        [to] them, but because their own senses and understandings convince them that it is
                        true." Since Neef claimed that his teaching methods were designed for life in the real
                        world, he encouraged critical thinking and independent thought. This is a difference which
                        deserves further investigation and research.
               
                  24 Joseph Neef to William Maclure, December 6, 1834; property of Kenneth
                        D. Owen.
            
            
            Neef attempted to realize the pioneer's desire to use the resources of science and
                    technology by strengthening each pupil's faith that he could effectively master frontier
                    life. His view of the well-educated man thus embodied the following: 
                        A well educated man means a man who looks before he leaps, who examines everything and
                            believes nothing; who in every instance takes his own experience for his guides in acting,
                            who habitually and invariably refuses to act in obedience to his fancy or imagination or any
                            other suggestion of external testimony, who has acquired the habit of analysing every
                            subject that may interest him, who has acquired the habit of using his senses with certainty
                            and effect.25
                  
                     Thus, for Neef education involved more than the mere assimilation of information: it
                    denoted the ability to make dependable decisions based on personal experience, to make rational
                    inferences which would make life richer and more secure, and to base actions on prior analysis.
                    Education conceived in this way had moral as well as intellectual implications: because it fostered
                    the ability to predict an act's results and to weigh one's actions against their
                    anticipated consequences, a good general education of this type necessarily taught pupils to be more
                    free and self-reliant. Neef's curriculum was devised to enable his pupils to partake of the
                    kind of experiences that foster the growth of intelligent behavior. He provided ample opportunity
                    for responses to actual life situations, for planning to deal with these situations in the light of
                    different consequences, for the observations to study outcomes, and for various types of evaluations
                    of results.
            The third area of striking differences in their respective methods of education, closely allied to
                    the two already mentioned, was that Pestalozzi's was vocational: he tried to prepare the
                    pupil to find happiness, fulfillment, and flexibility in the trade of his parents or family.
            Neef did not share this view because the pioneers were oriented toward the future, not the past. This
                    outlook was the result of the young Republic's lack of any authoritarian system of civil or
                    religious institutions. Thus, the American pioneer's life was not constrained by precedents
                    of the past. Therefore, Neef preferred the following method: "As soon as a child knows how
                    to acquire any species of knowledge, as soon as it has acquired the habit & skill of
                    analyzing, examining, investigating everything, it deems necessary to become acquainted with; 
                  25 Ibid.
               
                    
                    
                  HARMONIST DORMITORY NO. 2, THE BUILDING IN WHICH JOSEPH NEEF CONDUCTED
                                HIS SCHOOL AT NEW HARMONY
                  
                  Courtesy 
                                New Harmony
                             Workingmen's Institute. 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana.
                its education may be considered as accomplished."26 For Neef
                    it was the duty of the teacher to provide each child with an education that was less oriented toward
                    subject matter or the learning of a trade than toward good habits in the acquisition of correct
                    knowledge.
            The frontier experience, the mobility of American Social life, and the American people's
                    orientation toward the future rather than the past opened Neef's eyes to the real content
                    of education. In the following quote Neef went one step further by epitomizing the educational
                    system of his contemporaries: 
                        Schooling goes on pretty well; that is schoolhouses are erecting, children are sent there,
                            schoolmasters appointed, primers, spelling books are as plenty as blackberries, pious tracts
                            and holy bibles are studied most devoutly. The consequence of all this ado will be as it
                            always has been, a plentiful crop of credulity; and therefore the next generation of men and
                            women, to a dead certainty, [will] be as credulous, fantastic, fanatic, foolish, and
                            wretched as the drones, who live on the credulity and folly of the miserable drudging bees,
                            can desire.
                        
                     
                        26 Neef, "Education Nr. 8"; property of Kenneth
                                D. Owen.
                  
                        
                        This is a sad prospect, you will say, and I agree with you if this is any consolation to you.
                            As to universal equal education of which the workers talk, this will take place as soon as
                            the bees shall unite their efforts to have themselves represented by honest bees of their
                            own class; but I do not see how such an event can take place as long as they persist in
                            electing drones to make the laws. … I think about this important matter as I have
                            been thinking for more than thirty years past, I mean, since I became acquainted with my old
                            master Pestalozzi.27
                  
                     The excerpt, although it avows to follow in the footsteps of the "old master
                    Pestalozzi," reveals Neef's innovative spirit, critical mind, and rational views.
                    While bearing in mind that schooling was not for schooling's sake, but for the acquisition
                    of knowledge to support freedom, Neef also hinted at the fact that his teaching methods had not been
                    accepted by most of the schools of his day and age.
            While Pestalozzi placed primary emphasis on the factor of social heritage when educating his pupils
                    for a specific trade, Neef seized on another concept—universal equal education of all
                    children, which to him meant that each pupil must be taught the skills of analyzing, examining, and
                    investigating, not specific subject matter. Thus Neef could oppose book-centered educators, who
                    often employed undemocratic, harsh methods. He realized that whenever education is restricted to the
                    study of books the work of the school usually becomes an end in itself: in classrooms thus cut off
                    from frontier life, the learning process inevitably must become as mechanical as the construction of
                    schoolhouses.
            Joseph Neef's rightful place as an innovative educator and educational philosopher should be
                    acknowledged. While he grounded his system of education in the ideas developed by Pestalozzi, Neef
                    went on to adapt these ideas to the Society he found in the New World. His belief in the democratic
                    ideals of the young Republic and his experience on the frontier, where the key to success was hard
                    work rather than ethnic, Social, or economic background, led him to advocate an equal education for
                    all. This education was to impart the skills necessary for investigation, examination, and analysis,
                    the processes which would enable pupils to base their decisions on personal experience and knowledge
                    rather than unquestioning acceptance of the teachings of others. Because he found a Society which
                    lacked Europe's fixed class structure and thus provided seemingly unlimited opportunities
                    for personal advancement, Neef 
                  
                     27 Joseph Neef to William Maclure, December 6, 1834; property of
                            Kenneth D. Owen.
               
                     argued against his mentor's doctrine of the
                    appropriateness of condition. In America, such factors as personal choice and ability, rather than
                    social background, determined the trade one should enter. And finally, Neef believed that in a
                    Society free of the intellectual constraints of the type imposed by the Old World's archaic
                    religious and civil institutions education should aim at more than the mere imparting of specific
                    information. Rather, it should stress the process by which information was acquired, for by
                    mastering this process each person could gain an equal chance to participate in the exploitation of
                    vast natural resources, the exploration of new territory, and the foundation of a new civilization
                    in America.
         
         
         
            The 1910 Federal Census: A Note
            
                    Robert G. Barrows*
               
                
            With the expiration of the prescribed seventy-two-year waiting period, the manuscript population
                    schedules of the 1910 federal census are now open for research and available for purchase on
                    microfilm. Since the Indiana portion of the census schedules fills fifty-two rolls of microfilm and
                    sells for $780, most individuals desiring access to the entire collection will have to
                    rely on appropriate repositories. (Both the Genealogy Division of the Indiana State Library, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and the 
                        Allen County
                     Public Library, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , plan to acquire the entire Indiana set.) Persons concerned with a particular town,
                    township, city, or county, however, may wish to purchase the roll(s) of microfilm covering their
                    area of interest—to encourage their local historical Society, genealogical Society, or
                    public library to do so.1
            
            Those who have come to know and love the Soundex index to the 1900 census will be disappointed to
                    learn that only twenty-one states were similarly indexed for 1910 and that Indiana was not included
                    in this group. Thus, it will be more difficult to locate a given individual in the 1910 Indiana
                    schedules than is the case for the preceding decennial enumeration. A partial compensation is
                    provided by the recent release on microfilm of the census enumeration district descriptions. This
                    source will be particularly valuable for researchers attempting 
                  
                     * Robert G. Barrows is an editor with the Indiana
                            Historical Bureau, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     1 For additional information and ordering procedures write: 1910
                            Census, Publications Sales Branch (NEPS), National Archives, 
                                Washington, D.C.
                             20408, or call (202) 523–3164. The 1910 census schedules comprise
                            National Archives Microfilm Publication T624, with the Indiana material on rolls
                            338–89. For a list of the counties included on each roll, see The
                                1910 Population Census: A Catalog of Microfilm Copies of the Schedules (Washington,
                            1982), available from the above address.
               
                    
                    
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census, Thirteenth Census
                                of the 
                                    United States
                                , Taken in the Year 1910. Volume I, Population, 1910:
                                General Report and Analysis (Washington, 1913), 1368–69.
               
                     to locate specific individuals who were living in large urban
                    areas. When used in conjunction with city directories and maps, the district descriptions can
                    expedite one's search by isolating the specific enumeration district in which a subject
                    will probably be found.2
            
            Two earlier articles in the Indiana Magazine of History have discussed the value of
                    the manuscript census schedules as a source for students of family and community history.3 The 1910 census is no exception. With minor modifications, the 1910 population
                    schedules repeated most of the questions that had been asked ten years earlier.4
                    The two left-hand columns supply the name of the street or road on which the dwelling was located
                    and, for towns and cities, the house number. The enumerator then recorded for each person: name,
                    relationship to head of family, sex, race, age at last birthday (but not, as in
                    1900, the month and year of birth), marital status, place of birth, nativity of parents, whether
                    able to read, write, and speak English (for those ten years of age and over), trade or profession
                    and industry in which employed, school attendance (including college), whether blind, and whether
                    deaf and dumb.
            Other questions applied only to specific categories of respondents. Those who were married, for
                    example, were asked the number of years married to the present spouse, which
                    corrected an ambiguity on the 1900 schedule. Women who were married, widowed, or divorced were asked
                    how many children they had borne and how many of those children were still 
                  
                     2 For example, if one were searching for John Q. Public in 
                                Indianapolis
                             circa 1910: 1) determine Public's address from the city directory; 2)
                            locate the address on a city map; 3) consult the enumeration district descriptions and
                            determine in which district the address was located; 4) search for John Q. Public in the
                            relevant enumeration district. The 1910 census enumeration district descriptions for Indiana
                            are contained in roll 30 of National Archives Microfilm Publication T1224.
                  
                     3 Robert G. Barrows, "The Manuscript Federal Census: Source
                            for a ‘New’ Local History," Indiana Magazine of
                                History, LXIX (September, 1973), 181–92; idem, "The 1900
                            Federal Census: A Note on Availability and Potential Uses," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, LXXIV (June, 1978), 14652.
                  
                     4 Although the census schedules seem self-explanatory, anyone
                            undertaking work in these materials should be aware of the detailed instructions given the
                            enumerators. For example, when questioning married persons in 1910 the enumerators were
                            instructed to "inquire whether they have been married before, and if this is the
                            first marriage, write ‘M1,’ but if this is the second or subsequent
                            marriage, write ‘M2’ (meaning married more than once)." The
                            instructions to enumerators are available most conveniently in US. Bureau of the Census, Twenty Censuses: Population and Housing Questions, 1790–1980
                            (Washington, 1979). Information relating to the 1910 census is on pages 40–46 of
                            this publication.
               
                     living. All foreign-born persons were asked the year of their
                    immigration to the 
                        United States
                    , and all foreign-born males over the age of twenty-one were asked their naturalization
                    status. All persons with an occupation were asked whether they were an employer, an employee, or
                    self-employed ("working on own account"). Those recorded as
                    "employees" were also queried as to whether they had been unemployed on the census
                    day (April 15) and how many weeks they had been out of work during the year 1909. The head of each family enumerated was asked whether the family's living quarters
                    were rented or owned and, if the latter, whether owned free or mortgaged. Finally, all native-born
                    males over fifty years of age and all foreign-born males who had immigrated before 1865 were asked
                    whether they had served in the Union or Confederate army or navy.
            The two articles cited above (see note 3) suggest a variety of ways in which the manuscript census
                    might be used in the study of family and community history. Those suggestions, by no means
                    exhaustive, apply to the 1910 census as well as to the earlier decennial enumerations. The 1910
                    canvass does, however, present some new research possibilities. In cases where a respondent did not
                    speak English, the enumerators were instructed to record the language he or she did in fact speak.
                    Thus, language can be used, as well as the national origins of the population, in examining a
                    community's heterogeneity. Likewise, the question concerning employment status (employer,
                    employee, self-employed) permits a new dimension to be added to studies of an area's
                    occupational structure and organization. The inquiry concerning number of weeks out of work during
                    1909 opens the way for consideration of unemployment patterns at the local level. Finally, the
                    question regarding Civil War service suggests interesting possibilities for demographic analysis, as
                    well as for explanation of the tenacity of both "bloody shirt" and "lost
                    cause" ideologies.
            In short, the 1910 manuscript federal census, like its predecessors, contains a wealth of data that
                    imaginative community historians can draw upon as they seek to understand the structure and texture
                    of life in the early twentieth century.
         
         
         
            
               
                        Middletown
                     Revisited: Searching for the Heart of Mid–America
            
                    Ralph Janis*
               
                
            Peter Davis, producer. The 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     films: The Campaign (90 min.); The Big Game (60 min.); Community of Praise (60 min.); Family Business (90 min.); Second Time Around (60 min.); Seventeen (90 min.).**
            
            The search for the "real America" is as old as Crèvecoeur and as modern
                    as Peter Davis. When conducted successfully, such expeditions into the American heart and mind yield
                    conclusions and questions that long outlive their creators. That names like Crèvecoeur,
                    Tocqueville, and Lynd are still familiar to students of America testifies to the quality and
                    originality of their inquiries. Whether 
                  
                            Middletown
                         Revisited, Peter Davis's recent, widely publicized contribution to
                    that search, will acceed to similar stature remains to be seen. That Davis's career is
                    devoted to carrying on that venerable search, there is no doubt.
            
               
                  
                            Middletown
                         Revisited, a documentary series based on life and culture in 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, was aired nationally over P.B.S. in the spring of 1982. Each program in the
                    series focused on a single aspect of 
                        Muncie
                     life and on the experiences of selected individuals and families. Beginning with
                    coverage of the local mayoralty race, the series continued with programs on basketball, religion,
                    small business, and marriage. In each segment the cameras told the story. Narration and outside
                    commentary on events, individuals, and situations were studiously avoided. References to 
                        Muncie
                     or Indiana were rare. Indeed, 
                  
                     * Ralph Janis is executive director of the 
                                Kentucky
                             Humanities Council, 
                        Lexington,
                                    Kentucky
                     .
                  
                     ** These films are available from some
                            instructional and commercial film libraries. Copies also are available for loan to Indiana
                            borrowers, free of charge, through the Resource Center, Indiana Committee for the
                            Humanities, 4200 North Michigan Road, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 46208 (317/925–5316). A twelve-page pamphlet, "
                                Middletown
                             Teaching Notes," also is available free of charge from the Resource
                            Center.
               
                     were it not for Janos Starker's rendition of
                    "My Indiana Home" at the beginning of each program, the Hoosier connection would
                    not have been made by more than a handful of viewers. The series was, in content and structure,
                    clearly designed to speak to America about America and to let the Americans portrayed do the
                    speaking.
            In major ways the approach worked. Each of the programs succeeded in giving viewers entry into the
                    lives, concerns, moods, and humanness of the various protagonists. One could not help but be moved
                    by the dilemmas of the pizza parlor owner and his family struggling to keep home and business
                    afloat; by the gap between the hopes and the hard realities faced by the couple contemplating
                    marriage the second time around; by the shyness of the Republican candidate and the past mistakes of
                    the Democrat; by the quest for personal goodness and the hard rock of human nature as they shaped
                    the lives of the family belonging to a fundamentalist church.
            The lives portrayed were those of average people—the middle strata of middle America.
                    Davis's America is ‘just folks,’ as the saying goes: neither black
                    nor rich, neither fools nor genuises, neither heroes nor villains. One suspects that Robert and
                    Helen Lynd, the authors of the original 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     series, would have argued that the center of the series hit just below the middle of 
                        Muncie
                    's classes on that hazy line where white collars show some blue. Thus, the
                    series is not best seen as finding the heart of middle America—lower middle would be more
                    accurate. Whether consciously or not, Davis focused mostly on an America that harks back to popular
                    images of the 1930s or to the "Honeymooner" lifestyle of the Cramdens and the
                    Nortons in the 1950s. These are good people who have yet to (or may never) make it, but who
                    aren't out of the running, and whose portraits are further softened by the absence of
                    stridency or bitterness. In this sense the lower-middle America portrayed here differs from the
                    Archie Bunker, hardhat images that dominated the media's middle America in the late 1960s
                    and early 1970s.
            The underlying sanity and frailty of Davis's Middletowners is the tie that binds the series.
                    The personae here are quintessential copers. They are people who have little understanding of the
                    economic, technological, and demographic forces impinging on their lives. In that, of course, they
                    are us, no matter who we are. Virtually every sequence in the series examines one or another coping
                    style or situation: the local politicians groping for popularity; the use of old-fashioned religion
                    as a gyroscope 
                    
                  LOCAL RESIDENTS FEATURED
                            IN TWO
                            OF
                            THE
                            MIDDLETOWN
                      FILMS: THE TOBEY FAMILY (LEFT), FROM "COMMUNITY
                            OF PRAISE," AND HOWIE SNIDER, FROM "FAMILY BUSINESS"
                  Photos by Elliott Erwitt/Magnum, Courtesy of Indiana Committee for the Humanities, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     in dealing with family problems; the resort to informal group
                    therapy in a family uncomfortable with religion as its guide; the transparent, peculiarly American
                    need to transform the pleasant game of basketball into a semi-philosophical, quasi-religious creed.
            Unfortunately, the sanity and humanness with which most Muncieites try to cope with vague but
                    powerful forces are less apparent in the series because of the decision made at P.B.S. not to air a
                    sixth program that focused on adolescent culture in 
                        Muncie
                    . Containing language and behavior that appalled local residents and several series
                    sponsors, the offending sequence was dropped. Had it been aired and taken in the context of the
                    series as a whole, one suspects that it would simply have provided balance to the series as a
                    variant on mainstream styles of coping in middle America. One can appreciate the local apprehension
                    that led to protest against airing the sequence yet wish that those offended by it could understand
                    that the value of the series was needlessly damaged by their actions.
            Assessing 
                  
                            Middletown
                         Revisited as a contribution to our understanding of the nature, origins, and
                    meaning of patterns of late-twentieth-century life is difficult. Despite the series'
                    pedigrees, which include the involvement of fine scholars and the support of the National Endowment
                    for the Humanities and the Indiana Committee for the Humanities, it was clearly not designed to
                    translate scholarly findings for the general public or to provide scholarly perspective on field
                    research done with camera and tape. As a document, 
                  
                            Middletown
                         Revisited is perhaps better seen as a work in the Tocquevillian tradition,
                    particularly in the branch of that tradition exemplified by modern popular literary and cinematic
                    commentaries on American culture and life. It is an analytic piece only to the degree that its
                    featured families and individuals are analytical; it is an artistic piece to the degree that Davis
                    succeeds through cinema verite in making his subjects appear real and whole. Ironically, therefore,
                    its artistic success is its analytical failure. In execution, if perhaps not in conceptualization,
                        
                  
                            Middletown
                         Revisited is in, but not of, the true Tocquevillian tradition. It is a
                    portrait of, not a documentary on, America. It is cinematic art, not cinematic humanities.
            The failure even to attempt to provide context or commentary on the views, feelings, and actions of
                    the protagonists in 
                  
                            Middletown
                         Revisited is puzzling. Filmmakers are wont to remind academics that film works
                    best as a portrayer of feeling, mood and action; that, cinematically, context must arise from  within the film itself, not as an arbitrary intrusion of
                    scholarly words. Yet we can all think of cases where "talking heads" have, in
                    fact, worked well—some of us may even admire the likes of Alistair Cooke and Carl Sagan.
                    That contrary examples abound says nothing about the potential to use external as well as internal
                    commentary in filmmaking. My suspicion is that filmmakers who abjure "talking
                    heads" do so as artists alternately appalled at the thought of ruining perfectly good
                    footage with stuffy academic postscripts or aggrieved at the possibility that the commentator might
                    steal the show. It seems unlikely that a filmmaker of Davis's calibre would fall victim to
                    the former problem; as to the latter, one need only remember that for all the exposure Cosmos gave to Sagan, it hardly hurt the reputation of the producer, Adrian Malone.
            The fact that Davis was unwilling or unable to sense his subjects' inability to provide
                    context themselves, and unwilling (not unable) to do anything to fill that vacuum
                    was, in the end, doubly detrimental to the series. Lacking context, 
                  
                            Middletown
                         Revisited falls short as a truly exceptional inquiry into its subject, just as
                        Democracy in America would have had Toc-queville, like most
                    traveller-essayists, been content to describe what he saw. Moreover, its failure to provide context
                    may well account for the success of the protests leading to cancellation of the controversial
                    episode. Admittedly, this is an assertion, but it is an assertion premised on the critical role that
                    interpretation plays in helping people decide what to make of controversial acts or works.
                    Abjuration of that role has numerous risks. For 
                  
                            Middletown
                         Revisited and its audience, the price was paid twice.
            To lament the ramifications of the producer's decision to ignore the value of context and
                    assessment is not, however, to say that 
                  
                            Middletown
                         Revisited lacks quality or significance. Thinking about the meaning of
                    behavior requires a body of texts that scholars and citizens can interpret, separately or together.
                        
                  
                            Middletown
                         Revisited is such a text, often a compelling and provocative one. So long as
                    it is understood as an impressionistic, highly personal revelation of the hearts and minds of a
                    special segment of America caught in the act of coping, its place in the American tradition of
                    self-examination will be neither ignored nor exaggerated. While it does not deepen or amend the work
                    of scholars like the Lynds, it verifies the experiential reality that, among other things, lures
                    middle Americans to the tales of coping—comedic and melodramatic— that
                    saturate late-century popular culture in America. Having  viewed
                    this series, this reviewer feels no closer to understanding why modern times produce one response or
                    another but better able to understand why many Americans relate so well to the likes of Laverne and
                    Shirley.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               View from the State House: Recollections and Reflections, 1961–1964.
                    By Matthew E. Welsh. Indiana Historical Collections, Volume LIV. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Bureau, 1981. Pp. xxx, 290. Illustrations, notes, tables, map,
                    appendixes, figures, index. Clothbound, $21.00; paperbound, $11.00.)
            As Professors York Willbern and Karl O'Lessker point out in their introductory essay in this
                    book, Matthew E. Welsh's governorship can lay just claim to special significance in the
                    recent history of Indiana for substantial accomplishments in such areas as civil rights, educational
                    reorganization, and the restructuring of state finances. Moreover, the popular Democratic
                    governor's success in carrying out a relatively liberal legislative program was achieved in
                    the face of a divided legislature and a Republican lieutenant governor in a state rightfully
                    regarded as wedded to a tradition of conservative politics. Thus Welsh's memoir of his
                    years in office comes as a particularly welcome source for the study of the state's recent
                    political history. For the most part it is a modestly stated, straightforward account, perhaps
                    rather blander than might be expected in its treatment of some of the controversies of the time, but
                    generally informative and even insightful. The memoir is especially good in showing how the governor
                    owed much of his effectiveness in getting legislation passed to his patience, his unshakably
                    moderate stance, and his prior experience as both a representative and senator in six sessions of
                    the Indiana General Assembly.
            In many ways the most interesting passages are the initial and the final sections, which deal
                    respectively with the gubernatorial campaign in 1960 and the presidential primary race four years
                    later. The first is a lively account, written with the assistance of campaign aide Richard Martin,
                    of how Welsh secured the Democratic gubernatorial nomination and went on to an upset victory over
                    his Republican opponent in an election in which the GOP won all but one of the remaining state
                    offices and Richard Nixon rang up a resounding majority over John Kennedy in the contest for
                    Indiana's electoral vote. In the last section Welsh collaborates with James McManus, his
                    news aide, in telling the often dramatic story of his successful campaign to defeat 
                        Alabama
                     governor George Wallace's presidential bid by standing in for Lyndon Johnson
                    on the 1964 Indiana primary ballot.
            Throughout the volume the former governor is careful to share credit for what was achieved with other
                    members of his  administrative team, and he adds at the close a
                    series of brief vignettes on the activities and leadership of the various executive branches. Eight
                    appendixes contain useful statistical tables as well as short narratives by two of Welsh's
                    close associates, Democratic legislative leader S. Hugh Dillin and Donald Foltz, director of the
                    Department of Conservation; also included is a list of state and county officers of both the
                    Democratic and Republican parties during the years 1961–1964. Although one might wish for
                    more intimate revelations of the governor's mind and spirit, historians of Indiana can
                    indeed be grateful for the publication of this memoir.
            
               DePauw University, 
                            Greencastle
                        , Ind. Clifton J. Phillips
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        : Hoosiers' Circle City. By George W. Geib. (Tulsa: Continental
                    Heritage Press, 1981. Pp. 224. Illustrations, maps, indexes. $24.95.)
            Pictorial histories of American cities are hardy perennials for bookstore windows, public library
                    shelves, and coffee tables. The last decade has brought coast-to-coast series from at least three
                    publishing houses, in addition to numerous one-time efforts.
            The present volume on 
                        Indianapolis
                     is an example of the genre at its best. George W. Geib, as senior author, contributes a
                    narrative of growth and continuity in the evolution of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . His readable survey of the city touches on the high points of politics, the evolving
                    employment base, and the growth of public institutions. It also provides a capsule summary of the
                    changing face of downtown and the life cycle of 
                        Indianapolis
                     neighborhoods. Outside readers will be struck by the degree to which land use in 
                        Indianapolis
                     has recapitulated the typical American urban pattern. Unlike much local history, which
                    often bogs down with the pioneer generation, 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                     gives more emphasis to the emerging metropolis of the twentieth century than to the struggling
                    town and small city of the nineteenth.
            The illustrations also make a major contribution. The historical material includes reproductions of
                    maps and documents as well as old photographs and drawings. Timothy Peterson, the historical
                    photography editor, drew most of the material from the collections of the Indiana Historical
                    Society, but he also tapped corporate collections, newspaper files, and other public institutions.
                    The book includes more than fifty contemporary photographs by Darryl Jones.
            
            A fundamental requirement of an illustrated history is quality production. 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                     meets the test. The illustrations are clearly reproduced and are well placed. The core
                    narrative is supplemented by short, independent photo-essays, boxed quotes, and excerpted sidelights
                    on local events.
            The last section of the book revives an old tradition in local history by providing six-hundred-word
                    sketches of thirty-eight business firms and nonprofit institutions that assisted the project as
                    "corporate sponsors." There is no evidence that the corporate contributors
                    influenced the body of the book, and the sketches recognize the role of private business as the
                    major determinant of 
                        Indianapolis
                    's growth.
            
               
                  
                            Portland
                         State University, 
                     Portland, Oregon
                  
                Carl Abbott
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Middletown
                         Families: Fifty Years of Change and Continuity. By Theodore Caplow. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1982. Pp. ix, 436. Tables, illustrations, appendixes, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $16.95.)
            In 1924 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, became the site for an extraordinary sociological research project. Robert
                    and Helen Lynd undertook the first comprehensive description of the life of a contemporary American
                    community, later published as 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                    . In the midst of the Great Depression the Lynds took a second look at 
                        Muncie
                     in 
                  
                            Middletown
                         in Transition, a pioneering measurement of social change. Since the mid-1970s
                    scholars from the University of 
                        Virginia
                    , Brigham Young University, and elsewhere, calling their project 
                        Middletown
                     III, have reexamined 
                        Muncie
                     using their own questions as well as the Lynds's to assess continuity and
                    change after a half century. No other American community has been so carefully scrutinized over so
                    long a time as 
                        Muncie
                    , and none has contributed more to an understanding of how ordinary people live.
            
               
                  
                            Middletown
                         Families, the first of several planned 
                        Middletown
                     III volumes, presents a picture of general social stability and progress. Since 1924 
                        Muncie
                     has doubled in size, acquiring more young people (due to its growing state university)
                    and blacks, but, the authors conclude, it has remained recognizably the same community. Working
                    class-business class distinctions, which the Lynds found pronounced, are reported to have largely
                    disappeared as economic conditions improved. The federal government's expanding presence
                    since the 1930s assisted efforts by all groups to achieve traditional family goals  such as home ownership, higher education, and care for the aged. Sex
                    role distinctions have softened, affecting adults and the treatment of children. The percentage of
                    women employed outside the home has doubled, although they still bear the principal burden of
                    housework. Parent-child conflict appears no greater and kinship ties seem stronger than in the
                    Lynds's time. Despite talk of sexual revolution, 
                        Middletown
                     III questions its extent. Premarital sexual experience is common but limited and
                    unconventional relationships rare. The quality of marriage has improved substantially in 
                        Muncie
                     during the past half century, 
                        Middletown
                     III concludes. Family life is happy and fulfilling for most, while the acceptability of
                    divorce and remarriage offers hope to the exceptions.
            This return to 
                        Middletown
                     may disappoint some readers. 
                        Middletown
                     III lacks the Lynds's rich descriptive detail and their tight focus on 
                        Muncie
                    . It attempts to answer several questions with information from other communities rather
                    than obtaining fresh data about 
                        Muncie
                    . At least one chapter, a discussion of holidays, relates to neither 
                        Muncie
                     nor any other specific community. The Lynds's great achievement was to present
                    a full, rounded portrait of one community, eschewing national generalizations. The 
                        Middletown
                     III project will enhance its already considerable contribution if its remaining volumes
                    more closely follow their remarkable example.
            
               University of Akron, 
                     Akron, Ohio
                  
                David E. Kyvig
         
         
            
               On the 
                            Illinois
                         Frontier: Dr. Hiram Rutherford, 1840–1848. Edited by Willene
                    Hendrick and George Hendrick. (Carbondale: Southern Illinois University Press, 1981. Pp. xxv, 155.
                    Notes, illustrations, bibliography, index. $19.95.)
            Hiram Rutherford, a mid-nineteenth-century 
                        Illinois
                     physician, gained prominence as an abolitionist rather than as a doctor. He is best
                    remembered as a participant in the Matson slave case, a controversial trial in which Abraham Lincoln
                    defended a slaveowner. Editors Willene Hendrick and George Hendrick present in this slender volume 
                        Rutherford
                    's letters and writings as well as their own interpretation of his role in the
                    Matson slave case. The editors' intention is not to present a complete biography of 
                        Rutherford
                    , but to illustrate "vivid and illuminating fragments of his life and times in 
                        Illinois
                    " (p. 143).
            
               On the 
                            Illinois
                         Frontier is divided into three sections. The first contains all of 
                        Rutherford
                    's extant correspondence from  1840 to
                    1848. Most of the letters were written by 
                        Rutherford
                     to John Bowman, a 
                        Pennsylvania
                     merchant. 
                        Rutherford
                    's purpose in writing Bowman was to convince him to emigrate to 
                        Illinois
                     so he could marry Bowman's sister. The second section consists of articles by 
                        Rutherford
                     about life in early 
                        Illinois
                    , written in 1877 for a local newspaper. The editors justly claim these articles are
                    "notable for their sense of time and place, for their humor, for their characterizations,
                    and for the picture they give of an educated physician observing the people and events of a newly
                    settled area" (p. 70). While most reminiscences are notorious for their praise of a
                    town's first settlers, 
                        Rutherford
                    's articles are remarkably candid. These articles, as well as 
                        Rutherford
                    's letters, appear well edited and are adequately annotated.
            The final section of the book details 
                        Rutherford
                    's involvement in the Matson slave case. Although their account is informative,
                    the editors have ignored important primary sources in reconstructing the events of the case.
                    Considering its brevity, inclusion of this section in the introduction would have been more
                    appropriate.
            The editors succeed in presenting interesting facets of 
                        Rutherford
                    's early life, but they have perhaps misunderstood the significance of his
                    writings. The introduction emphasizes 
                        Rutherford
                    's medical training and the general practice of medicine in the period. Not
                    only is their introduction inadequately researched, it is inappropriate to the documents presented.
                    The major portion of 
                        Rutherford
                    's correspondence and articles pertain to the citizens, institutions, trades,
                    and industry of 
                        Illinois
                    . 
                        Rutherford
                    's account books and medical school lecture notes, while utilized, are not
                    fully exploited. 
                        Rutherford
                    's letters and articles are only tangentially important to the medical
                    historian.
            
               History Museum, Indianapolisand Indiana Medical Indiana Historical Society
                    Katherine Mandusic McDonell
         
         
            
               Frontierswomen: The 
                            Iowa
                         Experience. By Glenda Riley. (Ames: 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1981. Pp. xv, 211. Map, illustrations, tables, notes,
                    bibliographic essay, index. $18.95.)
            Unlike most political and economic historians, earlier generations of frontier historians did not
                    ignore women. But the women they included are not the stuff of common humanity. Based on Hamlin
                    Garland or Ole Röolvaag, these portraits showed women either crushed or sanctified by the
                    frontier.  They tell more about the authors'
                    conceptions of "true womanhood than they do about women's lives on the frontier.
            Glenda Riley's Frontierswomen looks at how women actually lived in one
                    part of the American West. She focuses on white women who settled in 
                        Iowa
                     from 1830, when an illegal squatter and her husband moved into Keokuk, to 1870, when 
                        Iowa
                     no longer satisfied the census definition of a frontier. She poses essential questions:
                    Who were frontierswomen? Why did they go West? What work did they do? How did the Civil War matter?
                    Did the frontier foster "strong-minded" women?
            Riley approaches these questions by looking at individuals and by determining the range of answers.
                    She looks past the white, Anglo-Saxon, Protestant "Madonna of the Prairies" and
                    sees also black and European women in those covered wagons. She remembers too that Native American
                    women peopled the frontier. Riley finds unwilling migrants, but also others married and single who
                    chose to move West or who at least recognized their own stake in a move decided by others.
            Riley examines the range of women's chores and notes the irony of the census label for
                    married women farmers—"not gainfully employed." She recognizes the
                    difficulties that women faced when their husbands went to the Civil War. But, she finds, "
                        Iowa
                     women quickly learned to manage a frontier society and a wartime society with
                    remarkable results" (p. 134). Like their urban sisters, 
                        Iowa
                     frontier women carried on war relief work. Like their feminist sisters elsewhere, but
                    not in unusually large numbers, some 
                        Iowa
                     women lifted the banner of suffragism after the war.
            Thanks to the work of Riley, Julie Roy Jeffrey, Sandra L. Myers, Lillian Schlissel, John Mack
                    Farragher, and others, historians now understand more clearly the nature of frontier life for women.
                    And historians may now pose additional questions. The first might be what frontier women thought
                    about themselves and their world. What role did the church, neighbors, and women in 
                        Omaha
                     or 
                        Boston
                     play in defining these women's views? Did frontier women read? Did they read
                        Godey's Lady's Book? Did they mail order Butterick patterns?
                    Did they take credit for their contributions to the farm or discount themselves by saying simply
                    that they "helped"?
            As Riley correctly notes, historians of frontier women face multiple difficulties with
                    sources—the usual problems of research on women. But with books such as Frontierswomen available, frontier historians no longer must accept the illusions of the
                    forefathers.
            
               Saint John's University, Collegeville, Minn. Annette Atkins
         
         
         
            
               A Frontier Family in 
                            Minnesota
                        : Letters of Theodore and Sophie Bost, 1851–1920. Edited and
                    translated by Ralph H. Bowen. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1981. Pp. xxv, 391. Maps, illustrations, notes, index. Clothbound,
                    $25.00; paperbound, $12.95.)
            
               A Frontier Family in 
                            Minnesota
                        
                is more than a translation of Charles-Marc Bost's French edition of
                    letters from Theodore and Sophie Bost to Theodore's family. Ralph H. Bowen has added more
                    letters, an introduction, and new notes to make the American edition richer than the French.
            Theodore Bost came to the 
                        United States
                     in 1851. His most successful venture was courting Sophie Bonjour by mail. They married
                    the day after she arrived in 
                  St. Paul, Minnesota
               , from 
                        Switzerland
                    , in 1858. Sophie acted as ballast for Theodore's swings in mood, and her hard
                    work compensated for his frequent ill health. Excepting Theodore's trip to 
                        France
                     to see family and get medical treatment in 1871, the couple worked together for
                    sixty-two years. The letters span seventy years, beginning with Theodore's farming
                    apprenticeship in 
                        Switzerland
                     and ending with a letter from Sophie describing his death.
            Women's historians will appreciate seeing the same events through both Sophie's and
                    Theodore's eyes. Sophie took a much different view of childbirth, farming, their neighbors,
                    and events than did Theodore. For example, while Sophie dreamed "that my children were
                    butchered before my eyes" (p. 214), Theodore claimed "we were sleeping peacefully
                    in our isolated house" (p. 212) at the height of the Sioux uprising in 1862. Immigration
                    and Civil War historians will find Theodore's opinions interesting. His criticism of
                    American culture, the weather, and other immigrants reveals the difficulty of adjusting to a new
                    home. As a staunch antislavery Republican, Theodore's comments shed light on support for
                    Lincoln's war measures.
            The letters provide insight into the frustrations of those who expected to achieve a comfortable life
                    on the frontier. Bost's brothers were merchants and ministers in Europe. The Bosts moved
                    out of their leaky log cabin into a frame house and purchased a piano and sewing machine for Sophie
                    only with financial help from his family. They scrambled for a better income by keeping bees,
                    renting rooms in the summer, and teaching. Despite his status as a justice of the peace and a tax
                    assessor, Theodore's income was never secure. In 1874 he gave up farming, borrowing the
                    money from his brother to open a store in Excelsior, but after five years Sophie and Theodore  returned to farming. Six years later they left 
                        Minnesota
                     for 
                        California
                    . The few letters written after 1878, especially those few from 
                        California
                    , add little to the book, except to bring Theodore's life to a close.
            The collection is clearly edited with detailed notes and introductions which fill in the gaps between
                    letters. The volume is not compelling reading, but it is a useful addition to the literature on
                    early 
                        Minnesota
                     and nineteenth-century life.
            
               St. Olaf College, Northfield, Minn. Joan Gundersen
         
         
            
               The Abraham Lincoln Encyclopedia. By Mark E. Neely, Jr. (
                        New York
                    : McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1982. Pp. xii, 356. Sources, illustrations, tables, index.
                    $45.00.)
            At casual glance this spacious, abundantly illustrated book might seem destined for the coffee table.
                    On closer inspection, however, one quickly discovers that Mark E. Neely, Jr., director of the Louis
                    A. Warren Lincoln Library and Museum at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , has produced a simply splendid guide to Lincoln's world, a volume of immense
                    value to buffs and scholars alike. Included are 337 informative, well-crafted, often original
                    entries on Lincoln's contemporaries, places where he lived and worked, issues and events
                    which shaped his career, and the collectors and biographers who preserved his memory. Wellchosen
                    illustrations (mainly photographic portraits and political cartoons) accompany most of the articles.
            Neely keeps his eye firmly fixed on Abraham Lincoln. Persons who influenced his era but not Lincoln
                    himself (e.g., Emerson, Garrison, W.T. Sherman) rate no separate entry; sketches of contemporaries
                    who are included highlight their relationship with Lincoln; and articles on 
                        Washington
                    , Jefferson, and 
                        Clay
                     treat only Lincoln's views about such heroes. Not only the
                    great, but the humble and lowly whose lives brushed Lincoln's are to be found in this
                    book—even Grace Bedell, who suggested that Lincoln grow a beard; Horatio Taft, father of
                    Willie and Tad Lincoln's 
                        Washington
                     playmates; Henry Wikoff, briefly a regular in Mary Lincoln's White House
                    salon; and Mrs. Lincoln's dressmaker, Elizabeth Keckley. Indeed, Neely extravagantly gives
                    as much space to his portrait of Mrs. Keckley as he does to Andrew Johnson, Joshua Speed
                    ("Lincoln's only intimate friend"), Conscription, or Popular Sovereignty.
            
            The quality of these essays is uniformly high. All rest upon the latest scholarship, make good use of
                    Lincoln's own letters and speeches, and possess a consistency and coherence which only a
                    single author could provide. Neely approaches Lincoln with sympathetic understanding but also with a
                    clear-eyed awareness of the foibles which made him human. Even the most controversial subjects, such
                    as Lincoln's record on civil liberties and his supposed losing battle against
                    Marfan's Syndrome, receive balanced, sensible treatment. Among the best articles are those
                    on Mary Todd Lincoln, Poetry, the Whig Party, 
                        Kentucky
                    , Dr. Mudd, and Humor. (This last entry even includes a smutty poem of the sort Lincoln
                    apparently loved to tell.) The price is steep, but the book is worth every penny.
            
               University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        -
                            Madison
                        
                Richard H. Sewell
         
         
            
               The Union Cavalry in the Civil War. Volume II, The War in the East:
                        From 
                            Gettysburg
                         to Appomattox, 1863–1865. By Stephen Z. Starr. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1981. Pp. xv, 526. Illustrations, notes, maps, bibliography,
                    index. $30.00.)
            The second volume of Stephen Z. Starr's trilogy about the Union cavalry could have been
                    entitled "Sheridan's Cavalry." It tells of the vast changes in the
                    organization, morale, and activities of the cavalry in 
                        Virginia
                     after General Philip Sheridan took command in 1864. At that time much of the cavalry
                    still was detailed to the infantry, serving in small units as scouts, wagon guards, couriers, and
                    cattle drovers. Sheridan brought these troops together into a powerful, aggressive fighting force
                    that played a major role in the Union victory.
            The book has excellent descriptions of all the cavalry action from 
                        Gettysburg
                     to Appomattox—and there was lots of action—but Starr also
                    describes the problems of keeping the large mounted force in the field. Even after three years of
                    war, the supply system could not provide the horses and forage needed by the cavalry.
            It is difficult to follow the movements of the cavalry on the maps included in the book; otherwise,
                    Starr's work is excellent. Better than any other book, it gives the Civil War student an
                    understanding of the very large contribution made by the cavalry in achieving the final victory.
            
               
                  
                            Columbus
                        , Ind. John W. Rowell
         
         
         
            
               Conservative Ordeal: Northern Democrats and Reconstruction,
                    1865–1868. By Edward L. Gambill. (Ames: 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1981. Pp. viii, 188. Notes, bibliographic essay, index.
                    $15.95.)
            Despite the attention historians have lavished on Reconstruction politics, most scholars have either
                    ignored the northern Democrats or treated them as a monolithic group of obstructionists. As Edward
                    L. Gambill demonstrates in this tightly organized monograph, northern Democrats were as torn by
                    factionalism as their Republican opponents. Adding detail to the recent work on northern Democrats
                    by Joel Silbey, Gambill shows how the Democratic party emerged from the Civil War with a stigma of
                    treason and without effective leadership.
            The party stumbled through the Reconstruction period searching for political and ideological
                    direction. Though wary of President Andrew Johnson and his conservative Republican advisors,
                    northern Democrats found themselves defending the president from the attacks of moderate and radical
                    Republicans. Yet the rapprochement between Johnson and his former party comrades was never complete,
                    and such movements for formal cooperation as the National Union party died aborning, destroyed by
                    mutual suspicion and bankrupt political strategy. Gambill argues that Democrats pursued a suicidal
                    policy of resistance to federal reconstruction policies and often obstructed compromise efforts
                    between President Johnson and the Republican majority in Congress. Although the author criticizes
                    the Democrats for appealing to northern racism, his own evidence proves that this was the only issue
                    that brought the party success. But even after striking victories in 1867, no strong national
                    leaders emerged; Horatio Seymour, George Pendleton, and Frank Blair were only pale reflections of
                    Stephen A. Douglas.
            Gambill asserts that the Democrats unintentionally helped the Republicans by rekindling the war
                    issues, and indeed in the short term the party faced disaster at the polls. Many readers will note,
                    however, the long-range effectiveness of Democratic strategy, for by 1874 the party had overcome the
                    opposition's bloody shirt tactics and recaptured control of the House of Representatives.
            The author has examined the relevant newspapers and manuscript collections. He has written a
                    straightforward and largely uninspired narrative. Gambill's Democrats appear lifeless, and
                    there is not one interesting personal anecdote in the entire book. There are serious limitations to
                    this simple approach  to the subject. The author should have
                    analyzed Democratic voting patterns in Congress more rigorously; he makes perceptive comments on
                    particular pieces of legislation but attempts no overall interpretation. Despite some passing
                    remarks in the first chapter on constituency, Gambill neglects not only the rank and file but the
                    relationship of national issues to state and local ones. Might the Democrats, for example, have more
                    effectively exploited the ethnic and cultural divisions of the era? Although this book contains much
                    new information, there is still need for a solid, interpretative history of the northern Democrats
                    during Reconstruction.
            
               Anderson College Anderson, Ind. George Rable
         
         
            
               Life, Work, and Rebellion in the Coal Fields: The Southern 
                            West Virginia
                         Miners, 1880–1922. By David Alan Corbin. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1981. Pp. xix, 294. Notes, illustrations, bibliographical essay, selected
                    bibliography, index. Clothbound, $24.95; paperbound, $12.50.)
            For years American labor history was the preserve of institutional historians. The focus was on the
                    rise of trade unions and their presumed role in dominating the goals and consciousness of American
                    workers, developments which were hailed as another variant of the theme of progress in American
                    history. The last decade, however, has produced a revolution in historical scholarship on American
                    labor. Historians have demonstrated that American workers have been more than narrowly focused
                    toilers who followed the dictates of their union leaders and simply sought wage increases and job
                    security. The most important insight emerging from the broader view of the American worker has been
                    the social and cultural context in which workers shaped their thought and protest. Studies have
                    shown them attempting to achieve social justice and equality, control of the work place, and even
                    family stability.
            David Alan Corbin's excellent study of southern 
                        West Virginia
                     miners and their widespread protest in the years after 1880 provides another dimension
                    to the expanding definition of working-class culture in America. Corbin's miners marched on
                    government officials and fought protracted battles with state police not just as a response to
                    simple economic problems but ultimately because they tired of the confinement of their company towns
                    and felt that in America people should be treated  with more
                    dignity. These miners were not rampaging radicals or social revolutionaries but advocates of human
                    versus purely economic values. They espoused what Corbin labels "Americanism," a
                    call for "liberty, equality, and dignity" to all people and freedom from the
                    "absolutism of the coal companies" (p. 241). Corbin's miners, in other
                    words, were culture-bearing individuals shaped by long traditions of justice and the harsh realities
                    of the company town as well as economic hardship.
            Corbin is particularly penetrating when he analyzes the role of religion in mining enclaves. He
                    rightly notes the strong religious tradition that all men, whether they were southern whites,
                    blacks, or European immigrants, brought to the mining camps. He also deftly points out that miners
                    soon recognized that company-controlled churches could not satisfy their spiritual needs, especially
                    when most preachers admonished men against joining unions. In 
                        West Virginia
                     the workers' solution was to transfer their religious fervor and economic
                    discontent to the one institution which gave them an outlet—the United Mine Workers of
                    America.
            This is certainly the stuff of provocative and insightful history. Corbin's account
                    contributes mightily to the dawning realization that culture and class were far from mutually
                    exclusive in industrial America.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                John Bodnar
         
         
            
               Women and American Socialism, 1870–1920. By Mari Jo Buhle. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1981. Pp. xix, 344. Notes, illustrations, index. $21.95.)
            In Women and American Socialism, 1870–1920, Mari Jo Buhle traces the
                    history of the American socialist women's movement from its German-American origins in the
                    1870s to its collapse during the World War and Red Scare. This comprehensive and meticulously
                    researched treatment will become the definitive work on the subject.
            The history of the socialist women's movement as recounted by Buhle is the story of the
                    recurrent tension between class consciousness and gender consciousness. These themes emerge through
                    the "interplay of two parallel traditions, immigrant and native-born, with wholly different
                    modes of organi zation and world views" (p. xiii). German-American women, part of a
                    tradition that glorified women's place in the home and subordinated the women's
                    question to the class struggle, made the women's auxiliary their distinctive contribution
                    to the unfolding  socialist movement. Native-born socialists in
                    the women's movement of the 1880s and 1890s rejected the notion that class superceded
                    gender. They developed the independent women's club as their organizational form, sought to
                    remain separate from the male-dominated socialist movement, and placed a deep faith in the power of
                    womanly virtue to transform society. After the turn of the century, a new generation of women formed
                    the Socialist Party's Women's National Committee. The WNC abandoned the
                    nineteenth-century notion of women's "agency" and sought to make women
                    equal participants in the life of Socialist locals. The tensions between gender and class would not
                    go away, however. Questions relating to women in the labor movement, equal suffrage, and sexual
                    emancipation demanded separate approaches and special solutions. These unresolved problems, lukewarm
                    support from the party, and the general crisis of the left during the years 1917–1919 led
                    to the demise of the WNC and the collapse of the Socialist women's movement.
            The weakness of Buhle's book is that, although it is an excellent account of the activities
                    of the faithful, it fails to deal with the fact that much of their message fell on deaf ears. Why
                    were so many women unsympathetic or indifferent to socialism or the Socialist party? Buhle notes
                    that Socialist candidates in some localities blamed women for electoral defeats, but she regards
                    these reports as atypical. Was this really the case? The problem of women's
                    "alleged conservative tendencies" (p. 18) cannot be brushed off so lightly. If
                    Buhle's effort is a first step toward a rewriting of the history of American socialism, as
                    she suggests it might be, this sort of question must be dealt with.
            
               Indiana Historical Society 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Errol Wayne Stevens
         
         
            
               Sister Carrie. By Theodore Dreiser. The 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Edition. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Press, 1981. Pp. xi, 679. Notes, maps, illustrations. Clothbound, $40.00;
                    pa-perbound, $14.95.)
            Here is all you ever wanted to know about Theodore Dreiser's famous first novel, Sister Carrie—and probably much more. This edition is tailor made for
                    the Dreiser scholar rather than for the casual reader, for not only is the original manuscript of
                    the book restored, but there are nearly two hundred pages of additional material. Included are a
                    "Historical Commentary," which traces the entire history of the writing of the  novel from "Manuscript to Print"; notes and
                    maps of "Sister Carrie's 
                        Chicago
                    " and "Sister Carrie's 
                        New York
                    "; photographs, such as of places figuring in the story in 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        New York
                    ; plus helpful historical notes on each chapter. In addition, there are a
                    "Textual Commentary" stating the principles that the editors used in developing
                    this edition of the novel and a "Textual Apparatus" giving "Selected
                    Emendations in the Copy-
                        Text
                    ." The latter shows the exact revisions made in the manuscript by
                    Dreiser's first wife, Sara White Dreiser; by Dreiser's friend, Arthur Henry; by
                    Dreiser himself; and other changes. Included also are Dreiser's revised endings for
                    Chapters XLIX and L; "Sara White Dreiser's Revised Ending for Chapter L,"
                    which has been printed in all previously published editions; "Block Cuts Marked by Arthur
                    Henry and Accepted by Dreiser"; the chapter titles that were used in the Doubleday, Page
                    and Company edition; notes on Dreiser's word division; and a listing of all the editions of
                    the novel. Much of all this material will prove superfluous or tedious to many readers, but to the
                    Dreiser scholar it represents an incredibly painstaking and almost miraculous process of revelation,
                    not only about the novel as Dreiser originally wrote it but also about the author and his intentions
                    in the book.
            Sara Dreiser's revisions, mostly of mechanics, had the effect of making the characters speak
                    more formally than her husband had intended; Arthur Henry's cutting removed most of the
                    references to sex, so Hurstwood appears to have an idealistic love for Carrie, and Drouet's
                    pursuit of other women even while he is living with Carrie is reduced to innocent flirtation. Also,
                    since Henry lacked a real understanding of Dreiser's intentions, his cuts resulted in a far
                    less deterministic impression. Altogether Henry and Dreiser cut about 36,000 words, some 70 pages,
                    from the original. The first publisher, Double-day, required that all real names be changed and that
                    much of the profanity be omitted. The result of all these changes is that in the previously
                    published versions Carrie has less conscience and emotional depth, Hurstwood's possible
                    weaknesses (such as his extramarital adventures before he meets Carrie) are removed, Drouet becomes
                    a more likeable person, and 
                        Ames
                     is less haughty and more believable. Furthermore, Dreiser's Spencerian
                    philosophy that man is insignificant, is controlled by fate, and cannot find lasting happiness is
                    muted. The claim of the editors of this edition that the restoration of the original version results
                    in "a more somber and unresolved work of art" (p. ix) is correct.
            
            Of interest to Hoosier readers and scholars is the fact that Dreiser erred in placing 
                        Columbia City
                    , the Indiana town from which Carrie goes to 
                        Chicago
                     to seek her fortune, in 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Also, he brazenly adapted in his Chapter I a passage from George Ade's
                    sketch, "The Fable of the Two Mandolin Players and the Willing Performer,"
                    published in Fables in Slang in 1899.
            The editors of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     edition claim that it "is the first full-dress scholarly edition of the
                    novel" and that "the resulting text … should not be thought of as
                    ‘definitive.’ There will never be a ‘definitive’ text
                        of Sister Carrie" (p. 589). However, if their text is not definitive,
                    it is probably as close as scholars will ever get. And it will possibly discourage others from such
                    an attempt.
            
               DePauw University 
                            Greencastle
                        , Ind. Arthur W. Shumaker
         
         
            
               News from the White House: The Presidential–Press Relationship in the
                        Progressive Era. By George Juergens. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1981. Pp. x, 338. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $25.00.)
            During the Progressive Era at the beginning of this century, both the presidency and the press
                    underwent transformations resulting in their modernization. The often turbulent relationship between
                    these two old antagonists was never more interesting than during these two decades. As publicity
                    became an ever more significant factor in presidential leadership, a president's relations
                    with the press became more crucial. All the while, the press grew in power and acquired many forms
                    familiar to today's reader. The interaction between these two institutions during a period
                    recognized as formative for modern America provides the grist for interesting history.
            George Juergens approaches his subject from the perspective of the three Progressive Era presidents.
                    Theodore Roosevelt appears as the exciting figure he was; William Howard Taft as a bungler lost in
                    his own ineptitude; and Woodrow Wilson as an eloquent but stern statesmen who lacked the common
                    touch. There is, of course, nothing new in these profiles. Nevertheless, what the author manages to
                    accomplish in centering his book around them is to convey the idea that the manner in which a
                    twentieth-century president deals with the press reveals a good deal about him as a person and
                    leader. Juergens finds Theodore Roosevelt particularly effective in  handling his press relations. He was a gifted newsmaker who thrived on
                    the personal element in his relationship with newsmen; he was fascinated by journalism and
                    understood the medium. Some of the book's most interesting passages deal with
                    Roosevelt's management of news and his rapport with the 
                        Washington
                     correspondents. Wilson's style of dealing with the press contrasted with
                    Roosevelt's. Yet in Wilson's time, as the author explains, the press acquired more
                    of its modern posture. Especially through the introduction of the presidential press conference,
                    Wilson developed a structure for dealing with the press that was a harbinger of things to come.
                    Juergens considers the press relations of Roosevelt and Wilson at length and allows readers to see
                    these men in their moments of irritation as well as triumph with journalists. By comparison, he
                    devotes one chapter, accurately entited "The Wrong Man," to President Taft. That
                    is space enough in which to explain this president's mishandling of press relations.
                    Juergens suggests that American journalism had entered the age of the reporter, a fact that
                    presidents henceforth would neglect, as Taft did, at their own peril.
            
               News from the White House is an appealing book. Aside from his neglect of
                    manuscript sources, Juergens's research is impressive, and his presentation of material
                    shows sound judgment. Readers will find this a well-written, informative, and engaging volume.
            
               
                  
                            Valparaiso
                         University, 
                            Valparaiso
                        , Ind. James D. Startt
         
         
            
               Bad Blood: The Tuskegee Syphilis Experiment. By James H. Jones. (
                        New York
                    : Free Press, 1981. Pp. xii, 272. Illustrations, notes, note on sources, indexes.
                    $14.95.)
            A 
                        Washington
                    
                    Post correspondent broke the news in July of 1972: the 
                        United States
                     Public Health Service (PHS) had been conducting a study of the effects of untreated
                    tertiary syphilis on black men in Macon County, 
                        Alabama
                    , since the early 1930s. The "Tuskegee Study," so called because
                    Tuskegee was the county seat for this impoverished rural area, included as subjects 399 victims of
                    syphilis and 201 "controls" who were free from the disease. Although the disease
                    progressively ravaged its victims, the PHS made no effort to treat or cure its patients; rather, it
                    sought to compile statistics on the effects of advanced syphilis as they revealed themselves over a
                    lifetime by annual examinations and ultimately through autopsies.
            
            The subjects were not told that they had syphili—only "bad blood," which
                    was not a synonym for syphilis in the black community. In effect they suffered experimentation with
                    their bodies without their consent. They did so because they were ignorant and because they received
                    modest benefits such as a burial fee, free aspirin, and "body tonics," and were
                    often chauffered to the examination site in an automobile by a zealous black nurse who gave a
                    club-like quality to the experience.
            The "Tuskegee Study" would seem objectionable for many reasons. Only blacks were
                    used, and perhaps one hundred men experienced premature death and many others needless
                    suffering—all the more so after penicillin became an effective cure beginning in the
                    1940s and 1950s. The PHS deliberately lied to the men under study, and no data assembled in the
                    study could ever prevent, find, or cure the disease. Nevertheless, few doctors in the PHS or in
                        Macon County, where physicians assisted the study, objected to it on
                    scientific or ethical grounds. Nor was there a national outcry when findings of the study were
                    periodically made public.
            The heart of James H. Jones's book is his analysis of this response. He weighs the evidence
                    fairly and judiciously. Racism was a factor, as was the absence of an effective cure for syphilis
                    when the study began. Bureaucratic momentum and the pretensions of science to supplant conventional
                    ethics, particularly the staple that the end justifies the means, also contributed.
            This is an important and well-researched book, but it has limitations; at times it is repetitive and,
                    because of the scientific discussion, unexciting. The author might have reinforced his case with a
                    discussion of the pretensions to power of physicians of that period. And he might have allowed for
                    the humanizing influences of the 1960s, which produced the exposure and denunciations in 1972.
            
               University of West Florida, 
                            Pensacola
                        
                James R. McGovern
         
         
            
               The Unwanted Symbol: American Foreign Policy, the Cold War, and 
                            Korea
                        , 1945–1950. By Charles M. Dobbs. (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1981. Pp. xii, 239. Notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $18.50.)
            This well-researched and clearly written study of America's postwar involvement in 
                        Korea
                     illustrates that the longer the 
                        United States
                     remained in that country, the longer it had to stay. Charles M. Dobbs argues that 
                        Korea
                     was not vital to  American interests, but the
                    paradox was that "the less strategic an issue (and the less understood) the greater its
                    value as a symbol, precisely because of its unimportance" (p. 93). 
                        Korea
                     became "an unwanted symbol" of America's resistance against
                    communism (p. 1591, and as the symbol became prominent with prolonged occupation the chances for
                    withdrawal became more remote. Though the occupation command claimed no political leanings, its
                    "affinity for wealthy elements" who favored "hierarchy, order, and the
                    status quo" (p. 41) placed Americans on the side of Koreans who spoke English and against
                    the guerrilla leaders who "could not bridge the linguistic and cultural gap" (pp.
                    41–42). By January, 1949, the State Department referred to 
                        Korea
                     as the "only remaining foothold of democracy" in northeast Asia (p.
                    161), and President Truman soon declared it "a beacon to the people of northern Asia in
                    resisting the control of communist forces" (p. 162). Thus the 
                        United States
                    , Dobbs declares, built a "trap from which there would be no escape"
                    (p. 152).
            Dobbs's work raises several questions. He speculates that the Soviets believed that their
                    enemies had developed a "master plan" for the "encirclement" of
                    the USSR and "may have undertaken reasonably coordinated action in 
                        Korea
                     and Berlin to protest such a worldwide American plot" (p. 145). Thus the North
                    Koreans in June, 1948, shut off electric power in the country on the same day that the Soviets
                    blockaded Berlin, while the USSR perhaps intended its military withdrawal from 
                        North Korea
                     to pressure the 
                        United States
                     out of 
                        Germany
                     as well as 
                        South Korea
                    . On another matter, Dobbs argues that Acheson's "defense
                    perimeter" speech of January, 1950, was an attempt to exploit a rift between Moscow and
                    Peking by signalling Red 
                        China
                     that the Truman administration was dropping support for the Nationalists. But as Dobbs
                    notes, such policy was impossible in a political environment in the 
                        United States
                     that soon would take the label of "McCarthyism."
            Despite the undeniable pitfalls in America's Korean involvement, it is not clear from this
                    study that 
                        Washington
                     had a viable alternative. Immediate withdrawal in 1945 would have suggested to occupied 
                        Japan
                     a lack of commitment to democracy, and it would have demonstrated to Americans that the
                    Truman administration was unwilling to draw the line against Soviet expansion. Dobbs admits that
                    America's view of the postwar world as bipolar necessitated the belief that
                    "native communists were Soviet puppets" (p. 194) and led to the acceptance of
                    "repressive regimes" with "staunch anticommunist  credentials" (p. xi). The 
                        United States
                    , he vaguely claims, should have established "strong regional powers all
                    opposed to one another" in Asia that might have turned to 
                        Washington
                     for assistance; instead, it "opposed legitimate nationalism and allowed the 
                        Soviet Union
                     to appear as the defender and friend of anti-colonial movements" (p. 196).
                    Worse, Dobbs concludes, America's later policies in Asia followed the pattern in 
                        Korea
                    : "policy drift, the subordination of local reality to requirements of the
                    superpower confrontation, the elevation of symbols, a deepening and unwanted commitment, and,
                    finally, a quandary from which there was no escape ‘with honor’ and a minimal
                    loss of prestige" (p. 189). The combination of America's occupation of 
                        Japan
                     and the fall of 
                        China
                    , Dobbs might have emphasized, caused 
                        Korea
                     to fade as symbol and to become essential to American interests in Asia.
            
               University of 
                     Alabama,
                                Tuscaloosa
                  , Ala. Howard
                Jones
         
         
            
               Architectural Photography: Techniques for Architects, Preservationists, Historians,
                        Photographers, and Urban Planners. By Jeff Dean. (
                        Nashville
                    : American Association for State and Local History, 1981. Pp. x, 132. Illustrations,
                    figures, tables, appendixes, bibliography, index. $19.95.)
            With the growing interest in the preservation and restoration of our architectural heritage, it would
                    be hard to find a more timely publication than Jeff Dean's Architectural
                        Photography: Techniques for Architects, Preservationists, Historians, Photographers, and Urban
                        Planners. Dean's book is a primer intended specifically for the non-professional
                    photographer who may frequently need to take architectural photographs skillfully in conjunction
                    with his work or hobby. The book gives a concise review of the many problems encountered by the
                    architectural photographer and the techniques and equipment required to overcome them. Dean pays
                    particular attention to solving the problem of converging parallel lines in architectural
                    photographs, which is caused by the lack of perspective control on the lenses of most 35-millimeter
                    cameras, the standard equipment of most amateurs.
            Additionally, the author gives many useful hints on selecting the right film, lenses, screens,
                    filters, and other equipment; some basics of good photographic composition; and when the best times
                    of the day are for taking pictures. He also provides information on how to submit photographs to the
                    National  Register of Historic Places and the Historic American
                    Building Survey.
            Indeed, there is so much information in this brief volume that, unless the reader has some previous
                    knowledge, he may be overcome by all the new information. Anyone in this category might pay careful
                    attention to the frequent charts, tables, and diagrams. They are easy to comprehend and impart a
                    good understanding of the topics discussed.
            One area where the book is lacking is in its description of the schools of architectural photography.
                    The predominant school, called the "antiseptic" school, portrays buildings in
                    their most photogenic light. The other school regards these flawless photographs as
                    "misleading distortions of reality, masking truths by artificial purity" (p. 1).
                    Dean draws the line between these two schools but does not tell the reader how to take anything but
                    "antiseptic" photographs. A longer discussion in the chapter on composition,
                    dealing with the problem of how to capture the broader environment of which a building is a part,
                    would have been useful to those photo-historians who are attempting to show something about the
                    society that interacts with its architectural surroundings.
            Overall, however, the book is highly informative and easy to read. It can be recommended highly to
                    every amateur photographer.
            
               Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Timothy E. Peterson
         
         
            
               The Ambidextrous Historian: Historical Writers and Writing in the American West.
                    By C. L. Sonnichsen. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 1981. Pp. 120. Notes, bibliography, index. $9.95.)
            Historians who have had the pleasure of meeting Leland Sonnichsen have a healthy respect for his
                    scholarship and literary style—and for his charm and grace. Non-teaching historians
                    welcome his understanding of the frustrations and rewards of their work. He has bridged the gap
                    between the two segments of historical scholarship, and The Ambidextrous Historian
                    reflects that linking.
            In these essays, Sonnichsen addresses several concerns. He has sympathy and praise for the staffs of
                    small research libraries and for editors of state, local, and regional journals. He criticizes those
                    who would restrict the study of "real" history to the academy and those afraid to
                    look beyond their own small  areas of training, but he
                    encourages those who choose to deal with areas of seemingly narrow concern and do so with care and
                    skill.
            These concerns are raised in the context of the history of the West. Sonnichsen is well aware that
                    preservation of that history has its own problems: so much of it has happened so recently that it
                    often does not seem like history at all. Fortunately, as he notes in the essay "Victims of
                    Time," most pioneer communities cared that their own story be told and founded community
                    institutions through which it could be recorded.
            One group perhaps deserves more praise from Sonnichsen. As most who deal with researchers in western
                    historical agencies can attest, there is a growing group of fine teaching historians who use the
                    resources of such agencies and encourage their students to do likewise. These scholars, whose sense
                    of colleagueship goes far beyond the walls of academe, share their insights with—and
                    brighten the lives of—the librarians and editors for whom Sonnichsen has such regard.
                    They deserve his attention as well.
            
               
                  
                            Idaho
                         State Historical Society, Boise Judith Austin
         
         
            
               The Evolution of American Electoral Systems. By Paul Kleppner, Walter Dean
                    Burnham, Ronald P. Formisano, Samuel P. Hays, Richard Jensen, and William G. Shade.
                            (
                  Westport, Conn.
               : Greenwood Press, 1981. Pp. xiii, 279. Tables, notes, figures,
                    index. $29.95.)
            This volume contains essays by several prominent scholars who synthesize the results of recent
                    vigorous work, much of it their own, in political history. In keeping with the emphasis on voting
                    and parties, they use realignment elections to describe the last two centuries of American politics.
                    The essays cover many significant topics, including the functions played by parties in the political
                    system, the social bases of partisanship, partisan ideology, eligibility to vote, and why
                    realignments occurred. The authors essentially present the state of the field, with a special
                    emphasis upon the ethnocultural approach to voting and parties. As such, the book is indispensable
                    to secondary level and college history and social science teachers and also to non-professionals
                    with a serious interest in political history.
            The perspective on electoral alignment eras leads those unfamiliar with the recent scholarship into
                    new historical terrain  where many familiar landmarks lose some
                    of their significance. For example, in his chapter on the second American system, William G. Shade
                    describes Van Buren as looming far larger than Old Hickory in such important areas as the effect of
                    his presidential candidacy on voting behavior, his contribution to the development of an ideology
                    justifying political parties and party systems, and his role in organizing the Democratic party.
                    Similarly, Paul Kleppner can write about the 1850–1892 period with scant reference to the
                    Civil War except as a formative experience reinforcing the loyalty of Republican partisans in the
                    North and of Democratic partisans in the South. To Walter Dean Burnham, the significant events in
                    the Progressive Era largely lay in the changes in the rules of the political
                    game—notably, registration laws, the Australian ballot, and the southern system of
                    disfranchising laws. Thus, the precipitous decline in voter turnout during the System of
                    '96 is far more noteworthy to Burnham than Mark Hanna's maneuverings, TRs
                    thunderings, or Wilson's muddlings. The chapters by Ronald P. Formisano on the Federalist
                    period and Richard Jensen on the post-New Deal Years also present perspectives in which the
                    conventional "major events" no longer provide a useful guide to American electoral
                    behavior.
            Perhaps the most serious deficiency of the book lies in the authors' failure to view an
                    "electoral system" as something other than an era bounded by realigning elections.
                    A system is usually viewed as a set of interacting elements, not as a temporal period. The authors
                    do not specify the component elements or state the nature of the relationships linking them
                    together. As a consequence, the essays are seriously weakened on two counts. First, the analysis of
                    each era is without adequate focus—there is no clear statement of which phenomena are to
                    be explained, no discussion of the causal factors to be drawn upon to explain the phenomena, and no
                    development of a research design aimed toward thoroughly measuring the relative effects of such
                    factors. Second, the chapters vary substantially in their coverage of electoral politics. Some
                    aspects of the electoral system discussed for one era are not treated fully elsewhere. Because a
                    defined system is not explicitly followed through time, the promise of the title of informing one
                    about the "evolution" of electoral systems goes unfulfilled.
            
               University of 
                            Louisville
                        
                Ray M. Shortridge
         
         
         
            INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY GRADUATE FELLOWSHIPS IN HISTORY
            Two Grants of $3,500 each for the 1983–1984 Academic Year
            
               
                  Purpose:
                  To encourage research which will contribute to an understanding of the history of Indiana
                            or of Indiana and the region of which it is traditionally a part, the Old Northwest and
                            Midwest.
               
               
                  Eligibility:
                  Applicants must be enrolled in a doctoral program in an accredited institution and have
                            completed all course work and met all requirements for the doctoral degree except the
                            research and writing of the dissertation. The dissertation subject must reflect the purpose
                            of the grant and be approved by the graduate committee of the institution.
               
               
                  Application:
                  Application forms may be obtained from the office of the Indiana Historical Society at the
                            address given below.
               
               
                   
                  Applicants must provide three letters of recommendation including one from the chairman of
                            the applicant's major department and one from the dissertation director. Documents
                            required in support are a transcript of graduate credits and a dissertation
                        prospectus.
               
               
                  Awards:
                  Winners will receive grants of $3,500 to be used for expenses connected with
                            their dissertations. One half of the grant ($1,750) will be paid September 1,
                            1983; one fourth ($8751, December 1, 1983; and one fourth upon acceptance of the
                            completed dissertation by the graduate committee.
               
               
                  Deadlines:
                  For receipt of applications March 15, 1983
               
               
                   
                  Announcements of awards May 15, 1983
               
            
            For further information and application forms write:
            Gayle Thornbrough Executive Secretary
            Indiana Historical Society 315 West Ohio Street 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46202
         
         
         
            Regional History Archives
            Indiana University East
            The following collections are now open for research in the Regional History archives of Indiana
                    University East. A detailed inventory of each collection is available.
            LUTHER M. FEEGER (1883–1975) PAPERS. For almost 60 years Feeger worked for the 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana Palladium-Item as reporter, columnist, and editor. The bulk
                    of this collection deals with his popular column on local and state history, which won several
                    awards. Much emphasis on slavery, Civil War, Indians, Quakers, and transportation. Subject and
                    correspondent card index for all letters. 4 boxes.
            EDWARD H. HARRIS (1880–1937) PAPERS. From 1910 until 1937, Harris was the Editor of the 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana Palladium-Item. During these years he served as president of
                    the Inland Press Association (1929–301, secretary of the American Newspaper Publishers
                    Association (1937), and chairman of the Publishers National Radio Committee. Business and editorial
                    affairs of the Palladium-Item constitute about one-half of the collection; the
                    remaining one-half deals with his professional offices, speeches, and personal activities. 18 boxes.
            RUDOLPH GAAR LEEDS (1886–1964) PAPERS: The owner and publisher of the 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana Palladium-Item from 1906 until 1964, Leeds was a flamboyant
                    political and social gadfly. Inheriting wealth and position from both sides of his family, he spent
                    his life indulging personal whims and crusades. The bulk of the literary collection chronicles his
                    youth, education, travels, early journalistic ventures, and the Gaar and beds families. Several
                    boxes of photographs document the same subjects. 16 boxes.
            For further information write: Director of the Library, Indiana University East, 2325
                            
                  Chester
                        Boulevard, Richmond
               , Indiana 47374.
         
         
            William Henry Harrison Papers
            The Indiana Historical Society is collecting copies of documents for a selected letterpress edition
                    of the papers of William Henry Harrison, 1800–1815. Interested individuals and
                    institutions with items for possible publication should contact Douglas E. Clanin, Editor, Indiana
                    Historical Society, 315 West Ohio Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46202.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
