
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 60, Issue 4, pages 305-381. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:60+issue:4+year:1964&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Flatboat Building on Little Raccoon Creek, 
                        Parke County
                    , Indiana∗
            
            
                    Edited by Donald F. Carmony
                
            
                    Contributed and Illustrated by Sam K. Swope
                
            Flatboats were used on the inland waterways of America from the colonial period until after the Civil
                    War. Although they varied in size and design, and were called by different names in different
                    localities, flatboats can be described generally as "cumbersome rectangular craft of light
                    draft used for downstream transportation."1 From the 1780's
                    until the 1840's boats of this type were used extensively in westward migration, one boat
                    often carrying several families, their equipment and personal belongings, and their domestic
                    animals, and serving also as their home until they reached their destination.2
                    The flatboat apparently came into use as a freight carrier on western waters during the latter part
                    of the eighteenth century. Once this "boat that never came 
                  
                     ∗ The document, "Boat Building on Little Raccoon
                            Creek," which is reproduced on pages 309-22, is owned by the 
                                Parke County
                             Historical Society. It was made available for publication and illustrated by
                            Sam K. Swope of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , a former resident of 
                                Parke County
                            .
                  
                     1 R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period,
                                1815-1840 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1961), I, 413. Buley points out the "considerable confusion"
                            over exact names and characteristics of early river craft in ibid.,
                            413-14. Descriptions of the various kinds of river boats in general use in the early
                            1800's may be found in Seymour Dunbar, A History of Travel in
                            America (4 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1915), I, 280-87; Archer 
                                Butler
                             Hulbert, Waterways of Westward Expansion: The 
                                    Ohio
                                 River and Its Tributaries (Historic Highways of America, Vol. IX; 
                                Cleveland
                            , 1903), 106-27; Charles Henry Ambler, A History of Transportation
                                in the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Valley (Glendale, Calif., 1932), 38-44; Leland D. Baldwin, The Keelboat Age on Western Waters (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1941), 42-49.
                  
                     2 Buley, Old Northwest, I, 415.
               
                     back" reached its final downstream port and its cargo
                    had been sold, the craft also was sold as lumber. The rivermen who had guided the flatboat to market
                    returned to their homes on foot—or, if the cargo had brought ususually good prices, on
                    horseback or by steamboat.3
            
            The use of flatboats for freight increased rapidly in the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     valleys following the War of 1812 as demand for the produce of mid-America increased
                    both in the 
                        United States
                     and abroad. Until after the middle of the nineteenth century most of this produce was
                    floated down the tributary streams of the 
                        Ohio
                     and the 
                        Mississippi
                     and on those rivers to markets on the lower 
                        Mississippi
                    . In 1818 "Six hundred and forty-three flat boats were counted descending the 
                        Mississippi
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    , by a person in a steam boat in his passage up."4 The
                    introduction of the steamboat for travel up the major rivers stimulated rather than discouraged the
                    use of flatboats. "With steamboat transportation available, rivermen no longer had to walk
                    back across country or laboriously to pole their keelboats upriver…. Farmers on small
                    streams inaccessible to steamboats still had to make at least the first part of their journey to
                    market by flatboat; many found it advantageous to continue on to 
                        New Orleans
                    …. By 1830 the steamboat was clearly the predominant means of transportation
                    on western rivers, but the number of flatboats continued to increase, reaching a peak in
                    1846-1847." There were 598 flatboat arrivals reported at 
                        New Orleans
                     in 1814; 2,792 by 1846-1847; and 541 in 1856-1857.5 By the Civil
                    War, however, first the steamboat and then the railroads were replacing the downstream craft as the
                    major carriers of freight.6
            
            Early flatboats were probably made by the merchants or farmers who used them. In size they ranged
                    from twelve 
                  
                     3 Hulbert, Waterways of Westward Expansion, 119,
                            124. An account of the return trip overland is in ibid., 124-27, quoting
                            from American Pioneer, March, 1842. George Rogers Taylor, The
                                Transportation Revolution, 1815-1860 (
                                New York
                            , 1951), 64.
                  
                     4
                            Niles' Weekly Register, July 11, 1818.
                  
                     5 Taylor, Transportation Revolution, 64-65.
                  
                     6 Buley, Old Northwest, I, 530. For a brief
                            discussion of the economic impact of early river shipping on the Midwest, see ibid., 531-37.
               
                     to twenty feet in width and from twenty to more than a hundred
                    feet in length. The load a flatboat could carry varied with its size and the kind of produce.
                    Estimates go as high as a hundred or more tons for the largest craft. As the demand for flatboats
                    increased, the "later boats were made by regular builders and available at the chief
                        ports."7 The document which follows is the account of how one such
                    builder constructed his flatboats in the 1830's and 1840's in southern 
                        Parke County
                    , Indiana.8
            
            John Calvin Gilkeson, the author of this description of flatboat building, was born in
                            
                  Mercer County, Kentucky
               , May 27, 1809. In 1820 his father, Thomas Gilkeson, traveled
                    to Indiana and was one of the first purchasers of land in what is now Raccoon Township in 
                        Parke County
                    . The following year he brought his wife and five children to Indiana, built a log
                    cabin, cleared a few acres, and planted corn. He is reported to have built the first sawmill on
                    Little Raccoon Creek about 1823. Young John Gilkeson worked at lumbering and milling, and from about
                    1838 to 1846 built flatboats "which he ran down to the 
                        Wabash
                     river, during the spring freshets, and sold."9 The
                    handwritten document is undated, but according to the contributor Gilkeson wrote this account of
                    flatboat building when he was over eighty years old.
            
               
                  7
                        Ibid., 530.
               
                  8 For information on flatboat construction anti use elsewhere in Indiana,
                        see Logan Esarey (ed.), The Pioneers of 
                                Morgan County
                            : Memoirs of Noah J. Major (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol.
                        V, No. 8; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1915), 396-409; William M. Cockrum, Pioneer History of Indiana,
                            Including Stories, Incidents and Customs of the Early Settlers (
                            Oakland City
                        , Ind., 1907), 508-10; "Flatboating on the 
                            Wabash
                        —A Diary of 1847," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, IX (December, 1913), 272-75; Thomas W. Records, "Flatboats," ibid., XLII (December, 1946), 323-42.
               
                  9 J. H. Beadle, "History of 
                            Parke County
                        ," 227, 228, 233-34, in H. W. Beckwith, History of 
                                Vigo
                             and 
                                Parke Counties
                            , together with Historic Notes on the 
                                Wabash
                             Valley … (
                            Chicago
                        , 1880).
            
            
            
               SKETCH MAP OF THE SOUTHWEST CORNER OF 
                            PARKE COUNTY
                        , INDIANA. THE SITE OF J. C. GILKESON'S FLATBOAT-BUILDING OPERATION
                        PROBABLY WAS IN THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF RACCOON TOWNSHIP.
            
            
            
                    Boat Building on Little Raccoon Creek1
               
                
            The first move toward the construction of the flat boat was to select a tree suitable to make what
                    was termed the gunwales, of2 then to fall it so as to lie in the right position
                    for splitting This being done the bark was hewn off each side the length required then with a large
                    chalk line. lines were struck on each side of the log as near the middle as could be guessed. then
                    one man took a chopping axe and another [a] maul and as the axe man held the edge of the axe on the
                    line the man with the maul struck the poll of the axe a blow sufficient to make a split or check in
                    the log. The axe man moving his axe some few inches forward after every blow 
                    
                  
                     1 Every effort has been to reproduce this document faithfully. The
                            writer used capital and small letters interchangeably both to begin sentences and within
                            sentences. Where the first word of a sentence clearly begins with a small letter, it has
                            been reproduced that way. Within sentences all initial letters have been reproduced as small
                            letters except where a capital letter was used to begin a proper name. The punctuation marks
                            used by the writer have been reproduced as they appear in the manuscript. Although the only
                            indention is at the beginning of the document, there are several places where a line was not
                            filled at the bottom of a page and the following page began a new sentence. This spacing has
                            been maintained. Where the meaning of a misspelled word is clear, the correct spelling has
                            not been indicated. Occasionally, however, a missing letter has been inserted where its
                            omission changed the pronunciation of a word.
                  
                     2 Perhaps the comma should have followed instead of preceded
                            "of," but here as elsewhere the writer's punctuation has been
                            followed exactly.
               
                     from the maul until the log was checked it whole length, when
                    the other side of the log was treated in the same manner. The[n] some 3 or 4 dozen wooden wedges
                    were required mostly on the small order perhaps from 4 to 10 inches long and 2 to 4 inches thick of
                    some hard wood then a number of the smaller wedges were first driven in the checks made by the axe
                    and maul. If the tree was not exactly strait grained the more wedges had to be used and the
                    splinters cut with with [sic] a wide thin bladed chisel and larger wedges used as
                    became necessary until the log was split the whole length leaving enough splinters at the top end to
                    hold it together until cut off and turned half over so as to have the split faces strait up and down
                    The halves were then barked lined and hewn to about 13 inches in thickness The sides being hewm [sic] props and stanchings were fixed at the but ends of the pieces so as to hold
                    them in position when the top portion had its spinters cut and prized apart far enough to score and
                    hew off all inequarities [sic] which occured in the splitting. Those gunwales wer
                    always split from but to top and the two parts were so far apart after splitting from 60 to 80 feet
                    that it was no great job to prop them up so as to open and part the top ends so as to hew the
                    insides of them The hewing done the next job was to get those gunwales to the boat yard 
                     and no small job at that; it required from 4 to 6 pretty good
                    yokes of oxen to get them to the yard and wo to the weakly log chain that happened to get into the
                    scrape. After being dragged from the woods to the boat yard, one end loaded on the fere [fore?] axle
                    and wheels of a stout log wagon and there chained fast and the other end trailing on the ground. The
                    next move was framing, first, the gunwales were sloped from the side or rather, edge of the gunwale
                    intended for the bottom of the boat, the slope commencing some 8 ft, more or less, according to the
                    width of the gunwale from the ends to about 12 inches at the ends. Then a dovetail mortice some 12
                    by 4 inches some 10 inches deep and 2 inche dovetailed 
                     next the end Then a dovetail mortice about 8 by 4 inches was
                    made at the commencement of the slopes about 5 inches from the bottem edges of the gunwales. Then
                    mortices of the same dimentions were made about every 6 ft more or less to suit the distance between
                    the first two bottom mortices  Lines were the[n] struck 2 inches from the bottem of the
                    gunwale and 3 inches from the out side of the gunwale for to receive the bottom planks which were
                    generally sawed about 2 inches thick and as wide as the logs would make them. The 3 inches on the
                    outer edge was necessary as a protection for the ends of the bottom planks and particularly to hold
                    the calking; as it was necessary that all seams and cracks 
                     should be calked The end timbers called in boat lore bow and
                    stern pieces were generally hewn about 12 inches square or rather 12 inches on 3 faces and 13 on the
                    4th to suit the slope on the bottom of the ends of the gunwales the othe[r] cross timbers called
                    girts [girders] were hewn on two sides only except at the ends and mere generally 8 inches thick.
                    The bow & stern pieces now being framed by making tenons on each end to fit the several
                    mortices The gunwales were now proped up on edge the cross timbers all put in place and the tenons
                    all fastened in their places by wedges driven with an 
                     iron sledge hammer. The next move was to put on timbers called
                    streamers some 2 feet apart and about 3 inches thick of divers widths as that was of no consequence
                    some times they were sawed and joined on the girders and sometimes were made by splitting and hewing
                    small hickory trees, in some instances the whole length of the boat. the streamers being all
                    fastened into the end timbers by dove tail gains 
                    
                     and wooden pins all now ready for the plunks. which were now laid on if the end fitted
                    well against the 3 inch ledge on the gunwale the other end was scribed in range with the 3 inch
                    ledge on the opposit gunwale but if the end of the plank did not fit just right, the plank was laid
                    up on the ledges at both ends and both scribed and sawn off so as to make a good fit at both ends
                    then being put in place two auger holes with inch augers through the ends of each plank and some 3
                    or 4 inches into the gunwales then tight fitting wooden pins of oak wood were made as tight as they
                    dare be made not to split the planks there was also two holes bored on every streamer if there were
                    five streamers in the boat it required 14 pins to each plank two in each end and two in each
                    streamer and that in every plank the whole length of the bottom of the boat the average width of the
                    planks 
                    
                    
                    
                     was perhaps about 22 inches, so you may guess it required a lot
                    of holes and pins the boring and pinning all done, the adseing off the heads of the pins level with
                    the planks was next in order Then for the broom, as all chips trash &c had to be clean swept
                    off preparatory to calking the seams as every seam or joint betwixt every two planks had to be
                    calked, The calking consiste[d] of twisted cords of well broken hemp or flax ab[o]ut 1/4 of an inch
                    thick, and driven into the seams with an iron instrument made expressly for that purpose the edge of
                    the calking chisel being about 1/16th of an inch and some 3 inches wid[e] the edge being fruted or
                    guttered so as to take a better hold of the cord than if only square. Of course, a mallet was used
                    to drive the chisel
            After carefully calking all the cross seams, the side seams were particularly caulked and sometimes
                    pitched the pitch being made of rosin and lard and while still hot poured in small streams into all
                    the seams The boat now being bottom up the next move was to turn it upside down; being built on two
                    long strait logs with one end of each log extending a short distance over the edge of a steep bank
                    of the creek the boat was then prised by lever power until nearly on a balance the gunwale out over
                    the water being secured to the bank in such a way as to let it go down into the water but not any
                    further from the bank and being nearly on a balance it was not a hard matter to tip it up and turn
                    it oveer [sic], being partly submerged in the water, of coarse a considerable
                    quantity of water was retained in the boat but by the use of a home made wooden scoop shovel that
                    was soon bailed out, as iron and steel scoop shovels had not emigrated this far west at that time.
                    the next move was to to [sic] make mortices on the top edges of the gunwales about
                    4 feet apart 2 inches from the outer edge of the gunwales and 2 by 5 inches and about 5 inches deep,
                    next, studding of sawed oak timber about 3 1/2 ft long 5 by 3 inches were provided and tenons 4 1/2
                    or 5 inches long mad[e] on one end of each stud, made to fit the afore said mortices Then mortices
                    were made in the centre of the bow and stern pieces 6 or mor by 2 inches and mortices same as on the
                    gunwales on each side. then middle posts were provided som 6 or more inches in diameter and studding
                    same size as for the sides framed only longer for the stern so as to fit the roof all studding and
                    post now  being ready were driven into the mortices and ther
                    secured by wedging, as all mortices and tenons in the boats were dove tailed that being considered
                    more substantial than pinning and quicker done. next wide two inch planks were pinned fast to
                    studding and posts same as the bottom now a two inch auger hole was bored in the middle of each girt
                    in the bottom of the boat and posts inserted therein some 
                     12 to 15 inces longer than the side studding and ridge pole
                    fastened on the top of those posts, Then inch 1/4 oak planks some 4 or 5 inches wide and long enough
                    to bend over this ridge pole and be pinned on the top of each side stud with an inch pin were placed
                    on; this done narrow planks were fastened on these over the side studs over the ridge pole and half
                    way betwixt the sides and ridge pole to receive the roofing the roofing was made of good clear 1/2
                    inch popolar planks 6 or 7 inches wide and long enough to make 2 or 3 inches of eave on each side of
                    the boat. the roofing was put on double same as old fashioned clapboard roof. The roof now in place
                    another lot of those 4 or 5 inch inch & quarter oak planks was pinned fast to the under
                    planks on the tops of the side studding which completed the roof
            The stern now now [sic] to be planked with thinner planks to meet the roof the bow
                    being left open and just the same highth as the sides Now for the oars. A strait bodied tree about
                    12 to 14 inches in diameter is selected for the steering oar which is generally 60 feet long and
                    upwards if the boat be longer the tree being cut down as close to the ground as possible is barked
                    and lined some 8 ft to about 1 1/2 inches at point to about 4 inches at the 8 ft mark and hewed to
                    that measure then turned down and left full width for some 4 ft thence lined and hewn to about 6
                    inches at the 8 ft mark. It is then placed on a log or block at the middle and hewn off so as the
                    blade end will be a little heavier than the other. The side oars often termed side sweeps, were
                    mad[e] after the same pattern as the steering oar only they were shorter for a boat 16 ft wide they
                    were 32 ft long and for a wider boat longer. an inch & half or 2 inch auger hole was bored
                    in the centre clear through the oar and on top it was bored and morticed out nearly down through so
                    as to give play up and down when hung in place. The stern post being sawed off a little above the
                    roof a hole was bored in the centre of it some 5 or 6 inches deep and a pin of hard tough hickory
                    wood driven tight in it leaving length enough above to hold the oar to its place and so trimmed that
                    the oar worked freely on it; for the side oars blocks of timber some 5 or 6 inche wide and some 4
                    inches thick by 3 or 4 ft long were pinned on the sides on top about one third of the length of the
                    boat from the bow of it and hung same as the steering oar. The oars beind [sic]
                    hung and walk planks placed on top of the roof all ready for a rise in the creek, as the creek
                    needed to [be] at leas bank full to run [?] boats out 
                    
                    
                    
                     The first two boats ever built on little Raccoon were 60 ft by
                    16 built in 1838 or 9 and loaded with corn in the ear on the 
                        Wabash
                     River at the Otter Creek Prarie landing and run down to Vicsburg and there sold There
                    were more or less boats built every winter and spring from that time until 1846 The highest number
                    ever built in one season was 12 The sizes ranged from 60 by 16 feet to 22 by 102 The last two built
                    in 1846 were 22 by 102 bottomed with inch & 1/2 oak planks. Popolar had always been used
                    previous to that I have no means now of knowing how many boats were built altogather but I think
                    perhaps about 40. T[h]ey were sold and delivered from Armies Burg to 
                        Vincennes
                     at divers places on the 
                        Wabash
                     There was one flat boat built at Mansfield by Scott Bump who was well known in 
                        Rockville
                     some years past. Boats were built at all the saw mills from 
                        Bridgeton
                     to the 
                        Wabash
                    . Moses Robbins run out some flat boats in his time half loaded with bulk pork as
                        Roseville3 was quite a pork market at that time; I presume some of the older
                    settlers in 
                        Rockville
                     can tell where the 
                        Rockville
                     pork house used to stand When Rockvilles was a pork market
            Thousands of bushels of corn and tons of pork were in those days shipped down the 
                        Wabash
                     River and on down to the city of 
                        New Orleans
                     I well remember when boat hands going down to 
                        New Orleans
                     had to trudge back home on foot and thought they done pretty well to get home by the
                    first Monday in August which was then general election day
            J. C. Gilkeson
            
               
                  3 Roseville (
                            Florida
                         Township), the first village in 
                            Parke County
                        , was a "lively place" between 1825 and 1835, but soon began to
                        decline. J. H. Beadle, "History of 
                            Parke County
                        ," 311-12, in H. W. Beckwith, History of 
                                Vigo
                             and 
                                Parke Counties
                            , together with Historic Notes on the 
                                Wabash
                             Valley … (
                            Chicago
                        , 1880).
            
         
         
         
            Maurice Thompson as a Spokesman for the New South
            
                    Walter L. Fertig
                    ∗
                
            There is as yet no general agreement on whether the reconciliation between North and South after 1876
                    was triumph or tragedy, progress or reaction. By examining the work of an Indiana writer who tried
                    to dramatize this reconciliation and guide public opinion to its support, this paper will try to
                    contribute a mite to an understanding of the reactions to the issues compromised after 1876,
                    principally the relationships between victors and conquered and between Negroes and whites.1
            
            Literary history has long since shown how a major contribution toward effecting the compromise was
                    made by southern writers like Thomas Nelson Page who responded to the call of Joel Chandler Harris
                    in the 
                        Atlanta
                    
                    Constitution. In 1882, Harris had as many sympathizers in the North as in the
                    South when he wrote: 
                        In the whole history of politics there is not a parallel to the terrible blunder committed by
                            the Republican leaders in inaugurating, after the war, their Southern policy. It was a
                            policy of lawlessness under the forms of law, of disenfranchisement, robbery, oppression and
                            fraud. It was a deliberate attempt to humiliate the people who had lost everything by the
                            war, and it aroused passions on both sides that were unknown when the war was in actual
                            progress. It banished for years the hope of reconciliation, delayed the natural progress of
                            the country, and put an end, for the time being, to commercial prosperity in both
                            sections…. History will justly charge to this policy all the demoralization at
                            the South and the desperate efforts to resist it.2
                  
                     The partisan approach developed under this kind of analysis was subtle and attractive, It
                    included loyalty to the union of the states, and a confession that secession and slavery were 
                  
                     ∗ Walter L. Fertig is professor of English and chairman of
                            the English Department at 
                                Wabash
                             College, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 For general background see C. Vann Woodward, Origins of
                                the New South, 1877-1913 (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , La., 1951). On the Compromise of 1877 see Woodward's Reunion and Reaction: The Compromise of 1877 and the End of Reconstruction (
                                Boston
                            , 1961), 3-203. For a discussion of reconciliation, see Paul H. Buck, The Road to Reunion, 1865-1900 (
                                Boston
                            , 1937), 100-03.
                  
                     2 Julia Collier Harris (ed.), Joel Chandler Harris,
                                Editor and Essayist: Miscellaneous Literary, Political, and Social Writings (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N.C., 1931), 64-65, quoting 
                                Atlanta
                            
                            Constitution, January 20, 1882.
               
                     wrong. The Confederate soldiers were national heroes, who died,
                    just as the Union heroes had died, in a great trial of honor—a sort of ordeal by divine
                    fire—after which the judgment of God for union and against slavery was final.
            These "reconstructed" sentiments were accompanied, however, by a deep nostalgia for
                    the Lost Cause, and particularly for the supposedly idyllic life on the prewar plantation.
                    Southerners filled their stories with whimsical and lovable slaves, with southern belles of
                    surpassing beauty, charm, and goodness, and with dashing knights in the armor of the old gentry. The
                    clear implication was that, although slavery was legally wrong, the society which included slavery
                    was right, and that the New South should be essentially a rebirth of the Old South. By the early
                    1880's publishers of northern magazines and books had completely capitulated to the fiction
                    based on this thesis. When Thomas Wentworth Higginson—rabid abolitionist and commander of
                    Negro troops during the war—read Thomas Nelson Page's famous story about
                    "Marse Chan," the northern ex-fire-eater broke down and cried at the old
                    Negro's grief over the death of his master in the war to sustain slavery.3
                    Uncle Tom's Cabin had been more than answered.
            A most interesting and perhaps influential contribution to this southern literature was made by a
                    solid citizen of 
                        Crawfordsville
                     in the very early days of the compromise, before Harris and Page had made themselves
                    widely heard. People who recognize the name of Maurice Thompson at all usually associate it with the
                    euphonious title of a book they have not read—Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
               
               4—and do not realize that Thompson was one of
                    the most distinguished intellectuals in the golden age of the 
                        Athens
                     of Indiana. By the time of his death in 1901, Thompson was a very capable writer in
                    many forms—novel, poetry, and especially literary criticism. Near the beginning of his
                    literary career he had wrestled in his first two novels5 with the problem of
                    reconciliation as it touched him personally, and his personal problem may have been the crucial one.
                    Although the problem seems to have 
                  
                     3 Jay B. Hubbell, The South in American Literature,
                                1607-1900 (Durham, N.C., 1964), 702.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1900.
                  
                     5
                            A Tallahassee Girl (
                                Boston
                            . 1882), and His Second Campaign (
                                Boston
                            , 1883).
               
                     been solved in the second novel, Thompson kept returning to
                    various aspects of it throughout his career. Like many of his contemporaries, he may never have
                    solved it to his complete satisfaction.
            The outlines of Thompson's life help to explain his inner, personal complications. His
                    father had been a strong-minded, strong-bodied Baptist minister who was living at 
                        Fairfield
                    , Indiana, when James Maurice Thompson was born in 1844. Some ten years later the family
                    was settled in 
                        Georgia
                     where the Thompsons had acquired a plantation and lived as back-country aristocrats.
                    Thompson's early education included some tutoring in the classics and liberal arts. But the
                    family may have felt insecure in these years. They were never firmly established Southerners. Young
                    Thompson served three years in the Confederate army, but after the war he could find no future for
                    himself in the South. After some experience in the law and in engineering, he went to
                    Craw-fordsville in 1868. Beginning as a railroad engineer, he married the boss's daughter
                    and established himself quickly. In the early seventies he turned to the law and politics. As a
                    stump speaker for the Democrats, he shared in the triumph when Samuel J. Tilden carried 
                        Montgomery
                     County and Indiana in 1876, and he served a single term in the state legislature in
                        1879-1880.6 But neither Tilden nor Thompson carried the city of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , and here again he was partly an outsider, a dedicated if not geniune Southerner who
                    had had the bloody shirt waved in his face by General Lew Wallace himself. The border-state
                    atmosphere of his adopted home seems to have generated alternating feelings of acceptance and
                    rejection in Thompson, feelings somewhat awkwardly reflected in his autobiographical novel A Banker of Bankersville.
               7
            
            Accordingly, Thompson was of two minds about many things when he was writing his first novel, A Tallahassee Girl, in 1881.8 He was proud of his financial
                    success in 
                  
                     6 Frank H. Ristine, "James Maurice Thompson," Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1943), XVIII, 460-61.
                  
                     7
                            
                                New York
                            , 1886.
                  
                     8 Published anonymously in James 
                                Osgood
                            's Round-Robin Series, the book proved to be quite
                            popular. An eleventh edition appeared in 1893; 100,000 copies had been sold by 1900, and it
                            was still in print in 1928. See Dorothy Ritter Russo and Thelma Lois Sullivan, Bibliographical Studies of Seven, Authors of 
                                    Crawfordsville
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1952), 185-87.
               
                     engineering and the law, and he wanted very much to be a
                    money-making writer. Yet he was emotionally attracted to the aristocratic tradition of the southern
                    gentleman. Furthermore, he had not quite decided in 1881 whether the election of Rutherford B. Hayes
                    over Tilden was a blessing or a disgrace to the country. He still tended to think it was a disgrace,
                    remarking early in the novel that the 
                        Florida
                     capitol was "the scene of the memorable 'count,' so
                    disastrous to one party, so valuable to the other, and withal so disreputable to both."9 Thompson is not bitter—the novel is full of magnolias and
                    mockingbirds and the magic of the Old South. But it is not satisfactory as a reconciliation novel,
                    simply because Thompson was not yet quite sure how reconciliation would come about, or whether, in
                    the last analysis, it was really possible.
            The basic pattern is simple, and obvious in its application. A northern newspaperman and novelist, a
                    veteran of Chickamauga, comes south about ten years after the war to fulfill his destiny, which is
                    to write the novel he feels compelled to write about the aftermath of the great conflict. He meets
                    the inevitable Thompson heroine—charming, innocent, ravishingly beautiful, irresistible
                    in every respect—and falls in love. Because the Girl is too young to remember the war,
                    she is the ideal person to affect reconciliation. But she is instinctively loyal to her ruined
                    family. Her older brother, Victor, was also at Chickamauga, where he was permanently crippled by
                    none other than the northern suitor for his sister. The recognition scene between the maimed martyr
                    of the South and the healthy, sturdy Northerner is tense and manfully courteous on both sides. At
                    the end of this meeting, 
                        Cauthorne and La Rue exchanged very few more words. They could find no ground upon which to
                            base a conversation. By a tacit recognition of the hopelessness of the situation they
                            separated, the stalwart Northerner going thoughtfully towards the house, the shattered
                            Southerner hobbling deeper into the gloom of the grove,—one to chafe and agonize
                            over the fatality which had ordered this dark discovery; the other to bend his gloomy eyes
                            upon the life in the hereafter, where the crutch and the disfigurements of wounds are
                            unknown, and where the dark mysteries of our earthly afflictions burst into the fragrant
                            blooms of heavenly delights.10
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     9
                            A Tallahassee Girl, 8.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 248-49.
               
                     The heroine marries her southern suitor, leaving the mystified
                    and frustrated Northerner to his empty success: is a writer. To see the flower of the postwar South
                    is to love her completely. But the best the most sympathetic Northerner can do is to sing her
                    praises and go disconsolate home. Indeed, the Tallahassee Girl has gently repulsed two northern
                    suitors, one of whom even her father is inclined to favor. In the future, however, is some hope for
                    partial reconciliation. Her husband is an enlightened Southerner who believes that the old-time
                    rebelliousness must go and that the Negroes must be not only free, but educated.
            Thompson's attitude toward the Negro is clearly set down in this first novel, and his point
                    of view did not change from one end of his career to the other. The Negro is basically and eternally
                    different from the white man, and all proposals for the betterment of the Negro are to be based on
                    this axiom. The best Negroes are the pure blacks; "jet black" and "black
                    as Erebus" are complimentary epithets. The great sin of interracial copulation has produced
                    in the light Negro a man destined to give nothing but trouble, psychologically and physiologically a
                    misfit, a neurotic.11 For the pure Negroes there is hope for a very gradual
                    development along certain lines. As makers of policy and leaders of a community, they have no real
                    potential whatever. They are created to be ruled and to make their contribution to society in their
                    own way, primarily as servants and entertainers. Not that they are incapable of heroic action. The
                    protagonist of A Tallahassee Girl is saved from death in the 
                        Florida
                     swamp by the patience and fidelity of a Negro family who nurse him to health through a
                    prolonged attack of yellow fever. But this is the devotion and heroism of natural-born slaves.
            Thompson's contribution to the suffrage question is the offhand suggestion that the Negro
                    would forget to vote if you did not remind him. And, of course, to remind him is to force him to do
                    something he does not want to do and cannot do to any purpose. At one point in the novel Thompson
                        
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 313. Thompson reiterated this theory and many of the others
                            discussed here throughout his career. Perhaps the fullest exposition was in "The
                            Intellectual Future of the Negro," The Independent, XLIII (April
                            16, 1891), 550. By 1891, Thompson had hen a literary editor of this 
                                New York
                             weekly for two years. He had been a regular contributor since 1884.
               
                     paints this striking picture: "By the side of the
                    carriageway, between the house and the gate, a negro girl, about fourteen years of age, lay asleep,
                    her face in a hot space of sunshine, her body and feet in the shade. She was as happy as a princess
                    in a palace on a bed of down, fanned by perfumed attendants. She grinned lazily, half waking, as
                    they passed."12 This vignette is apropos of nothing in particular in
                    the development of the story, and might be passed over as simply a bit of ornamentation. But it is
                    certainly symbolic of Thompson's feeling about the Negro—a childlike, tropical
                    animal, happy to bask in the warmth of the sun without a care or responsibility in the world. Trying
                    to make him the equal of the white man is to go against nature and to endanger his happiness.
            Ten years later Thompson was writing in the Independent much the same way. Slavery
                    had indeed been "hideous," but "in the South it showed in the aggregate
                    its most liberal and temperate phases of oppression." Slavery had indeed been
                    "evil," but it gave rise to some of the most picturesque, romantic phases of life
                    and experience that have come to mankind since the days of chivalry."13
                    In other words, slavery in the abstract is bad, but southern slavery was beyond and above such
                    abstract judgment. Years later, Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
                closed with the same idea. Although the historical setting antedates the Civil
                    War period, the heroine Alice—a reincarnation of the matchless beauties of the earlier
                    books—marries a southern gentleman and lives happily ever after on a 
                        Virginia
                     plantation, where the slaves "worked and sang by day and frolicked by
                        night."14 Thompson's last word on the slavery question
                    sounds exactly like his first one.
            In spite of these quite commonplace views on the race question, however, Thompson could still claim
                    to be a progressive American. Soon after A Tallahassee Girl was finished he seems
                    to have made up his mind that reconciliation was fully possible. In his next novel, His
                        Second Campaign,15
                    
                  
                     12
                            A Tallahassee Girl, 208.
                  
                     13 "A Noble Negro," The
                            Independent, XLIII (July 16, 1891), 1046-47.
                  
                     14
                            Alice of 
                                    Old Vincennes
                                
                     , 418-19.
                  
                     15 Like A Tallahassee Girl, the novel was an
                            anonymous item in the Round-Robin Series. For bibliographical data and an
                            interesting letter from Thompson to Lew Wallace about the mixed reception of the book, see
                            Russo and Sullivan, Bibliographical Studies of Seven Authors of 
                                    Crawfordsville
                                
                     , 187-88.
               
                     we find the plot and atmosphere of A Tallahassee
                        Girl all over again, but with some important modifications. The heroine is liberated soon
                    after the war from the tragedy of her family's ruin by going to live with an aunt who has
                    married out of the plantation gentry to a progressive railroad financier. The aunt takes the Girl on
                    a trip to 
                        Chicago
                    , where the heroine is fascinated by the excitement of business and industrial progress.
                    She is also attracted to a young Union veteran, now an up-and-coming corporation lawyer, who is, of
                    course, immediately ensnared. The confrontation scene in this novel is much more heart-rending than
                    in A Tallahassee Girl. On Sherman's march through 
                        Georgia
                    , our hero had bayoneted a young woman heroically defending her home. The home was the
                    Girl's, and the young woman was the Girl's sister. Nevertheless, the northern
                    lawyer defeats no fewer than three southern suitors for the hand of the heroine, and the maimed
                    sister is superhumanly tolerant and willing to forgive. Thus, in the most difficult of
                    circumstances, reconciliation has been effected by surpassing love and understanding, and the Flower
                    of the South has come to see that the future lies with the expanding and industrious North.
            From this emotional acceptance of reconciliation Thompson soon made a natural transition to the theme
                    of the basic heroism of both sides in the Civil War. In a poem called "To the
                    South," he wrote: 
                        With each fierce battle's sacrifice
                        I sold the wrong at awful price
                        And bought the good, but knew it not.16
                  
                     When the southern soldier finally could realize in what way he had "bought the
                    good" by fighting for the Lost Cause, he was ready to accept reconciliation. Perhaps the
                    fullest development of the theme comes in a long poem, "Lincoln's
                        Grave,"17 which he read before the Phi Beta Kappa Society of 
                        Harvard
                     in 1893. He begins with a personal question, by now strictly rhetorical: 
                        May one who fought in honor for the South
                        Uncovered stand and sing by Lincoln's grave?18
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     16
                            The Independent, XXXVI (September 1, 1884), 1153.
                  
                     17
                            
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1894. Pages unnumbered.
                  
                     18 Stanza I.
               
                     He admits having been a rebel and having felt a
                    "thrill divine" when he answered 
                        Georgia
                    's call for men. He recalls the excitement of combat, and still feels 
                        the breath
                        Of courage that did hurl me through the fray,
                        And strand me by the ramparts of the North!19
                  
                     The crucial test was whether the soldier fought with a clear conscience for what he thought
                    was right. If he did, he is a national hero, for he is now aware of how the country gained, in the
                    Civil War, the unity and strength to carry Freedom to the rest of the world. Abraham Lincoln is
                    described as possessing a supernatural sympathy and tolerance which enabled him to live "on
                    both sides of every aspiration," and see 
                        how men could differ and be right,
                        How from all points the waves of truth are driven
                        To one last destination;
                        How prayer that battles prayer with awful might
                        Eternally tempestuous rolls to heaven.20
                  
                    
            
            In these attitudes of Thompson can be recognized familiar ideas about the Negro and about the
                    mystical union of Blue and Gray. Conservative and conventional as these ideas sound today, such
                    thinking represented progress to Thompson, as well as a sometimes painful but thoroughgoing
                    adjustment of his personal conflict. He is worth studying briefly, not because his ideas are
                    important or profound in themselves, but because we can see those ideas developing in the dynamics
                    of a difficult situation. In his day, Thompson could call himself a progressive, a champion of
                    Tilden and reform. He was not a radical or original thinker, but he helped haul down the bloody
                    shirt, and he tried to tell embittered Southerners how the Civil War could be interpreted as a
                    blessing in disguise. Unless the Compromise of 1877 comes to be labelled a work of unmitigated evil,
                    Thompson deserves recognition as something more than a one-book author.
            
               
                  19 Stanza VII.
               
                  20 Stanza XXIII.
            
         
         
         
            The Owen Family Papers
            
                    Josephine Mirabella Elliott
                    ∗
                
            Robert Owen's experiment in communitarian living, established at 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1825, remained in existence for only a few years.1 By 1828 it
                    had disintegrated and the property had been surveyed, subdivided, and deeded to the Owen children,
                    relatives, and the friends who had believed in Owen's ideas strongly enough to help carry
                    on the social experiment. Even though the community was formally dissolved, Robert Owen's
                    four sons and one surviving daughter continued to make 
                        New Harmony
                     their home, along with others of the distinguished group of scientists, educators, and
                    reformers who had followed Owen in his dream. 
                        New Harmony
                     of the 1830's, 1840's, and 1850's basked in the
                    "afterglow," a period equally as interesting and important as the 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment had been. The Owen children—Robert Dale, William, David Dale,
                    Richard, and Jane—and other individuals such as William Maclure,2
                    Charles Alexander Lesueur,3 Joseph Neef,4 Josiah 
                        Warren
                    ,5 and William Phiquepal 
                  
                     ∗ Josephine M. Elliott (Mrs. John B.) is teacher-librarian
                            of Hedges School Demonstration Library at 
                                Mt. Vernon
                            , Indiana. She has served as librarian of the 
                                New Harmony
                             Workingmen's Institute and was cataloger of the Owen Family Papers.
                  
                     1 Robert Owen (1771-1858) was a wealthy Scottish mill owner, idealist
                            and social dreamer, educational and labor reformer, who bought the town of Harmonie from
                            George Rapp and the Harmony Society in 1824. After the failure of his 
                                New Harmony
                             experiment Owen abandoned his attempts at social reform in the 
                                United States
                             but continued to promulgate his ideas until his death. For a discussion of
                            Owen's ideas and the experiment at 
                                New Harmony
                            , see Arthur Eugene Bestor, Jr., Backwoods Utopias: The Sectarian
                                and Owenite Phases of Communitarian Socialism in America: 1663-1829 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1960). For a sample of contemporary accounts of 
                                New Harmony
                             and its residents, see Reuben Gold Thwaites (ed.), Early Western
                                Travels, 1748-1846 (32 vols., 
                                Cleveland
                            , 1904-1907), XXII, 162-98, and Harlow Lindley (ed.), Indiana as
                                Seen by Early Travelers: A Collection of Reprints from Books of Travel, Letters and
                                Diaries Prior to 1830 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. III; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 360-437.
                  
                     2 William Maclure was the principal associate and financial partner of
                            Robert Owen in the development of 
                                New Harmony
                            . An educator and scientist, he has been called "father of American
                            geology." A substantial portion of Maclure's personal papers are in the
                            Workingmen's Institute, 
                                New Harmony
                            .
                  
                     3 Charles Alexander Lesueur was a French naturalist and artist who
                            lived and carried on his scientific activities at 
                                New Harmony
                             and in the Midwest between 1826 and 1837. Some Lesueur correspondence is in the
                            Workingmen's Institute. For a description of Lesueur items in the Owen Family
                            Papers, see pp. 337-38.
                  
                     4 Francis Joseph Nicholas Neef's activities at 
                                New Harmony
                             are described briefly on pp. 336-37.
               
                     d'Arusmont,6 exerted a lasting
                    influence on the schools, laws, natural sciences, and society of the 
                        United States
                    .
            In the years of the Owen experiment and immediately following its abandonment, many travelers and
                    scholars were attracted by the educational, cultural, and scientific activities at 
                        New Harmony
                     and a number stayed to participate in them. William Maclure's interest in
                    education and geology stimulated others to follow his lead. Richard and David Dale Owen both became
                    geologists, the latter early developing a chemistry laboratory and geological museum which were
                    unusually fine for that period and location. After outgrowing at least three earlier laboratories,
                    David Dale built in 1858-1859 an extensive laboratory on the Maclure property he had purchased a few
                    years earlier. After his death in 1860 this new laboratory was converted into a residence.7 Since that time the "Owen Laboratory" has been occupied by
                    descendants of Robert Owen.
            Although all the children of Robert Owen were away for varying periods of time at school, traveling,
                    or working at their professions, 
                        New Harmony
                     remained their permanent home. William, David Dale, and Jane lived and died there;
                    Richard returned to spend his summers and retired and completed his life there. Robert Dale was the
                    only one of the five who married outside the 
                        New Harmony
                     community and spent his later years elsewhere. Through the years a substantial portion
                    of the family's personal papers and records, as well as other papers and records relating
                    to the affairs of the Owen Community, have accumulated and been preserved in the Owen Laboratory.
                    The house and the family papers are now the property of Kenneth Dale Owen of 
                  Houston, Texas
               ,
                    a great grandson of Richard Owen.
            
               
                  5 Josiah 
                            Warren
                         was an inventor, economist, newspaper editor, and musician, who lived at 
                            New Harmony
                         during the Community period and again in the 1840's.
               
                  6 William Phiquepal d'Arusmont was a Pestalozzian teacher
                        sponsored by Maclure. He lived at 
                            New Harmony
                         from 1826 to 1829. In 1831 he married social reformer Francis Wright.
               
                  7 In manuscripts in the Owen Family Papers, Caroline Dale Parke Snedeker,
                        daughter of David Owen's youngest child, Nina Dale, reports that in his will David Dale
                        left the Laboratory to Nina Dale. She indicates that the building was converted to a residence
                        by Nina Dale's husband, Charles Parke, and that it was sold in 1871 when the Parke
                        family moved to 
                            Mt. Vernon
                        , Indiana. The Owen Laboratory was included in the Historic American Buildings
                        Survey in 1936. Measured drawings and construction details of the Laboratory are filed in the
                        Library of Congress with copies in the Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
            The Owen Family Papers include correspondence; business and personal papers; journals, diaries, and
                    other records; and published materials by or relating to members of the Owen family. The collection
                    also contains correspondence and other items of the Owen Community period and of the distinguished
                    persons connected with it.8 Most of the papers described in this article are
                    related directly to members of the Owen family who lived at 
                        New Harmony
                    . Occasional manuscript items in the collection have found their way into print as a
                    result of personal contact and special permission granted by a member of the Owen family.9 But, except for the autobiographical and professional items published by
                    writing members of the family, the greater part of the collection has not been published.
            During the past fourteen years two separate attempts have been made to arrange and classify the
                    collection. In 1952 Arthur E. Bestor, Jr., then professor of history at the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , cataloged one group of papers, and portions of this group were reproduced on microfilm
                    for the 
                        Illinois
                     Historical Survey.10 The second classification program is the one
                    with which this article is particularly concerned. During the spring of 1962 the rest of the papers
                    that had accumulated at the Omen Laboratory were gathered together and arranged. These comprise all
                    the papers and pictures that have been found in the house, where, is nearly as can be determined, no
                    further unrevealed manuscripts are hidden away. During the summer of 1963 these were classified. It
                    is hoped that eventually the significant portions of the recently 
                  
                     8 This collection and the ledgers, daybooks, and other Owen Community
                            records and papers at the Workingmen's Institute probably represent the bulk of
                            existing manuscript materials about 
                                New Harmony
                             during and after the Owen experiment. For descriptions of the materials in the
                            Workingmen's Institute and other collections, see Bestor, Backwoods
                                Utopias, 259-66; Richard William Leopold, Robert Dale Owen: A
                                Biography, (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1940), 419-20; Roger A. Hurst. "The 
                                New Harmony
                             Manuscript Collections," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XXXVII (March, 1941), 15-49.
                  
                     9 See, for example, Leopold, Robert Dale Owen: A
                                Biography; Walter 
                                Brookfield
                             Hendrickson. David Dale Owen: Pioneer Geologist of the Middle West
                                (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXVII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1943); Victor L. Albjerg, Richard Owen: 
                                    Scotland
                                 1810—Indiana 1890 (Archives of Purdue, No. 2; 
                                Lafayette
                            , Ind., 1946); Bestor, Backwoods Utopias; William E. Wilson,
                                The Angel and the Serpent: The Story of 
                                    New Harmony
                                
                      (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1964).
                  
                     10 The group of papers cataloged by Bestor were made available by Mrs.
                            Aline Owen Neal, sister of Kenneth Dale Owen's father, Richard Dale Owen. Mrs. Neal
                            lived at the Owen Laboratory until her death.
               
                     cataloged collection also will be microfilmed. When this is
                    done the materials processed by Professor Bestor and those processed in 1962-1963 will be merged
                    into a single collection. The Owen Family Papers are not available for examination or research at
                    this time.
            Some gathering of family papers had been started in 1960-1961 by Miss Joyce Mann, hostess at the Owen
                    Laboratory. In March, 1962, the author, with Miss Mann's help, undertook the difficult task
                    of collecting from all possible places in the house—drawers, shelves, cupboards, attic
                    boxes, and trunks—and physically arranging a mass of material involving hundreds of
                    manuscripts collected over the years by generations of Owens. A basic archival principle, respect des fonds, had generally to be abandoned because many years of handling
                    and rummaging by the family and early researchers had destroyed the original order. Days of quiet
                    uninspiring drudgery were periodically enlivened by finding a Robert Owen letter in an unrelated
                    notebook; discovering beautiful Lesueur drawings of archaeological artifacts in three widely
                    separated locations; the revelation that an Owen Community daybook had been used by Richard Owen as
                    a scrap-book for his clippings. After May, 1962, work ceased until July, 1963, when the final order
                    of the major part of the collection was set up and the papers cataloged.
            The largest and most important portion of the Owen Family Papers covers the period from 1945 to the
                    1950's. It includes the following groups of materials: (1) various journals, account books,
                    and miscellaneous papers relating to Owen Community days and the "afterglow"
                    period that followed; (2) correspondence and personal papers of some of the distinguished
                    individuals who joined the 
                        New Harmony
                     community because of their interest in Robert Owen's ideas and experiments;
                    and (3) the correspondence 2nd personal papers of the children of Robert Owen who came to 
                        New Harmony
                     and there spent most of their lives, and those of a few of their descendants. The
                    other, less significant, portion of the Owen Family Papers includes the correspondence and papers of
                    later Owen descendants, in-law branches, and friends, and covers roughly the period from the
                    1850's to the 1950's. In addition to the manuscripts, there is a large collection
                    of original paintings and drawings, both signed and unsigned, 
                    and prints, etchings, and other art items. An equally large photographic collection portrays 
                        New Harmony
                     people, places, and events.
            The various items relating to the Owen Community and "afterglow"
                    periods—the first of the groups of materials listed above—include some of the
                    most unique items in the collection. One of these is an account book kept by John Burton, a
                    carpenter who apparently worked at the English settlement established in 1817-1818 at Albion, 
                        Illinois
                    , and at the Rappite village of Harmonie in Indiana. The account book contains such
                    entries as "Wanbro [Wanborough] English Pririe [sic]" and work
                    done "for M. Flower at Albion Tavern."11 The first portion of
                    the accounts, from 1813 to 1819, is reckoned in English money; from 1819 to 1823 the accounts are
                    figured in American money.
            The daybook of the Owen Community used by Richard Owen as a scrapbook appears to cover the period
                    from November 12, 1825, to February 22, 1827. It consists of dated pages, each of which is devoted
                    to a specific enterprise such as the tobacco factory, boarding schools, "Boarding House No.
                    3," cabinet maker's shop, "Cow's [sic]," the day school, "Dying [sic] and Weaving,"
                    farm, 
                        New Harmony
                     improvements, orchards and nursery, the printing office, stocking factory, straw
                    factory, shoe shop, "Tan Yard," feathers, "Barter Transactions."
                    Items, prices, and lists of names are included on each page. The newspaper clippings posted into the
                    daybook by Richard Owen have notations in his handwriting and include letters to the editor,
                    speeches, articles, and other items from a variety of newspapers throughout the country. Those from
                    the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    South-Western Sentinel are particularly interesting because copies of this
                    newspaper, published by Josiah 
                        Warren
                     and printed on the roller press 
                        Warren
                     invented, are quite rare.
            A legal document—a lease titled "Education Society to Robert Owen" and
                    dated August 24, 1826—refers to land to 
                  
                     11 Flower served as George Rapp's agent in the sale of the
                            Harmonist properties to Owen in 1824, and close ties existed between the two communities
                            during the tenures of both the Harmonists and the Owenites. According to an entry in an
                            account book at Workingmen's Institute, Burton also worked at 
                                New Harmony
                             during the Community period. Day Book of the Education Society, 187.
               
                     be used for the establishment of an iron foundry. The following
                    signatures of important Owen Community members appear on this document: 
                  
                     F.J.N. Neef
                     R D Owen
                  
                  
                     Victor Neef
                     Lucy W. Sistare
                  
                  
                     L. L[B]. Neef
                     G. Troost
                  
                  
                     Louisa Neef
                     C A LeSueur
                  
                  
                     Hen Ainslie
                     Josiah 
                                    Warren
                                
                     
                  
                  
                     Helen Fisher
                     Wm Phiquepal
                  
                  
                     M D Fretageot
                     Amos Clarke
                  
               
            
            Two undated maps of 
                        New Harmony
                     and Harmony Township are of interest. Robert Dale Owen labeled the earlier of the two,
                    "a part of 
                        New Harmony
                     as laid out by Robert Owen." The other, post 1849, was drawn largely by Robert
                    Dale Owen, and indicates land ownership.
            The second group of materials—the personal papers of some of the prominent members of the
                    Owen Community—includes two exquisitely done notebooks that belonged to Martha Chase,
                    artist and teacher in the community schools and first wife of Richard Owen.12
                    One is a music book dated approximately 1820, and the other a book of hand-drawn lace and embroidery
                    patterns inscribed "1823, July 15 
                  New
                        York, United States
               , America." The
                    sources of the patterns are noted in Mrs. Chase's hand.
            The packet of papers relating to the Neef family contains correspondence, business and personal
                    papers, printed articles, and clippings. Joseph Neef, a Pestalozzian teacher and
                    protégé of William Maclure, had charge of the schools in the Community period
                    and continued to live in 
                        New Harmony
                    . Among the Neef papers is correspondence, exchanged before the Owen experiment began
                    between Neef and Maclure and between Neef and Phiquepal, in which the writers discuss educational
                    theories. Two of Neef's daughters, Caroline and Anne Eliza, married David Dale and Richard
                    Owen. A letter written in 1854 by another daughter, Louisa Neef Evans, to her sister Anne Eliza Neef
                    Owen in 
                        Tennessee
                     has the penciled notation: "Louisa's letter informing us of
                    father's death."
            
               
                  12 Richard Owen was eighteen years old when he and Martha Chase were
                        married. She died soon after.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    New Harmony
                                 
                              
                           
                                    10 April 1854
                                
                        My dear Sister
                        From my last letter you will have been prepared for the melancholy news I have to
                                    impart. Our dear Father has gone to rest. He died on the 8th about mid-day, and to
                                    us who had watched by him it was a relief to see him smile to sleep. I have the
                                    consolation that he had every attention that could be given, being enabled to devote
                                    all my time to him, and whenever I needed assistance Dale [David Dale Owen] was
                                    ready to give it. Caro [Caroline Neef Owen] sent me my meals, so that I never left
                                    him….
                        Dr. Mann made an examination of the head and found the ball (which Dale now has) it
                                    had entered about half an inch beyond the wound and dropped down and rested on the
                                    palate of the mouth. It weighs something over half an ounce.13
                        
                        It was evident that it, was the whole cause of the diseased state of his
                                    head….
                        Love to Richard and the boys from your affectionate sister
                        
                                    Louisa Evans
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Charles Alexander Lesueur, naturalist and scientist, artist and teacher, was among the first to
                    engage in archaeological research in the 
                        United States
                    . During his years in 
                        New Harmony
                     as participant in the Owen experiment and after, he made scientific investigations of n
                    number of 
                        Posey County
                     Indian mounds. That his interest ranged beyond the local sites, however, is borne out
                    by a group of drawings, some delicately tinted with water colors, of archaeological finds which
                    include effigies, axes, arrowheads, stone implements. Many of them have place identifications such
                    as "
                        Wabash
                    ," "
                        Mississippi
                    ," "
                        Missouri
                     state," "at mouth of Mobile Bay," "
                        Vincennes
                    ," and are accompanied by a text written in an odd combination of French and
                    English. One drawing shows arrowheads that had been presented to him by Colonel Francis Vigo at 
                        Vincennes
                    . A charming series of four pencil drawings of field mice, one of them partially
                    colored, displays to advantage Lesueur's abilities as naturalist and artist.
            A number of miscellaneous sheets contain notes on articles in scientific journals and what appear to
                    be archaeological field notes. The arrangement is somewhat arbitrary because the material was found
                    in three separate groups of papers. Dates for these items range from 1827 to 1837.
                    Lesueur's name does not appear anywhere, but the notes are written in his customary
                    blending of the French and English 
                  
                     13 Neef had been wounded at the age of twenty-two while fighting under
                            Napoleon at the Battle of Arcola in 
                                Italy
                             in 1796.
               
                     languages, and careful comparison of the distinctive script
                    with known Lesueur handwriting leaves little doubt that these exciting manuscripts are his.14
            
            The third group of significant materials in the Owen Family Papers, the group containing the largest
                    number of items, is composed of the correspondence and personal papers of the children of Robert
                    Owen and their immediate families. As these and other papers were cataloged, all genealogical
                    information was brought together and a number of charts were worked out in an attempt to provide a
                    complete and up-to-date family record. The notes and charts and the correspondence, especially that
                    with the Scotch collateral lines, testify to the interest and family pride of Robert Owen's
                    descendants.
            An extensive assortment of legal documents offers a varied view of the Omen sons' dealings,
                    furnishing insights into their honest straight-forward characters—and indicating that
                    they did not always demonstrate good business sense. There are numerous deeds drawn up among the
                    four Owen sons or with their relatives and friends. The "Owen Trust" papers are
                    concerned with the money Robert Owen had set aside in 1844 for his children, and include the
                    petition dated October 29, 1869, for partition of the fund. Another matter, the estate of Robert
                    Owen's father-in-law, David Dale, Esq., or the "Scotch business," as the
                    family called it, caused some strain on relationships: there is correspondence between Robert Dale
                    Owen as trustee and Richard, and between Richard and several nephews representing other branches and
                    generations, stating some displeasure with the business management of Robert Dale Owen. Feeling for
                    family outweighs all else, however, as indicated in the following quotation from a letter written by
                    David Dale Owen's son-in-law: 
                  
                     
                        I sincerely hope the affair can be settled without causing any ill feeling among
                                    members of the family; I am somewhat proud of my connection with the Owen family,
                                    which has always, among other good traits, been celebrated for unanimity of feeling
                                    and kindnesses toward each other, and I would dislike very much to see them go to
                                    law among themselves over the settlement of their grandfather's and their
                                    great grandfather's estates. I am always ready and willing to assist him
                                    [Robert Dale Owen] pecuniarily if he needs it in his old age and infirmities.15
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
                  14 These items are on fine rag paper bearing the watermark
                        "Napoléon Empereur des Français Roi d'Italie."
               
                  15 Charles Parke to Ernest Dale Owen, son of Robert Dale Owen, fragment
                        (1876-1876?).
            
            
            In another business matter, a misunderstanding over boundaries arose among Robert Dale Owen, his
                    brother Richard, and John Elliott.16 Robert Dale wanted no trouble with his
                    brother, saying in a letter dated February 17, 1865, and addressed to Richard at 
                        Bloomington
                    : "I lay all this before you not in the way of complaint, I know it happened by
                    the blunder of an ignorant country surveyor…".
            The Owen Family papers have only three new Robert Owen items. That Owen was still true to his social
                    beliefs in his eighty-first year is evident in a letter to Richard dated February 20, 1852. After
                    duly commenting on his own grandchildren, he expresses his views on the rearing of children in
                    general. He believes the exhibition going on at the Crystal Palace in 
                        London
                     makes for the removal of national prejudices. He has strong hopes for the rapprochement
                    of the 
                        United States
                     and Great Britain; in fact, he has recently sent a proposal to President Fillmore and
                    his cabinet that there be one nation made up of the Anglo-Saxon family. He wishes to introduce the
                    Rational System of Society among governments and people. He reports that his health continues good
                    although he is advancing in years. Even if the cataloger had not been familiar with Robert
                    Owen's distinctive spidery script, a letter expressing such characteristic ideas could have
                    been identified immediately though it was found in a totally unexpected place. The presence in the
                    collection of a copy of the Illustrated 
                            London
                         News showing the "exterior of the Crystal Palace erected in Hyde Park
                    for the Exhibition of the Industry of All Nations, August 2, 1851," can probably be
                    attributed to Robert Owen's thoughtfulness. A letter written by Richard's young
                    sons, Eugene and Horace, thanks "Grand-father" for the newspaper about the
                    "Glass Palace."
            Robert Dale Owen (1801-1877)17 was the oldest son of Robert Owen. He became one
                    of the leaders of the Owen Community and with Frances Wright edited the 
                  
                            New Harmony
                         Gazette and the Free Enquirer.
               18 A
                    philosopher and 
                  
                     16 John Elliott was the son of James Elliott, a member of the Owen
                            Community who with other "English farmers" helped set up an offshoot
                            community called Feiba-Peveli.
                  
                     17 For details of Robert Dale Owen's life and activities, see
                            Leopold, Robert Dale Owen: A Biography.
                  
                  
                     18 Frances Wright was a social reformer and a leader in the free
                            thought movement who lived at 
                                New Harmony
                             for n short time during 1827-1828. The Free Enquirer was
                            published at 
                                New York
                             in the 1830's. Miss Wright and d'Arusmont were married in 
                                France
                             in 1831.
               
                     social reformer, he served state and country as member of the
                    Indiana General Assembly and of Congress. In 1853-1858 he was at Naples as 
                        United States
                     Minister to the Court of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. Later in life he devoted most
                    of his attention to the scientific investigation of spiritualism. Of the papers in the collection
                    that relate to Robert Dale's public and private life, probably the most significant is the
                    diary of a journey he took in 1827 with Frances Wright from 
                        New Harmony
                     to 
                        Nashoba
                    , a colony the latter had established in 
                        Tennessee
                     to provide a way for selected Negro slaves to purchase their freedom and passage to
                    Africa through a system of cooperative labor. The diary also describes his visits as he and Miss
                    Wright continued the trip to 
                        New Orleans
                     and 
                        Paris
                    , and his journey as he went on alone to 
                        London
                    , and to Braxfield, the Owen family home in 
                        Scotland
                    , where he visited his mother and sisters.
            The diary contains a copy of a letter Robert Dale wrote on May 3 to his mother. Describing the 
                        New Harmony
                     community, he says that "the principal community in the town of 
                        New Harmony
                     itself no longer exists as such, each occupation working and acting for
                    itself." He goes on to describe Frances Wright and her coming to 
                        New Harmony
                    , and tells of her 
                        Nashoba
                     experiment. They spent the week of May 6 to 13 at 
                        Nashoba
                    , which Robert Dale describes thus: 
                        The land is not rich, producing about 35 bushels of corn an acre [on the cover he notes
                            "… a little more than half what Harmony did"] …
                            there are about 100 acres cleared; 2 double log-cabins, 1 single one, besides a cabin for
                            the negroes' dining-room; and on the outside small cabins for the negroes. May 6-13 The establishment appears to me likely to progress slowly; but I
                            think it is established on correct principles, a bold and decided experiment to live according to correct principles. All that appears to me necessary to ensure
                            success is to proceed gradually not overrunning the means that may be commanded and to be
                            particularly careful in the admission of members.
                    
            
            Owen and Miss Wright then proceeded to 
                        New Orleans
                    , where some time was spent making arrangements for the sea voyage and, because of
                    adverse weather conditions, even more time passed before they got to sea. On July 27 they landed at
                    Le Havre. The diary notes that on August 3 he wrote to his "sister Anne a letter of which
                    the following [is] an extract…". He explains in some detail his reluctance to
                    stay in 
                        New Harmony
                    ; his own and his father's principles  are
                    similar, but "his ideas of practice and mine now differ widely." He describes his
                    feelings toward Frances Wright: "I esteem Miss Wright highly; I like her principles and
                    feelings; I admire her talents; I value her friendship … and yet not withstanding
                    … I am no more likely to fall in love (as it is called) with her than with
                    yourself…. I know many who, for me, are more interesting. Her younger sister, for
                    instance…." He explains that he accompanied Frances on this trip as "an
                    act of friendship" and nothing more, no matter what the world may construe from his action.
                    He reports that Miss Wright was ill and could not travel alone and that it was necessary that her
                    sister Camilla stay at 
                        Nashoba
                    .
            With Miss Wright he spent a few days visiting General 
                        Lafayette
                    —a man whom he vastly admired—at the General's country
                    home. There he left Frances, who was to stay with her old friend and try to recover her health. The
                    last formal entry in the diary is for August 31. There is, however, the following notation written
                    in pencil: "Then went to Braxfield. Got there about September 5 and staid till October 19.
                    See succeeding cahier." But the "succeeding" notebook is not in this
                    collection.
            Mary Jane Robinson (1813-1871) married Robert Dale Owen on April 12, 1832. She was well educated and
                    an active participant in the social reform movements of the period and in the intellectual and
                    cultural life of 
                        New Harmony
                    . Mary Jane usually remained at 
                        New Harmony
                     when Robert Dale Owen was traveling, but she did accompany him to Washington during his
                    second term in Congress and also to Europe when he began his ministry at Naples. During the first
                    year abroad, however, she and Jane Dale Owen Fauntleroy lived at Stuttgart, 
                        Germany
                    , where they supervised the education of their children (four each) and that of Alfred,
                    son of David Dale Owen. In the Owen Family Papers are several letters describing this period which
                    Mary Jane Robinson Owen wrote from Stuttgart to brother-in-law Richard. Also in the collection is a
                    journal dated 
                        Paris
                    , July 2, 1832, which hears her signature and contains what are probably her
                    observations made on a journey in 
                        France
                    . The journal also includes biographical, philosophical, and political notes; some of
                    these notes are in her husband's handwriting and others were written by an unidentified
                    person.
            
            David Dale Owen (1807-1860), the third son of Robert, first participated in the Owen Community from
                    1828 to 1830. After a year in 
                        New York
                     and two years studying chemistry and geology in 
                        London
                    , David Dale returned to 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1833. He set up his first chemistry laboratory in 1834 in the kitchen of the house
                    then occupied by all the Robert Owen children. In 1835-1837 he studied medicine and was awarded a
                    medical degree in 1837. Between 1836 and 1859, David Dale made numerous geological surveys of
                    various states and territories and established an international reputation as an authority on the
                    geology of the Midwest. He was appointed the first state geologist of Indiana in 1837—a
                    position he was to hold several times—and director for the 
                        United States
                     geological survey of the Chippewa Land District in 
                        Iowa
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                     in 1847. The Owen Laboratory, the last of several he arranged and equipped, was
                    completed in 1859, but he used it only briefly before his death. He married Caroline C. Neef, third
                    daughter of Joseph Neef, at the Triple Wedding, March 23, 1837, when his brother Richard married
                    Caroline's younger sister, Anne Eliza Neef, and brother William married Mary Bolton,
                    daughter of another participant in the Owen experiment.19
            
            David Dale Owen's papers contain a medical class notebook dated 1836 and several letters
                    largely about his scientific work written to his brother Richard; to Edward T. Cox, a 
                        New Harmony
                     geologist and colleague; and to some political figures. The most unusual item among his
                    papers is the rough draft of the article, "Regarding Human Foot-Prints in Solid Limestone
                    …," which he wrote for the American Journal of Science and
                        Arts.
               20 He discussed the various theories that had been expressed
                    concerning the origin of the footprints on a limestone slab still to be seen in 
                        New Harmony
                    . His conclusions, based on his geological knowledge, were that the footprints are
                    Indian petroglyphs. Two features of this rough draft are of special interest. First, it contains the
                    letter written to R. L. Baker, a Harmony Society trustee at Economy, Pennsylvania, by Paul Anderson,
                    who had been in charge of quarrying the slab of limestone and shipping it from the 
                  
                     19 For further information on David Dale Owen's life and
                            activities, see Hendrickson, David Dale Owen: Pioneer Geologist of the Middle
                                West.
                  
                  
                     20 Volume XLIII (July, 1842), 14-82.
               
                    
                    
                        Mississippi
                     River bank near 
                        St. Louis
                     to Frederick Rapp in Harmonie, Indiana, in 1819. The letter describes the circumstances
                    and the original location of the stone.21 Second, most of the article draft is
                    in Robert Dale Owen's handwriting instead of David Dale Owen's, which causes some
                    speculation.
            Jane Dale Owen (1806-1861), youngest daughter of Robert Owen, came to 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1833 after her mother and two older sisters had died in 
                        Scotland
                     within a two-year period. Equally as gifted intellectually both in literature and
                    science as her brothers, she often assisted them in their scientific writings. In 1835 she married
                    Robert H. Fauntleroy, a civil engineer from 
                        Virginia
                    . After the early death of her husband in 1849, she set up a school for young ladies. As
                    has been noted, in 1853 she and her four children accompanied Robert Dale Owen and his family
                    abroad, where the children were given the advantages of a continental education.
            Few of Jane Dale Owen's papers are in this collection. One, however, a letter dated April
                    17, 1837, is of interest. It is addressed to her three brothers and their wives—the six
                    principals at the Triple Wedding which had taken place only a few weeks before: 
                  
                     
                        My dear Brothers and Wives—
                        How goes the world with you? Is the honeymoon as bright a luminary as it pretends to
                                    be? Fie on it if you have allowed one cloud of discontent to disfigure its pretty
                                    face though its cause be ever so legitimate, though the hearth has been swept twice
                                    too clean and the bread has turned out twice too heavy.
                        By this time too no doubt the notable housekeepers have cleared away all traces of
                                    their disorderly sisterhood and you all look as neat and prim as old maids and
                                    bachelors.
                     
                  
               
            
            Richard Owen (1810-1890), a geologist and doctor, was the youngest son of Robert Owen. He served as
                    an officer in both the Mexican and the Civil wars; taught at Western Military Institute in 
                        Tennessee
                     from 1849 to 1859; and from 1864 to 1879 was a professor at Indiana University, where
                    he taught geology, chemistry, natural philosophy, and languages. He helped plan Purdue University
                    and was its first president, but resigned in 1874 before the first classes were held. The years of
                    retirement were spent in scientific research. He shared with his father and with his brother, Robert
                        
                  
                     21 The letter from Anderson to Baker is quoted in full in Wilson. Angel and the Serpent. 73.
               
                     Dale, their keen interest in education and social reform, but
                    carried on his activities more within the academic framework than did they. His first wife, Martha
                    Chase, was an art teacher and a member of the Owen Community; his second wife was Anile Eliza,
                    youngest daughter of Joseph Neef.22
            
            Richard Owen's papers make up the largest part of the Owen Family Papers. They include his
                    personal, business, professional, and scientific correspondence, and the journals, memos, and field
                    books he kept of his geological surveys. Hundreds of his manuscripts were found all over the
                    Laboratory, and many had to he examined sheet by sheet in order to identify and classify them.
                    Richard Owen used every imaginable scrap of paper that was handy; sometimes a small sheet will
                    contain notes on as many as five or six subjects, most of them in memorandum form, and he seems
                    never to have discarded any of them! It is apparent from the arrangement of the rare undisturbed
                    portions of the collection that Richard Owen himself had left his papers in a kind of order. This is
                    particularly true of the materials he used for teaching. Packets of lecture notes and articles for
                    newspapers and professional journals were found still tied in their pieces of old twine and ribbon
                    and neatly piled in his trunks.
            Richard Owen's correspondence covering the years 1840-1889 numbers almost two hundred and
                    fifty items. Among them are letters (or copies) to and from his wife and children; his father; his
                    brothers and their wives; editors of newspapers and periodicals; scientific and educational
                    colleagues—Louis Agassiz, Baron Alexander von Humboldt, James Dwight Dana, James Hall,
                    Leo Lesquereux, Theophilus A. Wylie, Edward T. Cox, Eugene R. Boch, Daniel Kirkwood; Horace Greeley;
                    politicians and statesmen—Governor Oliver P. Morton of Indiana, Presidents Lincoln and
                    Grant, Vice President Schuyler Colfax, James G. Blaine. The subjects include Richard's
                    personal, family, and business affairs; his work and publications; the Mexican War; Western Military
                    Institute; the Civil War—such topics as military affairs, Camp Morton at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Vicksburg; his years as a teacher at Indiana University; the 
                  
                     22 Albjerg, Richard Owen: 
                                    Scotland
                                 1810—Indiana 1890, provides information on
                            Richard's varied activities.
               
                     International Geological Congress in 1885; exchanges of views
                    on scientific research after his retirement.
            Richard's recording of the minutiae of his daily life provides much raw material for a
                    full-scale biography. His personal papers abound in autobiographical information: "Notes
                    for Autobiography," "List of Writings," daily schedules; notes on a trip
                    to Europe and the Holy Land in 1869; expense memoranda; mailing lists; diet information; recipes,
                    formulas, and prescriptions; organization memberships; attitude toward religion; ideas on
                    immigration; his certificate of naturalization, dated October 8, 1835, and his passport; pros and
                    cons of taking the teaching post at Indiana University; his faculty duties at 
                        Bloomington
                    ; programs for social, church, and university events; public honors.
            The papers relating to Richard's professional and scientific activities reveal a man of wide
                    interests and abilities. They cover such subjects as physics and chemistry; geology and meteorology;
                    geography, botany, and zoology; anatomy, physiology, and hygiene; education; fine arts, language,
                    and literature. Among these papers are materials used for teaching, such as lecture notes,
                    memoranda, and examinations; lectures and addresses to various audiences and learned societies;
                    drafts of articles and letters to newspapers or journals; and notes and rough drafts for survey
                    reports. Many copies and variations of drafts occur for the same article or lecture. This is
                    particularly true of his geological and meteorological writings: the same title sometimes will have
                    as many as six copies in varying degrees of completeness. Though they are written in longhand, these
                    may have been intended for the colleagues and correspondents on his lengthy mailing list.
            That the son adhered to many of his father's ideas is revealed in Richard's papers
                    on educational theory: "Infant Schools," "Education, Female,"
                    "Admitting Ladies to the Indiana University." In a memorandum he says: 
                        If it is proved that Ladies should be admitted to college classes anywhere, I know of no
                            reason why they should not to the Indiana University…. I shall endeavor to show
                            that this would be nothing more than justice…. To woman is peculiarly entrusted
                            the early  care of youth, when the character is forming,
                            therefore she should have every facility for acquiring the best education that the parental
                            means will permit…. But the great advantage is in the refinement of manners
                            communicated to the young men who might otherwise suffer from rudeness or
                            awkwardness….
                     As Purdue's first president, Richard Owen spent several years, without pay, in
                    assembling plans for the new college. In a packet he inscribed "Plans for the State
                    Agricultural College" are drawings of the physical layout, a course of study, financial
                    estimates, and much background information.
            The manuscript of Richard Owen's Key to the Geology of the Globe (
                        Nashville
                    , 1857), and the incomplete manuscript of his Report of a Geological
                        Reconnoissance of Indiana, made during the years 1859 and 1860 (
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1862) are in the collection. One packet concerns his entry for the international
                    contest for popularizing the study of geography, sponsored in 1885 by the King of 
                        Belgium
                    , and illustrates the thorougness of Richard's scientific mind. He was then in
                    his seventies. In this packet are "memoranda for typewriting," labels for models
                    and a sheet listing the materials needed for their construction, and even the exchange of letters
                    with a Madame Montagnier of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , who helped with the French translation.
            Among Richard's papers are journals, ledgers, account books, geological field books,
                    memoranda, copybooks, and notebooks—altogether there are fourteen of these items. Several
                    are notebooks of medical lectures at the University of 
                        Nashville
                    ; in addition to class notes these contain later notes and lists on many other subjects.
                    The geological survey field books are particularly interesting. One, dated May-August, 1849, is the
                    journal of a trip taken along the Upper 
                        Mississippi
                     and the north shore of Lake Superior and contains observations of an ethnological
                    nature. For example, the June 19 entry reports the following, which occurred at "a trading
                    post in the Indian Country": 
                        Naganuk and Shingook (another chief) have just paid us a visit and are now sitting
                            cross-legged on the floor of our tent, smoking their pipes and having a talk with Dr.
                            Norwood; the remainder crowding round the tent and squatting where they can listen. Naganuk
                            appears to me to have lost the natural grace peculiar to many of the Indians and to be
                            rather constrained in his movements in his military coat. While  smoking he has deposited his black silk gloves on his crossed
                            legs. His boy accompanies him clothed in bright scarlet leggings and a blue coat with green
                            cuffs and facings. Some of them have a band to confine the hair, placed halfway back of the
                            head, the front portion of hair being cut short and square across, the posterior portion
                            long and plaited, three white colored earrings in each ear.
                     Sketches clarify the description. The other field books relate to the Indiana geological
                    surveys of 1859 and 1860, and include field sketches and careful lists of itineraries and expenses.
                    That Richard was a man of memoranda is illustrated by one small book, which contains notes on such
                    diverse subjects as "Table of High Temperatures"; "Wards (Large) Fossils
                    in Museum"; "List of desirable Bks. for Purdue"; numerous items headed
                    "mem"; comments on his own and his wife's health; "Boxes and
                    contents packed May, 1873."
            After his retirement from Indiana University in 1879, Richard spent the last eleven years of his life
                    in scientific research, with emphasis in the field of terrestrial magnetism. It is during this time
                    that he experimented and wrote articles for professional journals, prepared papers for the meetings
                    of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and carried on a lively correspondence
                    with his scientific colleagues. A notebook on seismology is filled with observations on earthquakes
                    which he used in his later treatises. In one notebook dating from this period was a loose sheet on
                    which were listed "Facts supposed not to have been published until I gave them to A.A.A.S.
                    or other sources."
            The members of the Owen family were closely associated with 
                        New Harmony
                    's cultural and social life. The collection at the Laboratory contains several
                    items indicating that their broad interests and their contributions to the community's
                    development continued long after the Owen experiment. Among these is a rough draft of the
                    constitution of the 
                        Posey County
                     Agricultural Society, dated 1859 and written by Richard Owen. Also in the collection
                    are the minutes of the 
                        New Harmony
                     Society for Mutual Improvement, a literary society organized by the members of the
                    Workingmen's Institute but independent of it. The minutes cover the period from 1879 to
                    1883 and are inscribed by various secretaries.23
            
            
               
                  23 Richard Owen was a member of the committee that wrote the constitution
                        of the Society for Mutual Improvement, and served as its president from September, 1879, to May,
                        1883.
            
            
            Perhaps the most exciting item in this portion of the collection is a small packet of original
                    writings for the Minerva Society, one of the earliest women's clubs in the country. These
                    compositions include the inaugural address of the first president, written in her own hand, dated
                    September 26, 1859, and signed "Constance Faunt Le Roy."24 Two
                    literary pieces written by Mary Sampson25 specifically for the meetings of
                    January 16, 1860, and June 24, 1861, display the quality of the work expected by her Minerva Society
                    sisters. One letter in the packet discusses the Society and encloses the "Role of
                    Members" for 1863, describing the activities of member participants.26
            
            A small copybook, written in an unknown hand and containing both Mary Sampson's and Florence
                    Dale Owen Cooper's27 writings for the Minerva Society, injects two
                    notes of poignancy. One section of the copybook is headed: "Mary's Prose and
                    Poetry Copied Dec. 29, 1862, First Composition, written for the Minerva." This section
                    includes "The Wind," which is identified as Mary's "Last
                    Piece" and is a sad reminder of her tragic death. Another entry has the following note:
                    "Since beginning the copying of our darling Mary's poetry the heart breathings of
                    Florence the light of our home circle, are left me to place side by side with those writings she so
                    dearly loved during her life." This moving entry refers to Florence Cooper, who had
                    literally worn herself to death at the age of twenty-seven nursing in the Civil War hospital at 
                        Evansville
                    . The compositions preserved in this copybook indicate that the Minerva Society members
                    were well educated 
                  
                     24 Constance Owen Fauntleroy, later Mrs. James Runcie, was a daughter
                            of Jane Dale Owen Fauntleroy. She played an important role in the women's club
                            movement in the 
                                United States
                            .
                  
                     25 Mary Sampson became the wife of Robert Dale Owen's son
                            Julian Dale. She drowned in August, 1862, while traveling down the 
                                Mississippi
                             River to visit her husband, who was stationed at Helena, 
                                Arkansas
                            .
                  
                     26 Lydia Hinckley to Della Mann (later the wife of Richard
                            Owen's son Eugene Fellenberg Owen), January 25, 1863.
                  
                     27 Florence Dale Owen was the older daughter of Robert Dale Owen. She
                            was married at Naples to Dr. James Cooper while her father was minister to the Court of the
                            Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. After the birth of their son the Coopers agreed upon a
                            separation; the mutual agreement was found among Robert Dale Owen's papers in the
                            Laboratory.
               
                     and had gifts beyond those expected of teenagers and young
                    adults today.
            The succeeding generations of the Owen family continued to be a closely-knit group. They corresponded
                    profusely and at length with each other and with numerous aunts, uncles, and cousins of the
                    collateral lines. All members of the family up to the present lime are represented in the Owen
                    Family Papers. Of special interest, however, are the Civil War letters of Robert Owen's
                    grandchildren, the first American-born generation of Owens. Other correspondence and papers of
                    particular interest are those of the literary Owens. Among these are the papers of Rosamond Dale
                    Owen Oliphant Templeton,28 who had a delightfully bizarre personality and life,
                    and of Caroline Dale Parke Snedeker, the author of a number of young people's books which
                    include reminiscences of 
                        New Harmony
                     and the Owen family.
            The items that comprise the Picture Collection were as widely scattered throughout the Laboratory as
                    were the manuscripts. In this collection are approximately one hundred drawings and paintings done
                    in pencil, watercolors, wash, and bistre, and almost two hundred prints, including etchings and
                    lithographs. A number of the originals are the work of Charles Alexander Lesueur, the four Owen
                    brothers, Martha Chase, and other members of the Owen Community artist group. Some are signed or
                    have notations which make it possible to attribute them to particular individuals. Many are scenes
                    of 
                        New Harmony
                     and its environs as they appeared at the time of the Owen experiment and are invaluable
                    for supplying authentic versions of the Harmonist buildings and layout of the town. For example, a
                    pencil drawing of the Harmonist Church has the notation: "The Hall or brick church in about
                    1832 when the wall began to crack out a bit, window supported by a beam. (Taken from the N.
                    W.)." The note is in Richard's handwriting, but the drawing is signed
                    "Martha." On another is the note, written probably by Richard: " (D. D.
                    Owen's First Laboratory drawn by my bro. William) 22 Aug. 
                  
                     28 Rosamond Dale Owen was Robert Dale Owen's younger
                            daughter. Her first husband, spiritualist Sir Lawrence Oliphant, died a short time after
                            their marriage. Her second husband was Murray Templeton, an associate of Oliphant.
               
                     1829. From Nature—Part of Steam Mill St. N. Harmony,
                    Ia. William Owen inv. et al."29
            
            A drawing titled "The Lady Washington, a sandstone bluff at 
                        Rockport
                        Spencer
                     Co. on the 
                        Ohio
                    ," is signed "D. D. Owen" and appears to be the original
                    drawing for an illustration used in Richard Owen's Report of a Geological
                        Reconnoissance of Indiana, made during the years 1859 and 1860.
            
            Subjects of the unsigned original drawings are the town and its surroundings, foliage, landscapes,
                    still lifes, figures, animals, faces, and a large number of European scenes, mainly
                            
                  Scotland, Switzerland
               , and 
                        Germany
                    . The artists are probably the persons already mentioned. Many of the drawings were
                    undoubtedly produced in the art classes taught by Martha Chase and Lesueur. Some seem to have been
                    used by the classes because they are numbered or otherwise marked. Quite a few are dated or
                    identified as to place by Robert Dale, Richard, and possibly David Dale. It is interesting to be
                    able to compare several artists' versions of the same subject. For example, there are two
                    renderings, both in bistre and both dated October, 1830, of a bewitching old tree stump. One of the
                    drawings, the finer of the two, is titled, "Clorion après Ct.
                    Bourgeois." 
                        New Harmony
                     street scenes showing the Harmonist buildings, views of the town from Indian
                        Mound hill, the Cut-Off Stream, and the exquisite water colors of river views
                    (probably painted by Martha Chase since they were found in her paintbox) seem as bright and clear
                    today as they were more than a hundred years ago. The note on a charming pencil drawing of the
                    Rapp-Maclure home contains the following bits of history: "Probable site of D. D.
                    Owen's house," written in Richard's hand; "Residence of the Free
                    Enquirer" written by Robert Dale; and written faintly in the upper left hand corner,
                    "X 38" (October, 1838?). An unsigned watercolor of Braxfield, the Owen family home
                    in 
                  
                     20 Photographs of these original drawings were made by early 
                                New Harmony
                             photographers such as William Lichtenberger and Homer Fauntleroy. The
                            photographs are in the collections of the Indiana State Library and the Indiana Historical
                            Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , and of Don Blair and the Workingmen's Institute at 
                                New Harmony
                            .
               
                    
                    
                        Scotland
                    , with the place name written in by Robert Dale Owen, causes speculation as to when and
                    by whom it was painted.
            The prints in the picture collection date from late eighteenth through the early and mid-nineteenth
                    centuries. Subjects are people of distinction in world affairs, politics, and literature; some are
                    portraits of individuals connected with 
                        New Harmony
                    , such as a picture of William Maclure done in 1824 which has the following notation in
                    Richard's hand: "Wm. Maclure, at about age 50, I think." Many are
                    landscapes, seascapes, buildings in 
                  England, Scotland, Switzerland, Italy, France
               , and the 
                        United States
                    . A group of early prints contains a number of fine and rare bird items, among them
                    Titian R. Peale's "Wild Turkey." Another group of thirty-one prints,
                    largely of animals, probably belonged to Robert Dale since they have notations in his handwriting
                    and were discovered in n book of views of Florence, 
                        Italy
                    , which belonged to his wife, Mary Jane. The book is dated 1857, during the time he was
                    at the Court of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies. One group contains prints probably used as models
                    for art class study because the same subjects that are in the prints turn up in drawings made by
                    both Robert Dale Owen and David Dale Owen.30
            
            The variety of the materials in the Owen Family Papers demonstrates the wide range of social,
                    cultural, scientific, and educational interests of Robert Owen's children and their
                    families. The collection also adds information about the activities of some of the gifted men and
                    women who first came to 
                        New Harmony
                     because of the ideas and plans of Owen and Maclure. The Owenites "left few
                    physical marks upon the town, but the culture and tradition they established have persisted in the
                    quiet and lovely little village on the 
                        Wabash
                     …. Because of them, it has attracted, through the years, many of the best
                    minds in the country; and its history is un-equaled by any other town of its size in the reforms and
                    social movements it has inaugurated."31
            
            The individuals represented in the collection, and other talented residents of the Owen
                    Community—such as scientists 
                  
                     30 One drawing, David Dale Owen's version of
                            Vernet's "Horse's Head," is in the Workingmen's
                            Institute art gallery.
                  
                     31 William E. Wilson, The 
                                    Wabash
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 148.
               
                     Thomas Say and Gerard Troost, educator Marie Duclos Fretageot,
                    artist Lucy Sistaire Say, engraver Cornelius Tiebout—"remained to illuminate the
                    western wilderness with their literary and scientific learning and … furnished a social
                    coterie which never ceased to astonish and delight visitors…."32 But from the start the Owen children and their families were the leaders around whom the
                    social and scientific life of the community developed. In the Owen Family Papers the purposes,
                    impetus, and imprint of the inheritors of the culture and traditions of Robert Owen and William
                    Maclure are plainly exhibited.
            
               
                  32 Clarence P. Wolfe, The Story of 
                                New Harmony
                            
                   ([
                            New Harmony
                        , 1930]), 11. Among the scholars and travelers who were attracted to 
                            New Harmony
                         in the decades following the end of the Owen experiment were Constantine
                        Rafinesque, Maximilian Prinz zu Wied-Neuwied, Karl Bodmer, Frances Trollope, Karl Bernhard Duke
                        of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach, John James Audbubon, Sir Charles Lyell.
            
         
         
         
            Tribute to R. Carlyle Buley∗
            
            R. Carlyle Buley, a native Hoosier, received the Bachelor's and Master's degrees
                    from Indiana University. After serving one year in the 
                        United States
                     Army and teaching eight years in the high schools of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , he resumed his graduate work and received the Doctor's degree from the
                    University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     in 1925. He returned to Indiana University that year as an instructor in history. In
                    1958 he received an honorary D. Litt. from Coe College. Professor Buley retired from active teaching
                    service in June, 1964.
            During his thirty-nine years as a member of the Indiana University Department of History, Professor
                    Buley published a number of volumes of history. These include a two-volume Old
                        Northwest: Pioneer Period, 1815-1840, which was awarded the Pulitzer Prize in history in
                    1951, and a two-volume history of life insurance which was awarded the Elizur Wright Award in 1953.
                    At present he is completing work on a two-volume history of the Equitable Life Assurance Society. In
                    addition, he is well along on a history of the Lilly family and Eli Lilly and Company, which have
                    played an important part in the history of Indiana and of Indiana University. Professor Buley also
                    has been largely instrumental in bringing to the Indiana University Library some of its valued
                    collections; among these are the Oakleaf Lincoln Collection— perhaps the finest of its
                    kind in the world—the War of 1812 Collection, and the Lafayelte Collection.
            Teaching has always had an automatic and fundamental priority for Professor Buley. His office hours
                    have been long and continuous. His research, writing, and other duties could be temporarily
                    postponed, but, save for emergencies, his door has always been open to students. How any man could
                    spend so much time with so many students and also do extremely significant research and writing is
                    indeed amazing. 
                  
                     ∗ This tribute to Professor Buley was printed in the
                            program for a dinner on May 5, 1964, at which members of the administration and faculty of
                            Indiana University gave special recognition to eight retiring members of the faculty. The
                            citation, which was written by the editor of the Indiana Magazine of
                            History, is reprinted here with minor changes. Professor Buley served as Managing
                            Editor of the Indiana Magazine of History during the late 1920's
                            and early 1930's. He has long been a member of the Editorial Advisory Committee as
                            well as a contributor to and ardent supporter of the Magazine.
                  
               
                     Students have appreciated and recognized his interest in and
                    contributions to them. His classes have been large. In 1952 he was awarded the Leather Medal,
                    offered annually by the Indiana University chapter of Sigma Delta Chi journalism fraternity to the
                    individual who has brought the most distinction to the University in the preceding year. In 1962 the
                    same organization awarded him the 
                        Brown
                     Derby as the most popular professor on campus. In both his teaching and his writing,
                    Professor Buley has endeavored to be what he himself has called a "romantic
                    realist." The home with its luxuriant sweep of greenery that he and Mrs. Buley have long
                    had on the Ellettsville Road is still another facet of this view of life.
            Professor Buley's fundamental and abiding commitment to Indiana and the Middle West has been
                    one of the basic forces of his life. His fondness for the writings of James Hall, Timothy Flint,
                    Daniel Drake, and other Midwestern pioneers who wrote of the natural resources, the beauty, the
                    achievements, and the further potential of the Middle West, is grounded in his personal convictions
                    about the greatness of its history and heritage. He has often expressed his gratitude for the
                    important and sustained efforts of Eli Lilly and J. K. Lilly to preserve the memory and
                    understanding of this past. He has also valued the outstanding work of Richard Lieber in
                    establishing parks and historical memorials in the Hoosier State. His commitment to Indiana and the
                    Middle West includes also an enduring conviction that Indiana University has major, continuing
                    responsibilities for keeping alive an interest in and serious study of the history and heritage of
                    both the state and the region of which it is a part.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The French & British in the Old Northwest: A Bibliographical Guide to Archive
                        and Manuscript Sources. By Henry Putney Beers. (
                        Detroit
                    : 
                        Wayne
                     State University Press, 1964. Pp. 297. Notes, bibliographical sources, index.
                    $11.50.)
            Bibliographies are the scholar's indispensable comfort, whether they are compiled by the
                    scholar, by a guided aide, or by an independent bibliographer. Most bibliographies have their
                    shortcomings no matter by whom they are compiled. Furthermore, most bibliographies are dull reading.
                    Theoretically, a bibliographer is a gatherer of materials, a compiler of lists of titles, a
                    describer of physical objects, and a discoverer of "ill-considered trifles." It is
                    not (normally) the province of the bibliographer to judge the materials he locates nor to display
                    more than rudimentary erudition.
            Mr. Beers has produced an eminently satisfactory bibliography or, as he prefers to call it,
                    "A Bibliographical Guide to Archive and Manuscript Sources," for the French and
                    the British in the Old Northwest Territory. The bibliographer's intention is clearly stated
                    in the first paragraph of his Preface: "This volume presents an historical account of the
                    acquisition, preservation, and publication by American and Canadian institutions of the original
                    records created by French and British officials in the Old Northwest (the region south of the Great
                    Lakes) chiefly during the eighteenth century, and of officials and governing bodies of 
                        Canada
                     relating to that region."
            The materials for deep research in the history of the Old Northwest are listed and described, the
                    present locations of source materials are given, and then—and then the author moves
                    forward into an area usually neglected by bibliographers. He describes how and why and when the
                    documents reached their present repositories, whenever tracing the provenance is possible. Many of
                    his tales are exceedingly fascinating. Mr. Beers could have listed in catalogue form all the
                    information about titles and bodies of material, and he would have compiled a satisfactory list of
                    usable references. His list would have been made up of facts and, except to the specialist searching
                    for those facts, his list would have been dull. However, Mr. Beers has discarded the formal list in
                    favor of an attempt to tell the story of what is available in the field under discussion in as
                    interesting a manner as possible. It was a difficult task he set himself—and he has
                    succeeded magnificently. He has written a guide which can be read for its "render
                    interest" and which can be used as a means of reaching needed source materials.
            Under four principal headings, Mr. Beers gives a succinct historical summary followed by descriptions
                    of organizations or areas which created records and their present whereabouts with some idea of the
                    extent of completeness. For instance, under the heading "The Records of the British
                    Regime" there is a two-page historical sketch continued from an earlier description of the
                    French regime. This is followed  by a rather detailed account of
                    the government of the country by the British (particularly as it differed from French techniques of
                    government). Then come two sections on the records of the two most important sources of documents,
                    the 
                        Illinois
                     Country and 
                        Detroit
                    . Two important classes of documents are discussed in detail: land records and
                    ecclesiastical records. There are also rewarding discussions of manuscript collections (including
                    bodies of material collected by private individuals and their eventual disposition) and
                    reproductions from British Archives held currently by institutions in the New World.
            A final section of the volume consists of bibliographical sources. It is a model of excellence,
                    although Mr. Beers missed the more valuable second edition of the Clements Library Guide compiled by William S. Ewing in 1953. A new tool, which may not have come to Mr.
                    Beers's attention, is the series of catalogues of important libraries published by the G.
                    K. Hall Company of 
                        Boston
                    . Several of them—the 
                        New York
                     Public Library catalogue of its American section and the New-berry's Edward E.
                    Ayer catalogue, for example—cover such large quantities of books that they can be of
                    great value to the student of the Old Northwest.
            All in all, this is a fine and rewarding work which will satisfy many, many users.
            
                    The Newberry Library
                
            Colton Storm
         
         
            
               Messages and Papers relating to the Administration of Samuel Bigger, Governor of
                        Indiana, 1840-1843. Edited by Gayle Thornbrough. Indiana Historical
                        Collections, Volume XLIV. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Bureau, 1964. Pp. vii, 669. Frontispiece, notes, index.
                    $7.50.)
            The administration of Samuel Bigger as governor of the state of Indiana began on December 9, 1840,
                    and ended with the completion of his single term in office three years later. During this critical
                    period he had to cope with many problems which had their inception in previous administrations and
                    which were destined to carry over into several subsequent administrations.
            While the problem of an extremely ambitious internal improvements program with its numerous financial
                    ramifications was of primary concern to the Bigger administration, such ancillary problems as the
                    public debt, the state bank, taxation, revenue, and relief laws came in for their share of
                    attention. During this period of recurring financial crises in Indiana there was a tendency to
                    neglect less pressing problems. As a result, attempts to improve public education, care of the
                    insane, and conditions at the state prison were undertaken only half-heartedly. The fact that these
                    attempts were relatively slight, however, does not deny good intent on the part of the governor and
                    legislators alike.
            In editing this seventh volume of the Indiana Historical Bureau's series of
                    governors' messages and papers, Miss Gayle Thornbrough was faced with the unenviable task
                    of attempting to present complete coverage of Governor Rigger's administration without
                    benefit of any  collection of Bigger's correspondence.
                    In lieu of such a collection she has had to supplement the few extant letters with numerous other
                    letters which were written by members of the General Assembly and were published in various
                    contemporary newspapers throughout the state. In addition to this material she has included selected
                    items from the Senate and House Journals and the Documentary
                        Journals.
            
            Even though it is both logical and customary to arrange the messages and papers of public officials
                    in chronological sequence, frequently the result is a variegated pattern of events containing many
                    loose ends. This is especially true of the papers of the Bigger administration since many of the
                    problems it faced were common to several administrations. The editor has demonstrated appropriate
                    restraint in not exceeding the limits of the period covered by the messages and papers themselves.
                    In a generous introduction she has carefully delineated the principal problems of the period and has
                    discussed the various attempts at solution. Those readers who desire additional background
                    information need only peruse earlier volumes in this series, while those who are interested in
                    developments subsequent to the Bigger administration can either turn to the original documents or
                    await publication of later volumes of the series.
            Despite the many obstacles inherent in a work of this type, the editor has succeeded in compiling a
                    wealth of information dealing with this early period in Indiana's history. Although in
                    general her selection of documents has been judicious, it appears that a few were included solely
                    for the sake of completeness. For example, all three of the Governor's Thanksgiving
                    proclamations were included in the volume when perhaps one would have sufficed to show that Governor
                    Bigger did not depart from the usual stereotyped holiday proclamation. This observation is not so
                    much a criticism of editorial judgment as it is a commentary on the paucity of extant official
                    documents and letters for the period.
            The annotations of the documents in this collection are both thorough and scholarly. The work is
                    further enhanced by a useful index. While it may have only limited appeal to the casual reader,
                    certainly the serious student of the Hoosier heritage will recognize it as a worthwhile contribution
                    to history and will look forward to the time when other volumes of the series are completed.
            
                    Ball State Teachers College
                
            Richard H. Caldemeyer
         
         
            
               Earlham: The Story of the College, 1847-1962. By Opal Thornburg. (
                        Richmond
                    , Ind.: The Earlham College Press, 1963. Pp. xv, 484. Illustrations, notes, appendixes,
                    index. $7.50.)
            College histories are too often written as by-products of an anniversary celebration or for the
                    edification of the alumni. While they serve the useful purpose of preserving facts about a single
                    institution, which, however small, is of course an integral part of the historic whole, they seldom
                    relate that institution in any significant way to the context of higher education or of national
                    life in which it develops.  Miss Thornburg's lovingly
                    related story of Earlham College has both the virtues and the faults of its kind. Her many years of
                    service successively as registrar, secretary to the President, and archivist, gave her unique
                    insight into the inner workings of the institution, and the opportunity to study its records. For
                    the same reasons, perhaps, her view is limited almost exclusively to the campus, the Friends church,
                    and the vicinity of 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana.
            Earlham College was founded as a 
                        Quaker
                     Boarding School by the Indiana Yearly Meeting in 1847 and became a fully collegiate
                    institution during the fifties. It was one of the earliest coeducational colleges in the country.
                    Although the Indiana Friends in earlier days were not much inclined toward extravagant expenditures
                    for the support of higher education, they did not drive their new institution into bankruptcy and
                    early death, which was the fate of so many church-founded colleges in the Midwest.
                    Earlham's physical plant began with a single half-finished building in the cornfields a
                    mile and a half west of 
                        Richmond
                    . It has grown into a beautiful campus with a dozen modern, highly specialized
                    structures. One of the startling facts pointed out by Miss Thornburg is that it required 108 years
                    for Earlham's annual operating budget to reach a million dollars, but that it then climbed
                    to two million within the next five years (to 1960), and by 1963 had almost reached three million
                    (p. 424).
            Every good college has a distinctive quality of its own, and Earlham's élan is due in no small measure to its 
                        Quaker
                     origins. Faculty meetings still worry through to a consensus rather than splitting down
                    the middle over controversial issues. The authorities fought a long and losing battle against
                    nicotine on the campus but have managed to retain what students call "compulsory"
                    chapel. The pacifist traditions of the Friends have created serious difficulties for Earlham during
                    each of the nation's wars and witch-hunts. But this devotion to nonbelligerence has not by
                    any means protected Earlham from the academic battles which seem to ignite every college campus
                    occasionally. The election of a new president, Joseph John Mills, in 1883, created such dissension
                    that the trustees forced the resignations of the two most popular members of the faculty.
            Although Miss Thornburg deals candidly with this and other unfortunate pages in Earlham's
                    history, her devotion to her subject leads her to make claims of superiority in nearly every
                    paragraph. The fact is, however, that many of these claims are justified. Earlham has emerged from
                    an earlier period of dubious flirtations with vocational subjects as one of the best liberal arts
                    colleges in the Midwest. The last chapter of Miss Thornburg's book, especially, records a
                    dazzling array of foundation gifts, curricular reforms, experiments in international studies,
                    programs of independent study, and achievements of important alumni. "This is a wonderful
                    student generation," wrote one visitor to the campus. "These Earlham young people
                    are alive, keen, intelligent, and concerned. I am amazed at how much they have read, how seriously
                    they face the problems of life, how deeply they are thinking" (p. 433).
            
                    Otterbein College
                
            Lynn W. Turner
         
         
         
            
               The Kickapoos: Lords of the Middle Border. By A. M. Gibson. The
                        Civilization of the American Indian Series, No. 70. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 1963. Pp. xv, 391. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $6.95.)
            "Kickapoo" has probably been used more to refer to a cough syrup than to the
                    Central Algonkian people that are studied in this work by the head of the Manuscript Division of the
                    University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Library. The book is a straightforward historical narrative based almost exclusively on
                    official reports written from the white man's point of view. The reader will find nothing
                    on the culture of the tribe but will find a great deal about the migrations and political
                    maneuverings of the Kickapoo from their first contact with the French "black
                    robes" in the early seventeenth century to their reservation phase in the early twentieth
                    century.
            During their Midwest phase the Kickapoo had mixed success in dealing with the French, British, and
                    Americans, all of whom valued their military aid and dreaded their enmity. After the French lost the
                    Midwest, the Kickapoo adopted the British as their "Father" and attempted to stem
                    the tide of American settlement from about 1780 to 1815. The more famous massacres in which the
                    Kickapoo played a part are described in detail.
            The period of Indian removal following the War of 1812 saw the half dozen independent bands of
                    Kickapoo driven from their homes in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     to the Osage River country of 
                        Missouri
                    . The story becomes rather confused because the author attempts to follow these splinter
                    groups in the wanderings which took them from the Midwest into the Plains and through the southern
                    Plains as far south as northern Coahuila, Mexico.
            The last group to leave 
                        Illinois
                     was the band of Kennekuk, the "prophet," who formed his own religion
                    and exhorted his followers to take up the plow. These Indians settled peacefully in present 
                        Brown
                     County, 
                        Kansas
                    , and had little to do with the other bands that ranged the frontier stealing horses,
                    driving the Osage Indians from their homeland, and terrifying the 
                        Texas
                     settlements.
            The remainder of the book is devoted to the largely unsuccessful efforts of American officials to
                    persuade the Kickapoo to give up their nomadic existence and to accept schools, missionaries, land
                    allotments, and "civilization." The Kickapoo that remain on their reservations in
                    the 
                        United States
                     and Mexico are still remarkably independent and the least acculturated of all the
                    Algonkian-speaking tribes.
            Writing a history of an Indian tribe is a most difficult job despite the efforts of William Fenton,
                    Wilcomb Washburn, and other ethno-historians to remove the thorns from the path of anyone who would
                    make the attempt. A lifetime could be devoted to digesting the relevant historical, linguistic, and
                    ethnological data; and one could only hope to produce the story of the Indian "from the
                    inside" as John Mathews has done in his Osages.
            
            Most of the numerous factual errors in this work flow, however, not from the choice of research
                    methods hut from lark of care in reading  the sources used.
                    There was, for example, no "Kickapoo confederacy" during the early French contact
                    period (p. 13), but simply a war between the Fox Indians and the French. The Kickapoo were not on
                    the warpath in 1805 and 1806 (pp. 55, 57), but were very friendly with their white neighbors during
                    that period. They did not participate in the Pigeon Roost massacre at all and they did not play the
                    leading role in the attack on Fort Harrison (pp. 67-69). The O'Neal massacre took place in 
                        Missouri
                     Territory, not in 
                        Illinois
                     (p. 64), and so on.
            The materials for writing a definitive history of the Kickapoo Indians are available, and in fact are
                    listed in Gibson's extensive bibliography, but that history is still waiting to be written.
            
                    Wheaton Central High School
                
            
                    Wheaton, 
                            Illinois
                        
               
                
            Michael A. McCabe
         
         
            
               Benjamin Logan, 
                            Kentucky
                         Frontiersman. By Charles Gano Talbert. ([
                        Lexington
                    ]: University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 1962. Pp. ix, 332. Notes, bibliographical notes, index. $7.50.)
            
               Benjamin Logan, 
                            Kentucky
                         Frontiersman is much more than a biography of an early settler who became one
                    of the founding fathers of the commonwealth of 
                        Kentucky
                    . It relates Logan's family background in the Shenandoah Valley of 
                        Virginia
                     and later in the Holston Valley of eastern 
                        Tennessee
                     before he moved to the 
                        Kentucky
                     Bluegrass in 1775, just as that region was being settled. It then tells the story of
                    his life in 
                        Kentucky
                     until his sudden death from apoplexy in 1802. But Logan participated so much in the
                    political and military life of 
                        Kentucky
                     that his biography almost of necessity becomes a history of 
                        Kentucky
                     from 1775 to 1802. The emphasis in this volume, however, is on the period from 1775
                    until 1792 when statehood was achieved.
            Talbert gives much attention to Indian affairs, the prolonged 
                        Kentucky
                     statehood movement, and the relations between residents of 
                        Kentucky
                     and the Spanish who controlled the lower 
                        Mississippi
                    . According to Talbert, the concern of Kentuckians about the ability and willingness of
                    the government of the 
                        United States
                     to protect them from the Indians and to protect their interests regarding trade down
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                     delayed the achievement of statehood. But Kentuckians were reassured and their ties to
                    the Union strengthened by the failure of Congress to approve a trade treaty John Jay negotiated with
                    the Spanish during the mid-1780's which would have closed the lower 
                        Mississippi
                     to American trade for a quarter of a century and the increased responsibility which the 
                        United States
                     assumed in protecting frontier settlers from Indian attacks during the late
                    1780's and early 1790's. Talbert apparently regards the possibility that 
                        Kentucky
                     might not have entered the Union upon her detachment from 
                        Virginia
                     as a potentially serious problem which never developed into significant proportions. He
                    indicates that 
                        Kentucky
                    's admission to the Union resulted in no small degree from the substantial
                    understanding and patience, to say nothing of aid and support, which 
                        Virginia
                     afforded 
                        Kentucky
                     settlers, who were citizens of the Old Dominion until 1792.
            
            Benjamin Logan is presented by Talbert as a soldier-politician who possessed great courage, much
                    common sense, and considerable understanding of public affairs. A landowner who was also a
                    slaveholder, Logan frequently sensed and served the public interest. He was a delegate in various of
                    the ten conventions which 
                        Kentucky
                     had in its transition from being a part of 
                        Virginia
                     to becoming the first western state. Logan alternately served in Indian campaigns and
                    in conventions considering statehood. Service in the Indian campaigns by Logan and others at times
                    delayed the deliberations regarding statehood and it also increased the desire of Kentuckians for
                    assurance that the 
                        United States
                     would afford adequate protection against the Indians. Though James Wilkinson implicated
                    Logan—and various other 
                        Kentucky
                     leaders—in the Spanish Conspiracy, Talbert finds "little evidence
                    that would connect him [Logan] with an attempt to separate 
                        Kentucky
                     from the Union" (p. 237). During the last decade of Logan's life he
                    was twice defeated in campaigns for governor.
            Talbert has done much digging to produce this useful account of the life and times of Benjamin Logan.
                    Use has been made of the Draper Collection, but the author shows an awareness of limitations
                    involved in its use. The citations and bibliographical notes indicate that a significant amount of
                    pertinent primary and secondary material also has been effectively used. Through the years Logan has
                    been less well known than George Rogers Clark and Daniel 
                        Boone
                    . Talbert's volume should make Logan more widely known and enhance his
                    reputation as one of the top-ranking men among the early settlers of 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               Frontier Iron: The Maramec Iron Works, 1826-1876. By James D. Norris. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1964. Pp. vii, 206. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $4.25.)
            A motorist crossing 
                        Missouri
                     these days on Highway 66 may turn south at St. James and in a very few minutes come to
                    Maramec Spring, a pleasant park in which to break his journey. After admiring the mammoth spring and
                    the trout pools which it feeds, the traveler will doubtless cross the road and wander through the
                    partially restored ironworks which is the park's other principal attraction.
            Today the reconstructed furnace and the sites of the forges and casting house lie in a peaceful
                    meadow where children romp and picnic baskets are opened. A very different scene greeted the
                    traveler of a century ago. Then the roaring furnace and the noisy forges were surrounded by
                    warehouses, stables, carpenter and blacksmith shops, workers' cabins, a grist mill, and a
                    general store. The "pungent smell of burning charcoal pits" saturated the air,
                    while a hundred to two hundred workmen and their families moved among the buildings. "Iron
                    plantations" such communities were called in colonial days; "company
                    towns," in the nineteenth century.
            
            Beginning in 1826 and continuing for fifty years, the Maramec Iron Works both enticed skilled
                    artisans into remote southeastern 
                        Missouri
                     and offered employment to unskilled local labor. Further, it brought
                    "sorely-needed capital into the region, provided leadership in a burgeoning frontier
                    settlement … and shaped the transportation routes and marketing
                    patterns…." (p. v). Clearly, we have here a superb example of one of those
                    frontier industries that have been too long neglected by historians of the westward movement.
            Professor Norris does well by his subject. He describes the physical and geological features of the
                    region in which the Iron Works was located. He traces and analyzes the genesis, growth, course, and
                    decline of the Works. He comments upon the development of the surrounding area. He presents
                    biographical information about the members of the James family who were the main proprietors of the
                    iron enterprise and the founders of nearby St. James. He gives detailed accounts of the process of
                    iron-making by the charcoal method, and of the production of charcoal. He describes the furnace,
                    forges, and other equipment so minutely that readers of a "do-it-yourself" bent
                    might be tempted to the making of miniature copies. He writes knowledgeably of transportation routes
                    in frontier 
                        Missouri
                    , of the search for new means of transport, and of a changing market structure. Not
                    least, he attempts to relate the iron industry of Maramec to that of the state as a whole, and that
                    of the state to that of the nation.
            In short, this is a book of many virtues. Its value to the specialist is obvious. It ought to appeal
                    to the general reader as well, but I fear that it may not. The person without a strong interest in
                    technology will bog down in Chapter III ("Building an Ironworks"), and perhaps
                    give up entirely in that part of Chapter IV ("Artisans and Colliers") which
                    describes the iron-making process. The wise reader, however, will turn over several pages and go on
                    reading. He will be well rewarded, for when he closes the book he will find that he has a new
                    understanding of what went into the making of America.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Irene D. Neu
         
         
            
               Voices on the River: The Story of the 
                            Mississippi
                         Waterways. By Walter Havighurst. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Company, 1964. Pp. vii, 310. Illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $6.95.)
            The dramatic history of the 
                        Mississippi
                     River and its tributaries has been the subject of numerous books, but there always seem
                    to be possibilities of fresh treatment; as with the colors and patterns seen through a kaleidoscope,
                    there is no end to the intriguing patterns and colorful facets that can be set forth.
            
               Voices on the River, written by a professor of English at Miami University, is not
                    intended for the reference shelf or the academic collateral list but to be read in the unbuttoned
                    freedom of an easy chair when one wearies of world affairs and television trivia. After n long and
                    rather extensive acquaintance with the literature of the 
                    rivers, this reviewer found the Havighurst treatment among the very best and most illuminating. This
                    is not to say, of course, that the reviewer would not have done it rather differently—for
                    the Prologue could have been spared, the chronology tightened up, the parade of meaningless
                    steamboat names and histories shortened, and more of the glorious old "chromos" of
                    river scenes substituted for the selection of rather tepid and monotonous photographs.
            But these things said, the narrative is remarkably strong and the interest well sustained. The
                    outline is simple: the period of exploration and of flatboats and keelboats; the steamboat age; the
                    Civil War; a catch-all section including the post-Civil War packets, the 
                        Missouri
                     trade, loggers' rafts, and showboats; and finally the nine-foot channel and
                    the diesel towboats with their convoys of barges.
            Inevitably, the author had to rely quite largely on contemporary travelers' accounts, but
                    these were judiciously combed and brightly paraphrased. The vignettes that emerge wonderfully
                    illustrate American history—the days of flatboats and keelboats, the Civilized Nations on
                    the way to 
                  Oklahoma, Lafayette
                waiting on the deck of a sinking steamboat while an aide
                    ran for his snuffbox with its enameled portrait of Washington, Irish and German immigrants on the
                    rivers, the Red River raft, steamboat races and disasters, Union gunboats running the gauntlet of
                    Confederate forts, acres of floating logs, and finally the trim new diesel towboats.
            These were the stuff of which American history was made in the great valley, and the inquiring reader
                    can have no more absorbing introduction. Indiana, perhaps, receives a little less than its fair
                    share of treatment in connection with river traffic, but its shipbuilding and steamboat building are
                    described. The book, after all, is mainly about the 
                        Mississippi
                     River.
            There are only a few errors to note. It is not likely that anyone ever tried to row, or pole, or
                    cordelle a flatboat from 
                        New Orleans
                     to 
                        Louisville
                     (p. 34). The Confederate dead at 
                        Shiloh
                     were probably less than 2,000 rather than 13,000 (p. 175). The 
                        Decatur
                     cited on page 105 is in 
                        Alabama
                    .
            
                    University of 
                            California
                        , Santa Barbara
                
            Leland D. Baldwin
         
         
            
               Voices in the Valley: Mythmaking and Folk Belief in the Shaping of the Middle
                    West. By Frank R. Kramer. (
                        Madison
                    : University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 1964. Pp. xvii, 300. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $5.00.)
            Written in the tradition of Herodotus, who, Professor Kramer says, "knew better than most of
                    us how curiously the themes of lore make up the symphony of history, how inevitably the oboes and
                    strings of legend supplement brass facts" (p. 27), Voices in the Valley
                    is a study of the traditional attitudes of several of the ethnic groups that have lived in the
                    Middle West. Its contention is that folk belief is  the same
                    everywhere and always, that each group embodies its explanation of power and its view of reality in
                    myth. For Kramer myth does not mean a narrative about the gods, but a simplified formula like
                    "dialectical materalism," "the homestead," or "the
                    American way of life." These formulations are created through the processes of folk logic,
                    which include "analogy, contrast, reciprocal exchange of qualities, the narrowing of
                    everything to a single factor and the making of that factor an absolute" (p. xxi). Though
                    these processes go on everywhere, the Middle West is an especially interesting laboratory in which
                    to view their configurations, for the rapid changes there from wilderness to farm to factory enable
                    us to see how one myth fused with another, and especially how much of the mentality summed up in the
                    myth of the agricultural homestead has survived in the industrial era.
            Kramer divides his book into three parts. The first, "Frenchman and Huron," is an
                    account of the animistic beliefs of the Huron Indians in 
                        Canada
                     and how the French were able to succeed in the Great Lakes area largely because of
                    their understanding of Indian mentality. The second, "The Great Interior," shows
                    how the "rational myth" of the inventive, individualistic, atomistic Yankee
                    conflicted with the more traditional outlook of both the Pennsylvania Germans and the Southerners.
                    These conflicts brought sharply into focus the myth of the garden in which the farmer was glorified
                    as the chief producer and railroads and factories were thought of as merely extensions of
                    "the homestead." When the country became industrialized, the homestead was
                    transformed into something new called "the American way of life." Nevertheless, as
                    Kramer says, in the new myth many of the attitudes of the homestead survived. As an example he
                    points to Henry Ford, who had been born on a 
                        Michigan
                     farm and who tried to establish at Flat Rock "a homestead," where
                    workers could have farms as well as jobs.
            The discussion of bits of lore such as labor songs of protest, the ritual of the Patrons of
                    Husbandry, the ballads of Bohemian immigrants, the Huron Feast of the Dead, and the proverbial
                    sayings of the Pennsylvania Germans is so interesting that one is sorry to move on to the concluding
                    section of the book, six theoretical chapters on the relation of myth to history. Though they teem
                    with big words, these final chapters are not really informative. For instance, though the idea that
                    human nature doesn't change fundamentally can scarcely be news to his readers, Professor
                    Kramer finds he must remind them of it at least twice. The first time he refreshes their memories by
                    quoting from another authority to the effect that the derm of the barbarian lies just under the
                    epiderm of the civilized man (p. 182). A little later, he writes "the conclusion is
                    difficult to avoid that the manner in which people today account for their role in the universe and
                    in society is essentially the same as it has been for millennia" (p. 207). Even in the
                    earlier sections of the book his love for notable phrases occasionally betrays him, as in his
                    account of the thoughts of a newspaper reporter at a country fair in 1854. The reporter, after
                    wondering earnestly if the farmers who had just listened to an address on  scientific agriculture were "travelling from dusty bondage
                    into luminous air," finally decides that but few of them could have caught "the
                    vision of light anatomized" (p. 127). No reporter in 1854 would have phrased his thoughts
                    in just that way, since the poem—a rather bad one—from which these quotations
                    come was not written until several generations later.
            But these flaws do not invalidate Kramer's thesis. Voices in the Valley
                    clearly shows that historians should take into account the traditional patterns of thought of the
                    common people. It describes vividly and informatively how these patterns are present in events like
                    county fairs, elections, camp meetings, grange meetings, and the conventions of labor organizations.
                    When Kramer is not trying to write like a rhetorician or a social scientist, he is lively and
                    interesting. The extensive bibliography on which Voices in the Valley is based
                    will be useful, especially to anyone wishing to study the effect of mythopoetic thinking upon
                    behavior.
            
                    Western Reserve University
                
            George Kummer
         
         
            
               An Episode in Anti-Catholicism: The American Protective Association. By Donald
                    L. Kinzer. (Seattle: University of Washington Press, 1964. Pp. ix, 342. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $6.50.)
            Professor Kinser has closely documented this presentation of facts and figures relating to the
                    origins, growth, and decline of the American Protective Association. In so doing he has provided a
                    substantial reference work on this largely anti-Catholic, sometimes nativist, society. Moreover, he
                    has clarified the role played by the APA in American politics during the last decade of the
                    nineteenth century.
            When riding its crest, 1894-1895, the APA was a federated group of independent
                    "patriotic," "nativist" societies which obscured their separate
                    identities. The APA, existing concurrently as an independent anti-Catholic society spanning the
                    years 1887-1908, was organized and controlled by Henry F. Bowers. It gave its name for a time to the
                    nationally prominent association of anti-Catholic societies. It expired, abandoned by its
                    opportunistic supporters, as it had begun—the personal property of Bowers.
            The APA was organized by Bowers and a group of friends who perceived a Catholic menace in the
                    politics of Clinton, 
                        Iowa
                    . As the new organization branched into community after community its cardinal program
                    became the protection of public schools from the Catholic threat. This objective was usually
                    promoted through political activity, even though the group regularly claimed a nonpartisan status.
                    While the dangers of entangling political alliances were recognized, the APA's nativistic
                    tone was antagonistic to Democratic party programs, and it became the inevitable (unwilling and
                    unwanted) captive of the Republican party. The latter used the APA when useful, disassociated itself
                    when expedient, and disregarded the APA's imperious demands for legislation. The Republican
                    party took this posture even as the  APA spread like wildfire
                    through the Midwest, the West, and the Northeast: at its zenith in 1894, it claimed over two and a
                    half million members.
            While the APA could point to occasional local political and program success, the national record was
                    one of failure. Its only significant national achievement was to participate in the denial of
                    federal support to the denominational Indian reservation schools. Defeats met attempts to keep
                    Catholics out of public jobs, to remove tax-free status from religious property, to secure broadly
                    restrictive immigration laws, and to require public inspection of private detentional institutions.
            The APA's political influence was regularly exaggerated by the press; newspaper publicity,
                    rather than its record of accomplishment, accounts for the widespread attention the APA received
                    from politicians and public alike. It declined rapidly after the 1896 presidential campaign when its
                    failure to influence was brightly evident. During this campaign, tearing splits developed within the
                    movement's leadership, and the confederation dissolved. The APA existed again only as a
                    small band of anti-Catholic agitators.
            The author chose to treat the APA development on a yearly basis with subdivisions of his material
                    falling into geographical areas. Scattered throughout, too, are found occasional judgments by
                    Professor Kinzer, useful to the reader's understanding. Perhaps the source material is too
                    fragmentary and too unrelated to the broad national objectives of the movement to have made a
                    topical analysis meaningful or even possible.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Jack J. Detzler
         
         
            
               Harper of 
                            Detroit
                        : The Origin and Growth of a Great Metropolitan Hospital. By Frank B. Woodford
                    and Philip P. Mason. (
                        Detroit
                    : 
                        Wayne
                     State University Press, 1964. Pp. 392. Illustrations, appendixes, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $7.95.)
            The institutional history of a representative American hospital, not infrequently the
                    antiquarian's delight, has received a thorough and scholarly treatment with the publication
                    of Harper of 
                            Detroit
                        . The authors, Woodford, former journalist and student of 
                        Michigan
                     history, and Mason, archivist for 
                        Wayne
                     State University, have produced a chronological account of the growth of Harper
                    Hospital. This volume, published to commemorate one century of Harper service to 
                        Detroit
                     (1863-1963) and to the state of 
                        Michigan
                    , will be useful to all who are concerned with institutional history.
            From a Civil War rehabilitation center to an integral part of a modern medical center, from bleeding
                    and cupping to cobalt units and artificial kidneys, Harper faithfully fulfilled the terms of the
                    Harper trust, which called for "a hospital for the benefit and relief of the sick and aged
                    poor within the limits or adjacent to the said city of 
                        Detroit
                    " (p. 10). Whatever the motives of the obscure Walter Harper and his garrulous
                    "housekeeper" Nancy Martin in establishing the  original trusts for Harper Hospital, within a few short years the entire community had benefited.
                    The exigencies of the Civil War, growing demands for a 
                        Michigan
                     rehabilitation center, and the leadership assumed by Harper trustees were responsible
                    for the opening of Harper Hospital in October 1864.
            Drawing upon municipal records, minutes of executive meetings, and using correspondence and diaries,
                    Woodford and Mason have constructed the day-to-day developments of an expanding urban hospital. With
                    the close of the Civil War, Harper began to accept civilian patients and in the postwar years
                    provided increased service to 
                        Detroit
                     and neighboring communities. The 
                        Detroit
                     Medical College, forerunner of 
                        Wayne
                     State Medical School, was founded on Harper property in 1868. Although no formal
                    affiliation existed between them, both the medical school and the hospital benefited from the close
                    relationship. The authors describe the development of Harper Hospital, its tradition as a training
                    center, and its emergence as one of the most important surgical centers in the 
                        United States
                    , and tell of other institutions that owed their beginnings at least in part to the
                    Harper trust. They show also how the financial position of Harper became increasingly dependent upon
                    the entire community as the institution accepted wider civic responsibility and increased its
                    charitable activities. That 
                        Detroit
                     responded to those financial needs is well documented. Evidence of such assistance was
                    the major building program of the 1880's. It should be noted that descriptions of the
                    changing physical and geographic location of Harper Hospital might well have been facilitated by the
                    use of diagrams or maps.
            The turn of the century brought dramatic changes in the social and economic complexion of
                    Metropolitan 
                        Detroit
                    . Treating these changes in a superficial manner—"A new crop of
                    tycoons was calculating wealth which no longer was derived almost exclusively from Northern mines
                    and forests" (p. 220)—the authors trace the expansion of Harper to meet the
                    demands of the community. The opening of the Hudson Memorial Building early in 1914 was
                    Harper's response to the age of industry and commerce. In dealing with the growth of Harper
                    Hospital after 1914, Woodford and Mason have endeavored to interweave historical developments with
                    the more important stages of Harper service. The clarity and interest of the earlier chapters
                    disappears amidst a deluge of names, unqualified generalizations, and frequent over-simplifications.
                    "The trouble was that the 
                        United States
                     and most of the Western World were living in a dream of
                    unreality…." (p. 273). In the context of institutional history, however, the
                    rebirth of Harper Hospital as a unit of an important medical center comes as a fitting culmination
                    to a history of leadership and dedication to medical science. The usefulness of this volume is
                    increased by the inclusion of a number of biographical sketches treating the lives of physicians and
                    friends of Harper Hospital. The volume is well indexed.
            
                    University of 
                            Cincinnati
                        
               
                
            James J. Doud, Jr
         
         
         
            
               From These Beginnings: The Early Philanthropies of Henry and Edsel Ford,
                    1911-1936. By William Greenleaf. (
                        Detroit
                    : 
                        Wayne
                     State University Press, 1964. Pp. 235. Notes, index. $7.95.)
            The Preface states that this is the "first study of the philanthropies of Henry, Clara, and
                    Edsel Ford in the years before the establishment of the Ford Foundation." In the 188 pages
                    of text, however, Professor Greenleaf seems more interested in Henry Ford's character and
                    personality than in his charitable contributions. On page 5 the author states that Ford
                    "scorned most organized forms of humanitarian benevolence in the belief that they corrupted
                    self reliance and self respect, made unjustifiable demands on society and failed to strike at the
                    fundamental causes of poverty and misery." He also says that "Ford the
                    philanthropist was inseparable from Ford the man and the industrialist. His passionate and legendary
                    individualism, taking counsel of no man, was to be the dominant force in the disposal of his
                    personal fortune for benefactions during his active career" (p. 27).
            Long-range psychological analysis has its pitfalls, and while the author's analysis of Henry
                    Ford seems reasonable and plausible, the reader sometimes feels that it is a bit too pat and neat.
                    Nevertheless, the documentation is good and the writer had access to considerable material in the
                    Ford Archives not usually available to the historian. He states, however, that in rare instances he
                    was not allowed to use some of this material.
            Professor Greenleaf compares the approximately $37.5 million of Ford's personal
                    gifts rather unfavorably with the Rockfeller donations of close to $600 million, the John
                    D. Rockefeller, Jr., gifts of some $400 million, and the Andrew Carnegie contributions of
                    around $325 million. Greenleaf writes: "As a philanthropist in the field of
                    medicine, Ford's general attitude toward public benefactions was complicated by his
                    opinions and notions about the medical arts. Some of these were palpably bizarre and revealed a
                    skepticism and distrust of the medical profession" (pp. 31-32). However, Ford's
                    personal contributions to the Ford Hospital amounted to about $10.5 million.
            Henry Ford's deep feeling for the past is explained as follows: "Like almost every
                    boy and girl of their generation in the Middle West, Henry and Clara Ford were reared on the moral
                    values which adorned the didactic verse William Holmes McGuffey supplied in his books. In this set
                    of ideals, indigenous to the frontier and yeoman outlook of nineteenth-century America, Ford found
                    an enduring standard for social and individual conduct" (p. 73). The center of this
                    antiquarian preoccupation was the Edison Institute at 
                  Dearborn, Michigan
               , where Ford
                    spent over $10 million of his own funds.
            Ford was also involved in two community projects in social rehabilitation which he supported in two
                    sub-marginal districts in 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Georgia
                     during the depression years. The 
                        Richmond
                     Hill project was on Ford's plantation in southeastern 
                        Georgia
                    . The Inkster project was the rescue of a Negro community whose members were about to
                    lose their homes during the depression.
            
            One chapter is reserved for Edsel's activities. In brief, it may be said that Edsel had a
                    much more catholic approach to the question of philanthropy and his assistance ranged from the fine
                    arts to financial backing of Admiral Byrd's polar explorations. The last chapter describes
                    the establishment of the Ford Foundation. According to the author it was established primarily to
                    avoid the increased inheritance taxes sponsored by the New Deal.
            
                    University of 
                            Oklahoma
                        
               
                
            Jim E. Reese
         
         
            
               Progressivism in 
                            Ohio
                        , 1897-1917. By Hoyt Landon Warner. ([
                        Columbus
                    ]: 
                        Ohio
                     State University Press, 1964. Pp. xiii, 556. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $10.00.)
            Professor Warner has filled an important gap in our knowledge of the progressive movement. Hitherto a
                    great deal has been written about the municipal revival in 
                        Ohio
                     led by Samuel M. "Golden Rule" Jones in 
                        Toledo
                    , Tom L. Johnson in 
                        Cleveland
                    , and Washington Gladden in 
                        Columbus
                    . They, and supporters like Frederic C. Howe, Newton D. Baker, and Brand Whitlock,
                    quickly became national figures. But having established a firm base in the cities, the reformers
                    found their work sabotaged and hampered at every turn by the governor and the legislature. The
                    progressive leaders then attempted to reform the state government, and after more than a decade of
                    effort, they succeeded. It is with this much-neglected story of state reform that Progressivism in 
                            Ohio
                        
                is chiefly concerned.
            Progressive reform of 
                        Ohio
                     proved to be a long, uphill struggle. In spite of good organization, able leadership,
                    and effective propaganda, the reformers found it difficult to win sustained support outside the
                    cities. The problems the progressives addressed themselves to were largely urban problems, the
                    reforms they advocated would benefit the cities most immediately. Significantly, the progressives
                    long campaigned for state control of railroad passenger fares, but showed little interest in freight
                    rates. Moreover, the pet panacea of many progressive leaders, the single tax, threatened to put the
                    entire tax burden on land, a prospect far from pleasing to rural voters. Reform was also inhibited
                    by strong crosscurrents engendered by the crusade against the saloon and by anti-Catholic bigotry.
                    It is, therefore, not suprising that the progressives had to struggle so long and so hard or that
                    they were defeated so often. Some progress was made in the administration of Governor Judson Harmon
                    (1909-1913), but Warner makes it clear that Harmon was a conservative Democrat who was not in
                    sympathy with many of the fundamental aims of the progressives. The climax of 
                        Ohio
                     progressivism came in 1912. Aided by the national reform tide, revelations of standpat
                    corruption, and the split in the Republican party, the progressives dominated the constitutional
                    convention of that year with the result that many of their long-sought reforms were written into the
                    fundamental law of the state. James M. Cox, who succeeded Harmon as governor, was able to exploit
                    these changes and  place 
                        Ohio
                     momentarily in the vanguard of national reform. But rural voters brought an end to
                    reform by defeating Cox in 1914, and although Cox was elected again in 1916 the progressive movement
                    in 
                        Ohio
                     did not revive.
            The internal collapse of 
                        Ohio
                     progressivism is highly instructive. It was caused by disillusionment and loss of
                    interest on the part of the reform leaders, and clearly antedated the outbreak of war in Europe. In
                    interpreting this, Warner distinguishes between first and second generations of 
                        Ohio
                     reformers, between Jones, Johnson, and Gladden on the one hand and Whitlock, Baker, and
                    Cox on the other. The second generation, Warner suggests, "lacked the intensive ideological
                    commitment to the cause that sustained the first crusaders" (p. 483). To the earlier
                    leaders, mechanical changes like the initiative and referendum had been means to ultimate ends
                    determined by their various commitments to the single tax or Christian Socialism, but the later
                    reformers lacked or had lost these ultimate commitments. Once the immediate program was achieved the
                    latter-day reformers had nothing further to contribute.
            Professor Warner's book is thorough, reliable, and clearly written. It is a definitive
                    history of 
                        Ohio
                     progressivism, and a most valuable work for anyone interested in the progressive
                    movement.
            
                    Purdue University
                
            Edwin Layton
         
         
            
               An Historian and the Civil War. By Avery Craven. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1964. Pp. v, 233. Notes. $5.95.)
            As one who had his fling at challenging established historians and then, much later, found his own
                    work attacked by revisionists, Avery Craven is well aware that there is no ultimate history, that
                    "the historian is doomed to be forever writing in the sand." Many of us who can
                    remember as far back as the depression fully recognize that the scholar hailed as profound in one
                    generation may be the object of pity in the next. And yet, in this collection of fourteen essays
                    originally published between 1928 and 1964, Mr. Craven never intimates any regret for having chosen
                    his "historical adventure."
            At least to this reviewer Mr. Craven has contributed more than anyone else to an understanding of the
                    Civil War, though it is hard to go along with what he calls the "futility of trying to
                    understand and explain the causes" of that conflict. The explanations are just more
                    sophisticated than most people are willing to contemplate. We still don't know all we need
                    to know about this most "tragic story of the failure of the democratic process,"
                    whether or not we believe "a stumbling, blundering generation" got itself into a
                    needless war. According to Craven, the "war was the product not so much of sectional
                    differences as of emotions developed about differences, which by 1861 made it impossible to reason,
                    to trust, or to compromise" (p. 46).
            Still, through the Mexican War the experiment in democracy seemed to be working well enough. National
                    parties were able to compromise sectional differences, that is until the Democratic party  became the vehicle of slavery, using the Constitution to check
                    northern "progress." At this point Craven reminds us that alongside the
                    Constitution "stands that other troublesome document, the Declaration of Independence, with
                    its promise of greater freedom and equality. If politicians and parties do not sometimes give it
                    heed, they may learn to their sorrow that the great document was written to justify revolt. That too
                    may be a fatal weakness in the democratic process" (p. 97).
            One wonders whether the essayist really had in mind the 1850's or his own day when he wrote:
                    "It was inevitable in such an atmosphere that the extremist … should have
                    appeared with his doctrine that the end justifies the necessary means. Bearing letters of marque
                    from God, his patience exhausted by delay, he was ready to accept personal responsibility for a
                    people's failure to meet their obligations to mankind. He was certain that the only
                    language the opponent could understand was that of force. He was willing to risk war if that were
                    the price for setting the world in order" (p. 146).
            In any case, in the Old Northwest inequality and privilege and economic failure (of farmers and
                    workers) led to frustrations soon turned by pious cranks and clever politicians against the
                    slaveholding leadership which had, in fact, held up federal participation in the rapid exploitation
                    of natural resources. "Thus the halo of democracy and morality … was placed upon
                    the brow of western needs, and its bitterness from unrealized ambitions became a holy
                    sentiment" (p. 35). The Republican party "was one with God and the
                    world's great experiment in Democracy" (p. 42). At the same time the South became
                    self-conscious and bitter also, turned to self-defense, and the Southerner emerged a superior man in
                    a superior civilization. Concrete issues were reduced to abstract principles and conflicts were
                    simplified to the point where men felt more than they reasoned.
            In these essays written at widely separated times and now brought together in a single volume, there
                    was bound to be considerable repetition. Some problems such as the impact of the Negrophobic
                    backlash of that day (the reason for Lincoln's victory over Douglas?) are unresolved and
                    there is no satisfactory picture of the South's efforts to gain and retain the friendship
                    and loyalty of the Northwest. Yet no one will ever again be considered knowledgeable in the period
                    of the Civil War without a solid acquaintance with the research, thinking, and writing of Avery
                    Craven. The sand in which he wrote will not revert to nature after having been arranged so
                    carefully.
            
                    University of 
                            Mississippi
                        
               
                
            James W. Silver
         
         
            
               The Mind of the Old South. By Clement Eaton. ([
                        Baton Rouge
                    ]: 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1964. Pp. xiii, 271. Illustrations, note on sources, index.
                    $6.00.)
            This handsome volume is a fine example of the scholarly and sensitive writing that the history
                    profession has come to expect from the pen of Professor Eaton. In this study of the minds and
                    thinking of southerners of the antebellum period, the author wisely avoided John C. Calhoun and
                    other more famous figures whoso thinking and  opinions are only
                    too well known. Instead, he probed more than a dozen of the less well-known thinkers who he believed
                    represented the various facets of Southern Society.
            Among those included in this study are James H. Hammond of 
                        South Carolina
                    ; Maunsel White, a 
                        New Orleans
                     merchant (the commercial mind); Henry A. Wise of 
                        Virginia
                     (the progressive); Cassius Marcellus 
                        Clay
                     (the radical); Matthew Fontaine Maury, William Barton Rogers, and Joseph Le Conte (the
                    scientific minds); William Gilmore Simms (the romantic mind); William Lowndes Yancey (the voice of
                    emotion); and Hinton Rowan Helper (spokesman for the nonslaveholding class). Also portrayed are even
                    more obscure men and women of the time. Of the major figures studied, all but two owned plantations
                    and only four clearly favored secession in 1860. The author believes that the southern way of
                    agriculture influenced their thinking more than did the issue of slavery.
            This reviewer regrets, as did Professor Eaton, that adequate and heretofore unused source material
                    was not available for a study of the Negro's mind. The author is at his best in his study
                    of Hinton Rowan Helper and of the scientific minds. The latter clearly indicate that the South in
                    the years before the Civil War was not a cultural and educational wasteland.
            All in all, this volume should be of particular interest to students of southern history and to
                    others concerned with an understanding of the Old South. It should be on the list of required
                    readings for courses in southern history.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Powell A. Moore
         
         
            
               The Papers of Henry Clay. Volume 3, Presidential Candidate,
                        1821-1824. Edited by James F. Hopkins and Mary W. M. Hargreaves. (
                        Lexington
                    : University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 1963. Pp. 933. Notes, index. $15.00.)
            The third volume of The Papers of Henry Clay covers the four years in which 
                        Clay
                     made his initial bid for the presidency. During the years 1821-1823 he was out of
                    Congress, though not out of politics since his presidential effort was then launched. Upon his
                    return to Congress late in 1823 
                        Clay
                     was again elected speaker of the House. In the period from 1821 through 1824 
                        Clay
                     was an avowed and persistent advocate of the protective tariff and federal support of
                    internal improvements, issues which had widespread appeal to the West. During this period he served
                    as an attorney for the Second 
                        United States
                     Bank, especially as regards matters in 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    . The bank was a leading, if not his leading, client. This fact, coupled with 
                        Clay
                    's widespread political following in the West, suggests the possibility that
                    various historians have exaggerated the anti-bank feeling of the West during the initial half of the
                    twenties.
            During 1822 and part of 1823 
                        Clay
                     appeared to have had a good chance of winning almost every western state. But in 1823
                    Andrew Jackson's campaign for the presidency took hold. At first, 
                        Clay
                     refused  to take it seriously; then even as it grew
                    he continued to be overconfident of his own success in the West. For instance, he made repeated
                    assertions in 1824 that Indiana was "certain," "firm," or
                    "unshaken," on his behalf (pp. 630, 645, 674-75, 743, 783, 799), yet in the
                    popular vote Jackson was an easy plurality winner over 
                        Clay
                     and Adams. Nevertheless, correspondence between 
                        Clay
                     and Governor William Hendricks offers considerable evidence that Indiana political
                    leaders were much stronger for 
                        Clay
                     or Adams than for Jackson (pp. 517-18, 551-53, 570-71, especially 552).
            The worthwhileness of this series and the quality of its editing to date reflect most favorably on
                    the editors, the University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, and on the Lilly Endowment, Inc. All things considered, it is remarkable how
                    rapidly the three initial volumes have appeared.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               The Zollie Tree. By Raymond E. Myers. (
                        Louisville
                    , Ky.: The Filson Club Press, 1964. Pp. xiii, 200. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    appendixes, bibliography, index. $6.00.)
            In the Preface the author refers to the Battle of 
                        Mill Springs
                    , variously known as the Battle of 
                        Fishing Creek
                    , Logan Cross Roads, 
                        Somerset
                    , or 
                        Beech Grove
                    , as the "first decisive Union victory of the War" which "was
                    soon eclipsed by battles of greater magnitude and its importance, therefore, has never received the
                    recognition to which it is justly entitled." The detailed account of the battle is an
                    obvious attempt to convince the reader that its significance "was infinitely greater than
                    is generally recognized." The case for attaching significance to this particular battle is
                    a strong one for it created the first break in the long Confederate line in 
                        Kentucky
                    , paved the way for invasion of 
                        Tennessee
                    , bolstered northern morale, and enabled Lincoln to keep 
                        Kentucky
                     in Union hands.
            This book is more than a study of a battle. It is a study of the man whose leadership and death
                    affected the outcome of that battle. Perhaps Robert Emmett McDowell, in the Foreword to The Zollie Tree, presents the best summary of General Zollicoffer when he says:
                    "General Zollicoffer was not a military genius. In fact he was a far better politician than
                    he was a general. However, he embodied to a marked degree both the strengths and the tragic flaws in
                    Southern society. He belonged to that colorful romantic period when generals, scorning the hail of
                    shot and shell, mounted their chargers and led their men into battle. And he died in the grand
                    manner at the head of his troops in the confusion of that bloody engagement…".
            The second chapter, "The Noble Son of a Pioneer," which deals with most of
                    Zollicoffer's life prior to the Civil War, gives an interesting account of social and
                    public life in the 1840's and 50's. Zollicoffer's letters to and from his
                    family give the reader an insight into the varied interests and thinking of this man, as well as a
                    good picture of life in 
                        Tennessee
                     and in the nation's capital at that time.
            In some respects The Zollie Tree may appeal more to the genealogist than to the
                    historian, for a great amount of the research and writing  was
                    spent in establishing the Zollicoffer lines before and after General Felix K. Zollicoffer. However,
                    to the extent that the author sheds new light and focuses increased attention upon this relatively
                    unnoticed and little-studied battle of the Civil War, the book will appeal to the historian and to
                    the Civil War buff.
            Although secondary sources were drawn upon for much of the information pertaining to the Battle of 
                        Mill Springs
                    , some new information has been brought forth as a result of the author's use
                    of letters, records, and stories in the hands of private collectors. A clearer picture of the Battle
                    of 
                        Mill Springs
                     and the events leading up to and following the battle is presented by the
                    author's tracing of events step by step in both the text and in Appendix D.
            
               The Zollie Tree should be a welcome addition to any Civil War shelf and will be of
                    particular interest to those who feel that the War really was won in the West.
            
                    Indiana Sesquicentennial Commission
                
            Carl A. Zenor
         
         
            
               Upton and the Army. By Stephen E. Ambrose. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1964. Pp. ix, 190. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical note,
                    index. $5.00.)
            Emory Upton was an interesting and challenging subject for biography. Unusually brave, with much
                    self-discipline and a marked craving for success, Upton graduated from the 
                        United States
                     Military Academy in 1861, fought during the Civil War at 
                        Fredericksburg
                    , Spotsylvania, Cold Harbor, and elsewhere, commanded a division at age 25, observed the
                    armies of Asia and Europe after the war, and served at West Point as Commandant of Cadets. With all
                    these and other duties and travels he found time to complete two books, The Armies of
                        Asia and Europe and Infantry Tactics, and to finish most of another, The Military Policy of the 
                            United States
                        . Upton argued for a mass army, dominated not by civilians but by professional
                    soldiers. The public ignored him. At age 41, after sieges of severe headaches and other physical and
                    mental disturbances, he picked up his.45 Colt pistol and fired a bullet into his head.
            Professor Ambrose had to deal with a number of problems in writing this book: how to explain to
                    laymen Upton's complex and technical proposals for tactical and organizational reforms of
                    the Army; how to appraise objectively, but with sympathy, Upton's highly partisan and
                    sometimes ill-informed views of American military policy; how to assess the importance to American
                    military development of a man who, at the end of his life, considered his work a failure; how to
                    expose to readers the personality of a reserved and formal individual; and how to discuss the
                    reasons for Upton's suicide.
            Most of these problems Ambrose has solved very well. One of them he handled adequately, though with
                    excessive caution. The lucid style of his book, its careful organization, and information he
                    supplies about military developments in Europe and America enable Ambrose to explain clearly
                    Upton's tactical and organizational proposals. With detachment, yet without hostility to
                    his subject, he demonstrates how fatuous some of 
                    Upton's ideas were and says that "Upton was incapable of seeing that he could not
                    merely graft a professional army onto the American system" (p. 122). Ambrose considers the
                    posthumous effects of Upton's tactical, organizational, and public relations work and
                    indicates that the general's most valuable function may well have been to sustain the
                    Army's pride and sense of purpose during its post-Civil War doldrums. Frequently citing
                    firsthand sources, he tells a good deal about Upton's character, pointing out connections
                    between the general's reform proposals and the personal frustrations Upton endured under
                    systems he hoped to change. It is the difficult task of relating Upton's personality and
                    illness to his suicide that Ambrose has not performed to the reviewer's complete
                    satisfaction. Sensibly, he lets contemporaries of Upton try to explain his subject's
                    demise. He might also have presented his own analysis, buttressed by psychiatric and other modern
                    medical opinions.
            A final criticism of this valuable contribution to American military history: typographical errors
                    (pp. 95, 97, 119, 182) and a garbled paragraph (p. 142) suggest that Upton and the
                    Army did not receive all the care in production it deserved.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Ronald Schaffer
         
         
            
               The Higher Learning in 
                            Colorado
                        : An Historical Study, 1860-1940. By Michael McGiffert. (
                        Denver
                    : Allan Swallow, 1964. Pp. xiii, 307. Tables, notes, bibliography, index, end maps.
                    $6.50.)
            After reading this book one has the impression that the history of education in 
                        Colorado
                     was an exercise in patience on the part of the public and on the part of the
                    educational leaders. In spite of the dynamism associated with the West, it took a long time for the
                    colleges and universities in this mountain state to climb to the higher levels of efficiency and
                    effectiveness. The University of 
                        Colorado
                     opened its doors in 1877 but it was not until after World War I that it began to
                    achieve national recognition and another twenty-five years went by before it became a mature
                    institution. The private colleges and technical schools also had a long, tough row to hoe, before
                    they developed firm and lasting foundations. Some of the private schools never made it at all since
                    the mortality rate before 1900 was rather high.
            Professor McGiffert points out that although the 
                        Colorado
                     colleges and universities were not to achieve maturity until after 1945, they had
                    overcome by 1920 many of the obstacles to success that had plagued them for decades. After years of
                    very small enrollments, nearly 7,000 students were attending college in the state and the exodus of 
                        Colorado
                     students to other states had slowed considerably. McGiffert indicates that the growing
                    recognition of 
                        Colorado
                    's institutions was due in part to the educational statesmanship of men like
                    James H. Baker and William Slocum. To achieve stability for their institutions, the university and
                    college presidents had to walk a tightrope between the democratic doctrine of conspicuous public
                    service on the one hand and administrative independence and academic integrity on the other. It is
                         the development of this theme that makes
                    McGiffert's book unique and well worth reading.
            The author stresses the fact that the most distinguishing characteristic of higher education in 
                        Colorado
                     was a devotion to the democratic ideal which often became a democratic dilemma for
                    administration and faculty. According to this theory the public colleges and universities were
                    founded on the principle that they were to serve all the people of the state. Equality of
                    educational opportunity was stressed from the time the cornerstones were laid, and if the
                    institutions did not give the promised services to the commonwealth they were subjected to criticism
                    by the press, the politicians, and the public. But the time was to come when responsible educators
                    realized that the democratic ideal was being exploited for selfish interests and steps were taken to
                    correct the abuses.
            This is a good book, well organized and well written. It is not a complete history of higher
                    education in 
                        Colorado
                    , nor does it pretend to be. It is a historical study of the relationships between
                    colleges and society. While there is a chronological pattern, the treatment is topical and
                    selective. The reader looking for a detailed account of the founding and development of each college
                    in 
                        Colorado
                     will be disappointed.
            The documentation of this study appears to be adequate. In preparing the book the author used a
                    variety of sources including institutional histories, newspapers, administrative records, journals,
                    minutes and reports of faculty groups and boards of control, and bulletins of educational
                    associations on the state and national level. Government documents and the papers of 
                        Colorado
                    's governors proved to be valuable sources, but much of the correspondence of
                    the college and university presidents was unavailable for research purposes. It is conceivable that
                    a collection of these letters might have enriched the detail in Professor McGiffert's book.
            
                    Monmouth College
                
            F. Garvin Davenport
         
         
            
               Prehistoric Man in the New World. Edited by Jesse D. Jennings and Edward
                    Norbeck. Rice University Semicentennial Publications. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, for William Marsh Rice University, 1964. Pp. x, 633. Notes, illustrations, maps,
                    tables, bibliographies, index. $10.00.)
            From time to time general accounts of New World prehistory appear in the archaeological literature.
                    The first was written, prematurely, in the nineteenth century; since, notably in the last twenty
                    years, the remarkable advance of archaeological knowledge has permitted much more complete and
                    meaningful summaries to be compiled. The most recent, and clearly the best to date, is this
                    collection of regional outlines of New World prehistory which consists of lengthier versions of
                    papers presented at Rice University in November, 1962.
            The objective of the symposium and volume—to review and appraise the facts and theories
                    involving the prehistoric peoples and cultures of North and South America in "language any
                    educated reader might  follow"—has been
                    achieved in a series of specialized chapters by eighteen recognized authorities. Twelve areal
                    surveys, each organized chronologically, treat the entire New World in major regions that exhibit
                    basic cultural unity. In addition there are chapters devoted to the period of the earliest
                    occupation of the New World (Early Man), to North and South American relations, to Trans-Pacific
                    contacts and the uses of linguistics in broad reconstructions in archaeology. The Northeast
                    Woodlands area, of which Indiana is a part, is reviewed by James B. Griffin and accurately depicted
                    as one of relatively diverse environments which were the scene of complex sequences of habitations
                    from at least 10,000 B.C. onward.
            American archaeology has experienced revolutionary change in its relatively brief history. From early
                    antiquarianism and unfounded speculation has evolved a scientific discipline based on a great bulk
                    of detail that has become so extensive in the past two or three decades that archaeologists must be
                    topical or, more often, regional specialists. The development of many new investigative techniques,
                    both in field methods and in analytical procedures, and the ever-increasing amount of field work
                    have produced a vast accumulation of data that have led to the formulation and refinement of
                    concepts of culture history. The time has long since passed when one man could claim expert status
                    in more than one, or possibly two, areas of study.
            For this reason the most difficult problem facing the editors was to mold into a coherent volume a
                    series of articles from all sections of the New World without sacrificing major points or
                    intelligibility. The task has been carried out with distinction; credit is due Jennings and Norbeck
                    for their obviously thorough and knowledgeable editing. At the same time, the papers are a
                    testimonial to the fact that American archaeologists can write general prehistory
                    that is substantive yet comprehensible beyond the ranks of professionals. Of course some sections
                    present a more obscure view than others; some are more distilled than others; all necessarily
                    involve a sampling of the complexities of archaeological nomenclature. There are as well, and
                    fittingly, the inevitable variations of interpretion. Still, a surprising degree of uniformity and
                    integration has been achieved which seems the more remarkable in view of major differences in the
                    understanding of regional prehistories across the two American continents.
            The volume is a complete primer of New World archaeology for the literate lay reader who might
                    otherwise become confounded in the abundant literature. The bibliographies accompanying each paper
                    list the most important works accomplished, and a detailed index enhances the utility of the volume
                    as a general reference. It will serve the professional who seeks an outline of events outside of his
                    specialization and will be a welcome overview of prehistory for those who teach and for their
                    students. For years to come it will be cited as the most comprehensive inventory available.
            
                    Smithsonian Institution
                
            
                    Lincoln, 
                            Nebraska
                        
               
                
            Richard B. Johnston
         
         
         
            
               Corn among the Indians of the Upper 
                            Missouri
                        . By George F. Will and George E. Hyde. Reprint. (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1964. Pp. 323. Illustrations, notes, index. Paperbound, $1.60.)
            Early white settlers in the Upper 
                        Missouri
                     Valley made the usual mistake of ignoring what the Indians might have taught them and
                    tried at first to grow the same crop plants that they had known farther south. Finally forced to
                    turn to the hardy varieties of corn adapted to the climate by three centuries of primitive
                    agriculture, they found a key to success. A pioneer in this use of local resources was Oscar H.
                    Will, the father of one of the authors of this book and the founder of a well-known seed company
                    serving the area. The book is a reprint of one which first appeared in 1917. The data are drawn from
                    firsthand observations, from interviews with the last remnants of the Indian priesthood, and from
                    accounts left by early travelers.
            The Indians of the region were a mixture of various tribes, dominated by the Mandans. A strong group
                    early in the eighteenth century, it was soon weakened by tribal wars and repeated scourges of
                    smallpox. A transition from hunting toward agriculture was well under way when the first white
                    explorers arrived. Towns had been built, and the cultivation of corn, beans, squashes, and
                    sunflowers was well established. Hardy varieties of flint, flour, and sweet corn were grown in
                    various colors. The mixed character of most varieties guaranteed that some of the plants were almost
                    sure to survive under adverse conditions, and there was seldom a complete crop failure. It was
                    usually even possible to maintain a small surplus of food from year to year.
            Agricultural processes from planting to harvest were primitive. Metals were unknown, the tools were
                    inefficient, and even the timing of activities was a problem in the absence of any sort of calendar.
                    Most of the farming was done by the women, but it seems to have been regarded as a matter of
                    interest and pride rather than a hardship. The white settlers brought better tools, new uses for
                    corn, new markets, and the use of fertilizers, but they also brought new weeds, new animals as a
                    crop hazard, new diseases, and many other problems. Interesting parallels are seen between the ways
                    in which corn was grown and used in the Upper 
                        Missouri
                     Valley and the corresponding processes in other parts of America with which the Mandans
                    probably had little or no communication. The principal varieties grown in the area are described.
            As usual among Indians, the corn plant was the central object of most religious thought. It was
                    deeply involved in all the creation stories, and an elaborate religious pageantry revolved around
                    it. Much of this mythology is discussed in detail. The documentation is excellent. Because of the
                    lapse of half a century since its first publication, there are doubtless places where minor
                    corrections might be made, but the book will stand as a landmark in the summarization of an
                    important chapter in the history of the Indians. It is commendable that it is being made available
                    to a new generation of readers.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Paul Weatherwax
         
         
         
            Review Notices∗
            
            
               Gentlemen on the Frontier: A Pictorial Record of the Culture of Michilimackinac. By
                    Eugene T. Peterson. (Mackinac Island, Mich.: Mackinac Island State Park Commission, 1964. Pp. 66.
                    Appendix. Paperbound.) In recent years the Mackinac Island State Park Commission, in cooperation
                    with the 
                        Michigan
                     State University Museum, has unearthed 120,000 individual items from the site of Fort
                    Michilimackinac which stood at the straits between Lakes 
                        Michigan
                     and Huron from its erection by the French, about 1715, until its abandonment by the
                    British in 1781. The fort was particularly important in advancing and guarding the fur trade of the
                    upper Great Lakes area for first the French and then the British. This informative and delightful
                    pictorial record, with its apt and well-chosen quotations from contemporary sources, illustrates and
                    describes the life lived by soldiers, local residents, and traders during the eighteenth century.
                    The publication appears to reflect both scholarship and thoughtful editorial work. It indicates in
                    an impressive manner how persistent and systematic digging in a particular spot under proper
                    auspices can be rewarding and informative.
            
               The Western Journals of Dr. George Hunter, 1796-1805. Edited by John Francis
                    McDermott. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : The American Philosophical Society, 1963. Pp. 133. Notes, illustrations, bibliography,
                    index. Paperbound, $3.00.) Here are several journals of trips made by George Hunter to
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     valleys between 1796 and 1805. They offer information regarding early explorations and
                    frontier beginnings in these areas at a time when the government of the 
                        United States
                     was concerned about strengthening its hold on the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley. Two of the journals describe explorations in the lower 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley about the time the 
                        United States
                     acquired 
                        Louisiana
                    . Hunter, a chemist, was not an outstanding figure in the development of the West, but,
                    as McDermott notes, "no adequate account can be written of the opening of the West without
                    studies of such men as he who contributed small but highly important details to the total
                    picture" (p. 18).
            
               Reuben Gold Thwaites and the Progressive Historical Society. By Clifford L. Lord.
                    ([Lansing: Historical Society of 
                        Michigan
                    , 1963.] Pp. 15. Paperbound.) In this Burton Lecture of 1963 for the Historical 
                  
                     ∗ The September issue included a brief review notice of Fettered Freedom: Civil Liberties and the Slavery Controversy, 1830-1860,
                            by Russel B. Nye. In this notice the editor commented, "When is a revision not a
                            revision?" Unfortunately the editor misunderstood certain statements in the
                            publisher's blurb and the author's new preface. He now learns that Fettered Freedom, had undergone considerable revision since its initial
                            publication. This revision has included additions to its bibliography, expansion and
                            modification of its text, and stylistic changes.
               
                     Society of 
                        Michigan
                    , Clifford L. Loyd pays tribute to Reuben Gold Thwaites. Lord properly lauds Thwaites
                    for outstanding achievements as administrator, editor, and collector during his twenty-six years
                    (1887-1913) as superintendent of the State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . He also especially commends Thwaites for encouraging amateur historians and for
                    acquainting citizens in general with the significant values involved in studying and interpreting
                    their local historical heritage. But Lord seems vulnerable when he calls Thwaites the
                    "father" of the present-day "progressive" historical society (p.
                    15). This evaluation claims too much for Thwaites and ignores the work of other outstanding men who
                    have served state historical societies.
            
               Canals of Mid-America. By Leslie C. Swanson. (Moline, Ill.: The Author, 1964. Pp.
                    42. Illustrations. Paperbound, $1.50; Clothbound, $2.50.) This "guide
                    to the old canals of the Midwest" provides a brief, popular, illustrated account. It is
                    quite sketchy and inadequate as an historical narrative, but its pictures are useful to persons
                    seeking evidence of remains of the early canals of mid-America.
            
               Indian Lore. Compiled and written by E. Wendell Lamb and Lawrence W. Shultz.
                        (Winona Lake, Ind.: Light and Life Press, 1964. Pp. 192. Illustrations,
                    index. $3.00.) This is a collection of items which principally concern the Potawatomi and
                    Miami Indians. As the title indicates, much of the material used is based on tradition.
                    Miscellaneous items are presented concerning varied aspects of Indian life. Considerable emphasis is
                    given to place names of Indian origin and other possible contributions of Indians to the American
                    civilization which replaced them.
            
               Atlas of American History. Edited by Edward Whiting Fox. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1964. Pp. 48, xvi. Paperbound, $2.50.) A satisfactory and
                    adequate atlas for use in the study of American history by undergraduates seems almost impossible to
                    compile. This one is attractive, wisely emphasizes physical geography, and fortunately does not
                    attempt to crowd numerous items onto particular maps. Meticulous accuracy in all details is perhaps
                    impossible in constructing maps for atlases, but the map on pages 20-21 of this atlas is quite
                    inaccurate regarding Indiana railroads and canals in the 1840's.
            
               Civil War Maps in the National Archives. (Washington: National Archives, 1964. Pp.
                    ix, 127. Illustrations, index. Paperbound, $.75.) According to the Preface, about eight
                    thousand "maps, charts, and plans" are described in this publication. Although the
                    maps were prepared principally by or for use of the federal government, most of them naturally deal
                    with states or areas within the South. Part I of this volume attempts to give an overall account of
                    the maps and related items; Part II lists and briefly describes particular maps  "selected from" the records described in Part I.
                    Persons interested in particular events, places, developments, or battles connected with the Civil
                    War will find useful leads by consulting the Index—as may be noted by reference to such
                    subjects as 
                        Cumberland Gap
                    , Fort Donelson, 
                        Kentucky
                    , Railroads, 
                        Shiloh
                    .
            
               The Glorious Revolution in America: Documents on the Colonial Crisis of 1689.
                    Edited by Michael G. Hall, Lawrence H. Leder, and Michael G. Kammen. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, for the Institute of Early American History and Culture, 1964. Pp. xv, 216.
                    Maps, suggested readings. Paperbound, $2.50.) This volume offers a collection of
                    documents which are useful in interpreting the impact of the Glorious Revolution of 1688-1689 on
                    events in the American colonies.
         
         
            Survey of Indiana Museum Collections
            The Indiana University Museum, in cooperation with the Indiana Historical Society and the Department
                    of Conservation, has undertaken a survey of publicly and privately owned Indiana museum materials in
                    history and science.
            The results of this project will appear in a publication planned in conjunction with the program of
                    the Indiana Sesquicentennial Commission. It is hoped that this survey will be useful to tourists,
                    visitors, and scholars doing research on the state of Indiana.
            Institutions and individuals maintaining museum collections dealing with historic or scientific
                    aspects of Indiana and surrounding areas are urged to send a general description of their material
                    to Indiana University Museum, 150 Maxwell Hall, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47405.
            The Museum also invites letters from individuals who know of such collections even though not in
                    their possession. The final publication will be sent to all who have contributed to its
                contents.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
