
     ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 1, Issue 4, pages 163-210. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:1+issue:4+year:1905&browseMode=source
    
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                Folk-Speech in 
                        Indiana
                    
                
                BY PAUL L. HAWORTH AND O. G. S.
                [The following, published in The 
                            Indianapolis
                         News for August 15, 1900, is by far the best study we have seen of this
                    interesting subject, and as such we here give it space]
                IN the cities of our State, the schoolmaster, the newspaper and the railroad have long since wrought
                    such changes from the 
                        Indiana
                     of Edward Eggleston, that the English heard in 
                        Indianapolis
                     or 
                        Fort Wayne
                     differs but little from the English of 
                        New York
                     or 
                        Philadelphia
                    . But this can not be said of our rural districts, for there the forces that tend to
                    produce uniformity of speech operate much more slowly.
                Yet even in the country there has really been much change in the language spoken; and, in view of the
                    rapid extension of electric lines, the growth of better schools, and the increased reading of books
                    and newspapers, it is probable that the change will be much more rapid in the future. If the old
                    Hoosier dialect is ever to be studied and the results recorded, the work must be done soon; even now
                    it is almost too late.
                The Hoosier dialect has never been uniform the State over. There have always been local variations,
                    not only in peculiar expressions, but in accent. Occasionally there are slight differences even
                    between adjoining counties.
                Particularly marked is the dissimilarity between the folk-speech of the northern part of the State
                    and that of the southern part. The settlers in the north came mainly from New England, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , 
                        New York
                     and northern 
                        Ohio
                    , and, in consequence, there exists in the north a strong Yankee twang. Those in the
                    southern part came mainly from 
                        Virginia
                    , 
                        Maryland
                    , southern 
                        Ohio
                    , the Carolinas, 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    ; and the dialect shows the Southern influence, containing some points of similarity to
                    the negro and the "poor white" or "cracker" dialect. The 
                    expression "right smart," as in the sentence: "He has a a right smart chance of corn," is an
                    illustration of the dissimilarity. The expression is used generally in central and southern 
                        Indiana
                    , but is rarely met with farther north. It is worth noticing in this connection that
                    while "right," in the sense of "very," is so much used in the South as to be considered by some
                    writers as a Southern provincialism, it is as well descended as most English words. The Psalms have,
                    "I myself will wake right early."
                Not only has folk-speech never been uniform throughout 
                        Indiana
                    , but exact geographical bounds can not be given to the Hoosier dialect. It does not end
                    with State lines, but extends beyond them into 
                        Kentucky
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    , gradually becoming modified and shading off into other dialects. Much the same may be
                    said in regard to the other dialects extending into 
                        Indiana
                    . Doubtless, also, in many States farther west there are colonies of transplanted
                    Hoosiers where the dialect is spoken in almost its original purity; while all over the 
                        United States
                     expressions of Hoosier birth have become domiciled.
                The fact is, it has always been true, and never more so than in these days of rapid communication and
                    shifting population, that in nothing is the student of folk-speech so liable to error as in
                    assigning geographical limits to a word or phrase. Our local dialects, as well as the local English
                    dialects from which we get many of our folk-words and phrases, are pretty thoroughly mixed.
                For example, take the familiar word, "tote," a word which we know did not originate in 
                        Indiana
                    , yet which has become a part of Hoosier dialect nevertheless. Most persons, if
                    questioned as to the origin and range of this word, would doubtless connect it with the negro, and
                    certain it is that the negro—especially the negro in dialect stories—uses the word freely. As a
                    matter of fact, however, the word was in use in 
                        Virginia
                     at least as early as 1677, when there were four times more white bond-servants than
                    there were negroes; there are old, abandoned postage roads in 
                        Maine
                    , where negroes were unknown, that went by the name of "tote roads"; and, furthermore,
                    the word "tote" was a common one in 
                        England
                     during the seventeenth century. The conclusion must therefore be that "tote" is not of
                    African origin, nor is its use confined to localities where negroes are found.
                "Cantankerous" is another word often met with in Hoosier 
                    dialect, but by no means confined to the narrow bounds of our State. Thackeray speaks of a
                    "cantankerous humor." Charles Egbert Craddock (Miss Murfree), in her story, "The Casting Vote," puts
                    into the mouth of the coroner the sentence: "He's ez hard-headed, an' tyrannical, an' perverse, an'
                    cantankerous a critter ez ever lived." Even Chaucer makes use of the word "conteke," from which
                    "cantankerous" is probably derived.
                So wide, indeed, is the geographical distribution of most folk-words and phrases that, while taking
                    the 
                        United States
                     over, one can collect great numbers of colloquialisms, it is extremely difficult to
                    find words or phrases that are confined to a single dialect. The fact is, the mixing process has
                    been so effective that most provincialisms have ceased to be provincial. The writers of this article
                    are compelled to confess, and they take no shame to themselves for so doing, that, in spite of
                    considerable search, they have been unable to find a single provincialism which they would be
                    willing to assert is at present confined to 
                        Indiana
                     alone.
                "Wants out" and "wants in," in such sentences as "the dog wants out," that is, "wants to go out,"
                    have been pointed out as peculiar to our State. Possibly so, but the elision occurs in other
                    phrases, e. g., "they let me in for a nickel," "the hired man wants off," and is so simple and
                    useful that its use is probably wide-spread.
                A native of 
                        Massachusetts
                     once asked one of the writers about the word "ornary," saying he had never heard it out
                    of Hoosierdom. The word, is a simple and natural variation of "ordinary" through the shortened
                    pronunciation of "ord'nary," and its present meaning has become, through successive steps, common,
                    mean, low-down. Its use is by no means confined to 
                        Indiana
                    .
                The word "mosey," frequently heard in such expressions as "He moseyed off down the crick," has the
                    Hoosier stamp, but it is met with elsewhere. The dictionaries which define it are curiously in error
                    as regards its meaning. According to them it means to move off quickly, to get out, to light out, to
                    hustle. But in central 
                        Indiana
                    , at least, it means to saunter along, to walk slowly along, as if with no particular
                    destination in view, and is rarely or never used in the sense given by the dictionaries. Most
                    accounts of its derivation are equally erroneous. One  author
                    tells a story of a defaulting postmaster, named Moses, who left between two days, and he absurdly
                    connects the word with the name and manner of flight. The word possibly comes from the Spanish
                    imperative verb, "vamos," go; i. e., it is a variation of "vamoose," which is so derived, and which
                    has some of the meanings ascribed to "mosey."
                Probably some, if not all, of the following words and phrases are more frequently used in 
                        Indiana
                     than elsewhere: "Heap-sight," as in "more ground by a heap-sight,"; "juberous," as in
                    "I felt mighty juberous about crossin' the river"; "jamboree," in the sense of a "big time";
                    "flabbergasted," i. e., exhausted; "gargly," i. e., awkward; "I mind that," for "I remember that";
                    "bumfoozled," i. e., "rattled"; "whang-doodle," as in "Are you going to the whang-doodle tonight"?
                But the individuality of a dialect is, in fact, far more a result of accent or of pronunciation than
                    of the possession of expressions peculiar to itself. As has just been pointed out, 
                        Indiana
                     has but few provincialisms that are peculiarly her own. But where else than in 
                        Indiana
                     would one hear the long-drawn flatness of the "a" in such words as "sassers," "saft,"
                    "pasnips," etc.? Or where else would one hear such a sentence as "I swum straight acrost the crick,
                    an' kep' a-goin' right ahead through the paster, an' clim plum to the top of yan ridge over yander,
                    an' wuz considerable tired-like comin' down t'other side, but at last got to that air road,"
                    pronounced as a citizen of "Hoopole kyounty, Injeanny," would have pronounced it forty years ago.
                Perhaps the most marked characteristic of incorrect as compared with correct speech consists in the
                    abbreviation or contortion of words. In 
                        Indiana
                     it is common to hear "fur" used for far, "furder" for further, "kin" for can, "quare"
                    for queer, "purty" for pretty, "drap" for drop, "seed" for saw, "kinder" for kind of, "sheer" for
                    share, "tuck" for took, "sumpin" for something, "ole" for old, "biler" for boiler, "shan't" for
                    shall not, "ain't" for am not, etc., "kittle" for kettle, "h'isted" for hoisted, "j'int" for joint,
                    "ruinated" for ruined, etc.
                It is worth noticing, however, that some abbreviations once looked on as in bad form are rapidly
                    gaining in favor. "Isn't," "doesn't," "didn't," "I'll", "he'll," "don't," "won't" and some other
                    such words are now generally regarded as permissible in 
                    conversation and informal writing. "Ain't," "shan't," etc., are still considered bad.
                Notwithstanding the admonitions of the grammer-makers, our people in large majority insist on using
                    "lay" instead of lie. More than this, the word can be found so used by good writers. As a very
                    recent example, let me quote from Bret Harte's "A Jack and Jill of the Sierras" (McClure's for July,
                    1900): "Then every man laid down again, as if trying to erase himself." Chaucer uses it in the
                    prologue. Robert Louis Stevenson more than once uses "eat" (pronunciation et) instead of ate.
                    Addison says "I lit my pipe with paper." "It's me," or "it is me," is coming to be universally used
                    instead of "it is I," and the usage is sanctioned by such an authority as Barrett Wendell, of
                    Harvard. The truth is, easy and convenient expressions, despite grammatical rules and the ravings of
                    purists, are like Banquo's ghost; they will not down.
                Most persons have heard their illiterate neighbors use such seeming contortions as "becaise"
                    (because), "j'ine" (join), "bile" (boil), "seed" (saw), "deaf" (like leaf), "jist" or "jest" (just),
                    "shet" (shut), "chaw" (chew) and "techy" (touchy). At first blush these seem hopelessly bad, yet in
                    reality they are but the older forms of the equivalent words now in use. Pepys quotes a letter
                    written by the Earl of Leicester, Elizabeth's favorite, concerning the sudden death of Amy Robsart,
                    in which the form "becaise" occurs. Johnson says in his dictionary: "Bile; this is generally spelt
                    boil, but, I think, less properly." Pope and Dryden rhyme "join" with "line," or some such word:
                        
                        "'Tis not enough taste, judgment, learning join; In all you speak let truth and candour
                            shine."
                    
                
                In fact, "jine" was at one time considered the best pronunciation. Shakespeare uses "tetchy" three
                    times. "Kiver," "deaf" and "chaw" are good old English words. Concerning the last, Schele de Vere
                    quotes the following from a private letter:
                "The late eloquent Watkins Leigh was asked by a friend what he thought of James Buchanan (the
                    President), and answered that he had one serious objection to him, and when pressed to name it, said
                    that once, when he and Mr. Buchanan were sitting together in the United States Senate, the latter
                         asked him for a chew of tobacco instead of a chaw."
                    Evidently Mr. Buchanan "put on a little too much dog" to suit his confrere. The use of chewing-gum
                    threatens to make chew the universal term, though the old form still prevails among those who now
                    and then take a "chaw of tobacco."
                Numerous other expressions have a better justification than most people would guess. The Bible gives
                    us "with the skin of my teeth," Job, XVIII, 20; "clean gone," Psalms, 77, 8; a "howling wilderness,"
                    Deuteronomy 32, 10. "Gumption" and "hustle" are both of ancient use. Shakespeare speaks of a "deck
                    of cards," and uses "fire" in the sense of to thrust out. Gower uses "to let slide"; Ben Jonson, "to
                    swop," and "bulldoze" occurs in Scott. The "them" in such expressions as "them books" is a survival
                    from the old dative plural, "thaem bocum." Fielding uses "limb" for "leg."
                A frequent source of error is the use of a good word in a wrong sense. Judged by the standard of the
                    Queen's English, "mad," "scholar" and "fix" are words often misused in 
                        Indiana
                    . Very often we hear a person utter such an expression as "I was mad at him." If the
                    speaker means to say that he was so enraged as to be well-nigh insane, "mad" is the word to use; but
                    if the feeling was of a milder sort, he should say, "I was angry at him." It should be observed,
                    however, that "mad" in the sense of angry occurs in the Bible and elsewhere. "Scholar" is by many
                    people used interchangeably with student or pupil, but, strictly speaking, while all scholars are
                    students and some are pupils, the vast majority of students and pupils are not scholars. Scholar is
                    more properly used to designate a person of high intellectual attainments. "The teacher sent all the
                    scholars home" is incorrect. "To fix," which means to fasten or make permanent, is often misused in
                    the sense of to mend or repair, as in the sentence, "I have just fixed the fence"—i. e., "I have
                    just repaired the fence." "Smart," in the sense of intellectual, e.g., "He's a real smart boy";
                    "clever," in the sense of good-natured or kindly, e. g., "He's been mighty clever to me," and
                    "mean," in the sense of bad or wicked, e. g., "He's awfully mean to her," are also colloquialisms
                    frequently heard in 
                        Indiana
                    .
                Persons who have lived in the rural districts of the State will 
                    recognize the following very common expressions: "All-git-out," as in "It's a-rainin' to beat
                    all-git-out"; "passel," as in "They're jist a passel of fools"; "hump your stumps," as in "Hump your
                    stumps, old woman, and git me up a snack"; "galluses," for suspenders; "fixins," as in "pie, an'
                    cake, an' chicken, an' sich fixin's" (said to be common in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ); "mitten," to give the "sack" or the "hooks."; "sculdugery," i e., trickery; "piece of
                    calico," i. e., a woman; "finicky," i. e., finical; "slather," as in "He just slathers away and says
                    anything"; "shenanigan," to cheat; "thing-a-majig," as in "What kind of a thing-a-majig have you got
                    there?"
                "Socdolager," an expression frequently heard in some localities, is said to be connected in its
                    derivation with doxology. The doxology comes near the end of a "meeting," and when a man or a boy
                    gives another a "socdolager" (the similarity in sound must be apparent), the end of the fight is at
                    hand.
                A student of Indiana folk-speech meets with many striking and forcible expressions. "He's rich, he
                    has heaps of money," is used by persons in some rural districts to convey the idea of wealth. Others
                    substitute "sights" or "gobs" for "heaps." Yet others use a ranker word still: "He's rich, he jist
                    has gaums of money," as though the gold were smeared over the person of the fortunate possessor.
                "Between you and me and the gatepost" is a formula used in impressing the necessity of secrecy. "When
                    he gits a dollar it's got home," is an admirable description of a stingy man. "I'll sure git there
                    or bust a biler" is a forcible expression, to say the least. An old woman from the hills of 
                        Brown county
                     once expressively described to one of the writers the feelings experienced after a
                    night spent in dancing by saying: "When I'uz goin' home in the mornin,' both sides of the road ‘u'd
                    belong to me."
                An examination of some of the folk-words and phrases that have been current in 
                        Indiana
                     will reveal many things of historical interest. Think, for example, of the testimony on
                    former economic conditions contained in the expression "sharp bit." In the early days there was but
                    little or no small change in the country, nor was it convenient for traders coming from 
                        New Orleans
                     and elsewhere to bring with them any other than the  larger coins. In order to make smaller change, the settlers cut these coins into pieces, and
                    these pieces were known as "sharp bits." The demand for words and expressions to relieve overwrought
                    feeling seems to be felt by all humanity—Hoosier humanity as well as otherwise.
                The blood of the Hoosier is less easily heated than that of his neighbor across the Ohio. Yet, if one is to judge from the number of
                    swear words and exclamations in use in our State, it would seem that even we occasionally feel their
                    need. Of the following list of exclamatory expressions, all are considered in good form on certain
                    occasions, at least, in some parts of the State: "Jerusalem crickets," "shucks," "by jing," "by
                    cracky," "dinged if I don't," "jeeminy-criminny-whiz," "gosh danged," "gosh a'mighty," "I swan,"
                    "gee whiz," "gee whilliken," (formed on Jerusalem), "by gravy," "by grab," "dad zooks," "dad burn,"
                    "by gum," "great scott," "all-fired," "I'll be dogon'd," or "dagon'd" (Barrie uses a similar form,
                    "dagont" in "Sentimental Tommy"), "for the land's sakes," "my goodness," "oh, my," "the dickens,"
                    "laws-a-mercy," "plague take it," "oh, foot," "oh, sugar." Many of these phrases, apparently
                    inoffensive, in reality mean much more than may appear at first glance. Possibly the woman who said
                    that the three authors she was accustomed to remember when she got her finger against the stove
                    were, "Dickens, Howitt, Burns" was not aware that "dickens" means little devil (it is a contraction
                    of the old diminutive devilkins). Change the r in darn to m and you have the original of this word.
                    "Dinged if I don't" means "damned if I don't," while "gosh danged," "gosh a'mighty," etc., are
                    stronger still. And so it goes.
                A few words concerning writers of 
                        Indiana
                     dialect will perhaps not be out of place here. Of all these the two greatest are, of
                    course, Edward Eggleston and James Whitcomb Riley—Eggleston in prose and Riley in verse. Of the two,
                    Eggleston is more distinctively Hoosier than Riley. As most persons are aware, the dialect in
                    Riley's poems is "doctored" somewhat to meet the exigencies of meter and rhythm; he occasionally
                    manufactures a phrase to slip off the tongue easily. Some harsh criticisms have been made of Riley
                    on this score, but, we think, entirely without justification—certainly with none if there be such a
                         thing as poetic license, or if success justifies means.
                Eggleston, to the other hand—despite some serious defects in his literary style—reproduces with
                    remarkable fidelity the real Hoosier dialect of the southern part of the State. Of course, it may
                    occasionally occur to some of his readers that the talk of such characters as Mrs. Means, or of the
                    Rev. Mr. Bosaw, the hardshell Baptist, in "The Hoosier Schoolmaster," is overdrawn, but any one that
                    is acquainted with even the Mrs. Meanses and the Bosaws of to-day knows that in this respect he
                    "underdraws" rather than overdraws. Eggleston does, however, overdraw some of his characters. In
                    most cases he is moderately skilful in his use of the various methods by which a speaker may be made
                    by the language he uses to betray his own character or to reveal that of another. Every one that has
                    read "The Hoosier Schoolmaster" must have felt the effectiveness of the iteration and reiteration of
                    "no lickin', no larnin', says I," by Pete Jones, and of "we're all selfish akordin' to my tell" and
                    "to be sure" by the basket maker, who "fit" the British at Lundy's lane. But, on the other hand,
                    some have felt that an excessive use of such methods has often resulted in a caricature rather than
                    a character.
                From the title one would naturally expect that the author of "The Gentleman From 
                        Indiana
                    " was a writer of Hoosier dialect. As a matter of fact, Tarkington is not to be so
                    classed. "The Gentleman From 
                        Indiana
                    ," in the first place, is not a dialect story; and further, so far as the individuality
                    of the dialect it does contain is concerned, the scene of the story might just as well have been
                    laid in 
                        Illinois
                    , or 
                        Ohio
                    , or even 
                        Kansas
                    . The book has numerous excellent qualities, but they are not such as come from a
                    skilful use of dialect. Certainly if the author possesses a tithe of the knowledge of folk-speech
                    possessed by Riley or Eggleston, he has not displayed it. To a genuine Hoosier, "The Gentleman From 
                        Indiana
                    " is unreal. Such an one much prefers the author's less labored and really delightful
                    story, "Monsieur Beaucaire."
                Before closing, we quote the substance of some very pertinent remarks bearing on the subject of
                    Hoosier dialect in literature, recently made to one of the writers by Dr. Weatherly, of the State
                    University. "A few months ago," said he, "I met a  typical
                    Hoosier in 
                        New York city
                    . He was perfectly natural, perfectly individual; but you will not find him in any of
                    the books, for, the truth is, no one has yet succeeded in getting a real, live Hoosier into a book.
                    Eggleston has given us his talk, and Riley has occasionally given us some delightful and promising
                    mirror-like glimpses, but neither has quite succeeded. If we look long enough, we see that the man
                    himself is not there. A certain indefinable something is wanting."
                Doubtless many persons have had much the same feeling. Some moderately good Hoosier dialect stories
                    there undoubtedly are, but the characters in them have too often been either caricatures or else
                    mere automatons.
                [Berry Sulgrove, speaking with authority on this subject (see History of 
                            Indianapolis
                         and 
                            Marion County
                        
                    , p. 89), credits the young poet Riley (this was more than twenty years ago) with presenting
                    the old patois "more fairly than any other delineator", but speaks of a distinguishing raciness and
                    quaintness, with a tone and turn of humor similar to that of the Lowland Scotch dialect, that had
                    measureably disappeared before Mr. Riley's day. Among other expressions he cites "stobbed" for
                    stabbed. "daunsy" for stupid, and "hone," to long for, still retained in our slang. Another word
                    once in vogue but now wholly forgotten, and not given by the above writers, was "gostrate." To
                    gostrate, as nearly as we can learn, was to talk windily and superfluously, as, for example, a
                    certain type of orator does. This style of talking not being yet obsolete, and no term in the
                    received vocabulary quite fitting it, "gostrate" should have been preserved.
                It should be noted that the so-called "Hoosier dialect," especially at the present day, is more or
                    less in the imagination of writers who are seeking the picturesque. In a word, something more than
                    15,000 school teachers at work in 10,000 schools, and nearly a thousand local newspapers that reach
                    almost every home, along with numerous other educational forces, such as institutes, societies and
                    many kinds of meetings, have very decidedly modified speech as well as general intelligence.
                    Furthermore, what passes as Hoosier speech is not only the rural language elsewhere, but it by no
                    means has the distinctiveness and fixity of the Yankee or Southern speech. For example, a Yankee,
                    particularly of the rural type, may be known anywhere and always, by his cyow or hyouse for cow or
                    house; the Southerner by his antipathy to the letter r, but the Hoosier can not be identified by any
                    such peculiarity—Ed.]
            
            
            
                Reminiscences of James Shoemaker
                [The following reminiscences were contained in a manuscript left by James Shoemaker, of 
                        Putnam county
                    , now dead some years. In a somewhat altered form it was published in The
                        Indiana Farmer, Dec. 10, 1898.]
                MY parents, Evan and Eve Shoemaker, moved from East 
                        Tennessee
                     about the year 1809, and settled in 
                        Salisbury
                    , a small village midway between where 
                        Centerville
                     and 
                        Richmond
                     now are, in 
                        Wayne county
                    . There I was born July 30, 1812. My parents remained in the vicinity of Salisbury until
                    after the ratification of peace between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Great Britain
                     in 1815. In the fall of 1816 my father, in company with three or four other pioneer
                    famalies, settled in what is now 
                        Randoph county
                    . They pitched their tents in an almost impenetrable wilderness, surrounded by wild
                    beasts and savage Indians. The nearest white man's cabin on the north was 60 or 70 miles (at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ); the nearest settlement on the east was 15 or 20 miles. All west belonged to the
                    Indians.
                Our pioneer fathers had all their provisions (except meat) to procure in the old settlement, until
                    they could raise the same at home, and that could not be done until they cleared, fenced and
                    cultivated their ground. The roads over which they had to convey their provisions I will not
                    describe, for they had none. The west line of my father's land was the dividing line between the old
                    and the new purchase. Here (in the new purchase) the Indians were the bonafide owners of the soil,
                    not having as yet ceded their lands to the 
                        United States
                    . Notwithstanding the Indians professed friendship and came daily either to beg or
                    exchange baskets, moccasins, leggings or different kinds of embroidery for salt, meat, tobacco,
                    meal, flour, or anything you had to dispose of, yet they viewed each white person with jealousy and
                    wished for an opportunity to do an injury. I recollect one day an Indian chief came to my father's
                    house in his absence. He wanted some milk and butter. He had a deer skin keg to put his milk in.
                    After getting his milk, he wanted a saucer to carry his butter in. Mother refused to let him have
                    the saucer, whereupon he became very angry, brandished his tomahawk and swore he wished it would be
                    war again, so that he could get to scalp my mother and a man named Jordan.
                
                At that time (1816) the Indians had a stake or post, around which they burned their prisoners, in the
                    adjoining county of 
                        Delaware
                    . It was then near where 
                        Muncie
                     now is. I saw this post in 1833. It was considerably burned and charred for several
                    feet above the ground, and a rise or mound of 18 or 20 inches around the post was overgrown with
                    blue grass. It was then a standing monument of savage cruelty.*
                
                When I was a lad six or seven years old I would go to the Indian camps and play with the young
                    Indians. Sometimes I would find them at their favorite sport—shooting with bows and arrows. At other
                    times there would be a score or more young Indians lying in their camps, or in the shady grove, in a
                    state of perfect nudity. In the morning the adult Indians would take guns, tomahawks and butcher
                    knives, the younger class their bows and arrows, and start in pursuit of game, leaving the old
                    squaws to perform the drudgery of the camp. They always went armed. From noon until dark the hunters
                    would keep strolling in; one with a deer lashed on his back, another with a turkey, a third with a
                    ham or shoulder of meat, or hog with the hair on, and still another with a raccoon, oppossum,
                    porcupine, ground-hog, etc.
                The Indian men, women, and children, and the dogs would occupy the same tent. The dogs generally
                    slept on the meal sacks as they made them a nice soft bed. I have seen them bake their bread in this
                    manner. They would first burn a brush pile, then rake off the coals and ashes, then roll out their
                    dough, lay it down on the hot ground and cover it up with hot embers and coals, and it would soon
                    bake, and the dog hairs would keep it from crumbling or falling to pieces.
                If I were to tell you how annoying the horseflies and mosquitoes were in the summer and fall seasons,
                    you would not believe me, therefore I will not tell you. Wild animals such as the bear, panther,
                    wolf, catamount and wild cat were numerous and annoying. The settlers had to pen their hogs and
                    sheep in their door yards around their cabins every night, and even then the wolves and wild cats
                    would often carry off the pigs and lambs, and even young calves, notwithstanding each settler was
                    provided with a good rifle and from one to three dogs. The cows were belled and turned out to range,
                    the horses were belled and hobbled 
                        
                            *See article on Torture Stake in 
                                Delaware County
                            .
                    
                     Each settler could identify the peculiar tinkle of his bells
                    among 20 others. In the spring of the year we had different kinds of tea—tolbit, spicewood,
                    sassafras, and the chips of the sycamore, all which made excellent tea for the spring of the year.
                    While home-made sugar lasted, store tea, sugar and coffee were not in common use. From 1815 to 1823
                    there was many a young housewife who could spin, weave, cut out, and make her husband a decent suit
                    of clothes that did not know how to make a cup of store tea or coffee. * * * * When I was a boy six
                    or seven years old I heard my uncle say that after dancing with a large Dutch girl the night before,
                    he took a seat on a three legged stool and invited her to take a seat on his knee. She did so. He
                    gently laid his arm around her shoulder, when she turned her head and looked him full in the face.
                    Half affrighted and half delighted she said: "You hug mine mamma; she is bigger as I." I will now
                    give another instance where the lady thought she was big enough, but the change was lacking. One
                    morning Esq. Jones saw a young gent ride up with a young lady behind him. They dismounted; he
                    hitched his horse and they made for the house and were invited to be seated. After waiting a few
                    minutes the young man asked if he was the ‘squire. He informed him that he was. He then asked the
                    ‘squire what he charged for tieing the knot. "You mean for marrying you?" "Yes sir." "One dollar,"
                    says the ‘squire. "Will you take it in trade?" "What kind of trade?" "Beeswax." "Bring it in." The
                    young man went to where the horse was tied and brought in the beeswax, but it lacked 40 cents of
                    being enough to pay the bill. After sitting pensive for some minutes the young man went to the door
                    and said, "Well, Sal, let's be going." Sal slowly followed to the door, when turning to the justice,
                    with an entreating look, she said: "Well ‘Squire, can't you tie the knot as far as the beeswax goes
                    anyhow," and so he did, and they were married
                I moved to 
                        Putnam county
                     October 25, 1839. At that time Floyd township was as thickly settled, except in
                    Groveland, as at present. There were then (1839) 240 taxpayers; now there are 262 in the township. *
                    * * * When we commenced growing wheat it was sown in the corn among the standing trees  and stumps. It was cut with a reap hook and either threshed out with
                    flails or tramped out in the field on the ground with horses. In either case there was always dirt
                    or gravel enough left in the wheat to sharpen your teeth, if not your appetite. When the wheat was
                    threshed it was winnowed with a sheet, taken to a water mill on horse back, ground on a corn
                    cracker, bolted by hand and taken home to be baked in a skillet for breakfast on Sundays. In the
                    fall season we took our wheat to 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , where we got good flour. From 1837 to 1842 or '43 times were extremely hard.
                    Everything we had to buy, except sugar and coffee, were very high. For our surplus produce we had
                    almost no market. In 1839 and '40, prior to the completion of the Wabash and Erie canal, we hauled our wheat to different
                    points on the Ohio river, where we received
                    from 38 to 40 cents per bushel. In 1841 I hauled a load of wheat (25 bushels) to 
                        Hamilton
                    , 
                        O.
                    , from Floyd township, 
                        Putnam county
                    , a distance of about 150 miles, for which I received 38 cents per bushel. In the fall
                    of 1839 Capt. John Roberts of Jackson township, Maj. Ash of 
                        Greencastle
                    , and John Allen of Floyd township, bought and packed hogs for which they paid $1.25 per
                    cwt. gross. They sold their bacon in 
                        New Orleans
                     for $1.50 per cwt. Roberts and Ash broke up. Allen said he saved himself but lost his
                    money.
            
            
                Indian Torture Post in 
                        Delaware County
                    
                
                THE allusion in the foregoing reminiscences to the old Indian torture stake that stood within the
                    present bounds of 
                        Delaware county
                     is one of the few testimonies to the existence of that barbarous relic. Of the various
                    local histories and books of reminiscence only one, as far as we know, makes mention of it. This is
                    the Rev. W. C. Smith's 
                            Indiana
                         Miscellanies. Mr. Smith describes the stake as of oak, about ten feet high,
                    with the rough outline of a human face cut on either side. The fires, according to this writer, had
                    been kindled in a circle around the stake at a distance of some five or six feet. When he saw it the
                    ashes formed a perceptible ridge, and an outer circle, where the Indians had danced, was packed so
                    hard that nothing would grow there.
                
                By inquiring through the columns of the 
                            Indiana
                         Farmer, the present writer elicited three communications that contained
                    considerable interesting information touching the all but forgotten tradition of the old torture
                    post, and these we reproduce in the order in which they appeared in the Farmer.
                
                MR. CARTWRIGHT.
                At the suggestion of friend George S. Cottman, of 
                        Irvington
                    , I would with your permission add my testimony in regard to that old Indian stake in 
                        Delaware county
                    . Sometime in the summer of 1841 or '42 father, mother and myself visited relatives then
                    living in 
                        Yorktown
                    , a small village about five or six miles west of 
                        Muncie
                    . On our return home, then in 
                        Union county
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , we were accompanied by Israel Shoemaker, brother of the late James Shoemaker before
                    referred to, who was well acquainted in the vicinity, and when about half way from 
                        Yorktown
                     to 
                        Muncie
                     he pointed out to us the historic place now under consideration. The surrounding
                    grounds were to some extent grown up with timber and underbrush, leaving a space of some 25 or 30
                    feet in diameter destitute of any growth except a little grass. The stake or post had been about
                    seven or eight feet high and about 16 or 18 inches in diameter, but had rotted off at the top of the
                    ground and fallen down. A much used path led from the road to the post. There is no betrayal of
                    memory in the above statement. Although many are the years that have come and gone, my recollection
                    of the scene is as vivid as those of yesterday. As to how late this post was used I am unable to
                    state.
                ISAAC CARTWRIGHT. 
                            Fillmore
                        , 
                            Ind.
                        
                
                MR. EDDY.
                At your request for information about the old 
                        Indiana
                     torture stake in 
                        Delaware county
                    , I will give you and your readers the facts as I saw them in the year 1842. In the fall
                    of that year, in company with my father and uncle, I journeyed to 
                        Delaware county
                     from 
                        Fayette county
                    . As we arrived within three or four miles south from 
                        Muncie
                     my father asked me if I wished to take a look at the torture stake where the Indians
                    used to torture their prisoners. As I was anxious to do so we left the team in care of my uncle and
                    walked a short distance south from the main road through a beautiful grove of wild plum trees and
                    underbrush. No doubt this was the same path that friend Isaac Cartwright speaks of. We found the
                    circle with a carpet of fine blue grass growing over the ground. The post was lying on the ground in
                    the center of the circle on a heap of fine coals. The post I should suppose had been about eight
                    feet high from the ground. About  five or six feet from the
                    ground there was a portion of the post cut out or rounded out, as my father explained to me at the
                    time, for the purpose of fitting the prisoner's head in at the time of torture; as the Indians bound
                    their prisoners fast to the stake at all times of burning.
                A few years after this date I saw an old black and charred stake in the court house at 
                        Muncie
                    , and was informed that it was the same torture stake that I saw in the circle south of 
                        Muncie
                    . No doubt some pioneer of 
                        Delaware
                     can give you a more full explanation of it than your humble servant.
                GEO. W. EDDY. 
                        
                            Columbia
                        , 
                            Ind.
                        
                
                MR. CECIL.
                Mr. Chas. Fullhart handed me a copy of the 
                            Indiana
                         Farmer of February 4, 1899, and cited me to an article written by Mr. Isaac
                    Cartwright, concerning the location of the old Indian torture stake, and requested me to correct
                    some mistakes in the article, as I am the owner, for more than fifty years, of the land on which the
                    historic stake stood, three miles south-east of the city of 
                        Muncie
                     in Center Township, 
                        Delaware county
                    , 
                        Indiana
                    , on the old 
                        Richmond
                     and 
                        Logansport
                     State road. I first saw the stake in 1832. It was then standing, but somewhat inclined
                    to the south-east. It was some charred by the burning of the fagots. It stood near the center of the
                    Indian village named Munsey, after the Indian chief. The place is now called Old Muncie or Old Town
                    Hill. Soon after the tragedy, the Indians vacated the place and and settled on the site where 
                        Muncie
                     now stands, and called it New 
                        Muncie
                    . The stake was eight or ten inches in diameter, and during the campaign of 1840 of
                    William Henry Harrison for the Presidency, the Whig party took the stake away and sent parts of it
                    to every State in the Union as a token of respect to him as an Indian fighter. The stake or post
                    fell to the ground about 1836 or 1838. It stood fifty feet south of the road and a well-beaten path
                    led each way to the post through the dense undergrowth that had grown up after the evacuation of the
                    village. About two acres had been entirely cleared off. I first plowed the ground in 1861 and could
                    tell where every hut had stood by the ground being burned. The huts had been built in a circle with
                    the Council House in the center near where the post stood. The village stood on an elevation of 100
                    feet above White river with a deep gully on the
                    south-west, and sloping gently to the south eighty rods to a creek called Juber, after an Indian
                    chief. Beyond this creek forty rods stood an Indian trading post. Around this, several acres had
                    been cleared and cultivated in corn. What I have written is 
                    from my own observation.
                I will write a few lines from tradition. The most certain account of the burning at the stake I got
                    from my mother. She lived in 
                        Kentucky
                    , near 
                        Lexington
                    . The three men all lived where she was raised. I have forgotten the names of the two
                    who escaped. The one that was burned was Smith. They were a scouting party from Gen. Wayne's
                    command. The Indians captured them near where 
                        Hagerstown
                     now stands and brought them here, and held a council of war over them and decided to
                    burn Smith in the presence of the other two, for some crime they had done. They were accused of
                    killing a squaw and wounding another. Smith was tied to the post and the fagots placed around him.
                    The other two men were tied near by with raw hide strings. Just at that time there came up a most
                    terrific rain and thunder storm. It was then night and the Indians repaired to their huts. The raw
                    hide strings became so wet that they stretched till the other two men got loose, but the lightning
                    betrayed them before they had time to loosen Smith. The Indians gave chase, following them by the
                    lightning flashes to the creek above mentioned where they leaped over a large tree that had fallen
                    and escaped in the darkness. The Indians abandoned the chase. The men were nine days in reaching
                    their home in 
                        Kentucky
                    . They lived on roots and whatever game they could catch in the unbroken forests. This
                    traditional narrative is closely corroborated by an Indian by the name of Jake, of the Musco tribe.
                    His wife, Sally, and his son, James Musco, not being friendly with the other tribes, remained here
                    with the first white settlers in April, 1820. The old folks soon died and James lived and worked
                    among the Whites many years in this neighborhood. He was quite old when he died, and I had the honor
                    to help inter him in the Rees cemetery.
                SAMUEL CECIL. 
                        
                            Muncie
                        , 
                            Ind.
                        
                
                [After the appearance of these communications we received from Miss Florence Cowing, of 
                        Muncie
                    , some notes gleaned from various pioneers of the locality. Mr. Cecil, she said,
                    possessed many relics found on the site of "Oldtown," among them being silver brooches and rings, an
                    iron tomahawk with "
                        Montreal
                    , 
                        Canada
                    " marked on it, and a large iron kettle that was found beneath the stump of a mulberry
                    tree. The roots had forced the bottom out of the kettle but the side remained intact, with a coating
                    of grease upon it. The village the whites called Oldtown was, she gathered, called Ontainink by the
                    Indian residents. These were a branch of the Delaware tribe known as the Munseys or Munsees. The
                    name is said to have been derived from Minsi, an Indian word meaning wolf. A chief called Munsey or
                    Montse was also remembered by some of Miss Cowing's reminiscents. If there was such a chief it may
                    be considered as probable that the band got its name from him. For the burning of three Indians by
                    this band in 1806 see Dillon, p. 425.—Ed..]
            
            
            
                Historic Houses and Personages of 
                        Centerville
                    
                
                BY MRS. HELEN V. AUSTIN
                
                (From papers of the 
                            Wayne County
                         Historical Society)
                WHITEWATER COLLEGE.
                THE history of Whitewater College, founded by the Methodist Episcopal church in 1853, might fill a
                    volume, but it can only be given mere mention here. It was a great school, and many prominent men
                    were teachers here, among them Dr. Cyrus Nutt, George B. Joslyn, Dr. Edwards, H. N. Barnes and Prof.
                    A. C. Shortridge.
                Previous to the establishment of the college, a county seminary occupied the ground. In 1827 the west
                    wing was built and in 1842, when more room was needed, an east wing was added. The two buildings
                    were connected by a covered passage way. Afterwards, when the college took the place of the
                    seminary, the central part of the college occupied the passage way, with the former seminary
                    buildings as west and east wings. Rev. Samuel K. Houshour taught in the old seminary in the west
                    wing. Among the teachers in the east wing, were Miss Mary Thorp, Miss Sarah Dickenson and Rawson
                    Vaile. Among the pupils of after fame was Lew Wallace, and there are those who remember how the
                    future soldier, diplomat and author was once roundly flogged by Mr. Hoshour. After the decline of
                    the college, the building was sold, in 1870, to the school trustees and became the public school
                    building. It was destroyed by fire in 1891 and was succeeded by the present fine public school
                    house. At the foot of Main Cross Street stands the ruins of a brick school house where many of the
                    older citizens received a part of their education.
                CHURCHES.
                The first church organization here was the Methodist Episcopal. When the county seat was pulled up by
                    the roots at 
                        Salisbury
                     and transplanted at 
                        Centerville
                    , the Methodist church came with it. There had been no church building at 
                        Salisbury
                    , the congregation having met in the court house, and prior to the building of a meeting
                    house here the congregation met at the houses of members.
                
                In 1828 a frame church was built. It was situated east of where the Christian church now stands and
                    fronted on the east. Mr. N. Parrott's stable now occupies the spot where the church stood. There was
                    a street north of the county buildings, where there is now an alley, which led to the church from
                    the west. The parsonage was on the church grounds, west of the church, and stood there after the
                    church was torn away. It was moved to Walnut street and is now the home of Mr. Dearth. In 1834 the
                    conference, then comprising the entire State, was held in this church, the venerable Bishop Roberts
                    presiding. In the year 1842 the present brick church was completed. It was at that time not only the
                    finest Methodist church in the State, but the finest one in the State belonging to any church
                    organization. Upon the completion of the new church in 1842 conference was again held here. Bishop
                    Simpson dedicated the church and presided at the conference. In 1882 the building underwent repairs
                    and was re-dedicated by the Rev. A. Marine.
                It must be remembered that although the Friends were not the first to form a society in the town,
                    they were the first religious society in the the township and organized the West Grove meeting in
                    1813, three miles north west of 
                        Centerville
                    , and built a log meeting house. Thus the leaven of the old church at West Grove, has
                    been leavening ever since.
                The Cumberland Presbyterian church was organized in 1842, Rev. LeRoy Woods, officiating. Mr. Woods
                    was the pastor for several years and was succeeded by Elam McCord. A Sunday-school was organized in
                    connection with the church. For some time after the organization, meetings were held in the
                    Methodist church. In 1849 the cangregation built a church on the west side of north Main Cross
                    Street, which is now the Knights of Pythias hall.
                The Disciples or Christian church was organized about 1832. A Baptist church had existed earlier. The
                    old meeting house was situated some distance north of where the railroad station now is. About 1837
                    the baptist organization disbanded and a greater part of the members united with the Christian
                    church. The present Christian church was erected in 1878.
                The Presbyterian church was organized in 1866. The first services were held in Snider Hall, the
                    present town hall. In  1868 the congregation erected the brick
                    church on south Main Cross street. Chief among the zealous members of the church was Mrs. Kate U.
                    Johnson, wife of Judge Nimrod Johnson and the mother of Henry U. and Robert U. Johnson, and it was
                    through her efforts as a solicitor and contributor that the church was built. After the removal of
                    the county seat and the decline of the town, the church was purchased by the Friends and is now
                    their house of worship.
                PUBLIC HOUSES.
                The early hotels or taverns were important institutions in the pioneer days. Rachel Neal is said to
                    have been the first innkeeper. There are people now living who remember Mrs. Neal, but where her inn
                    was situated I have not been able to learn.
                The old Major Gay tavern opposite the public square, where there is now a livery stable, was fitted
                    up in 1834, by Thomas G. Noble, and occupied by him for several years. General Samuel DeLong
                    succeeded Mr. Noble for several years.
                In 1830 William Elliott built the frame hotel on the southeast corner of the public square, and
                    occupied it until 1835. John Hutchinson succeeded Mr. Elliott and kept an excellent house. In 1838
                    Daniel Lashley, with his mother and younger brother Alfred, purchased the tavern. Among all the
                    hotel keepers of 
                        Wayne county
                     none were more favorably known than the Lashleys. They continued in the business, in
                    the same house, for many years. It was headquarters for many of the prominent men of the legal
                    profession. Judge Perry, of 
                        Richmond
                    , always made it his home when attending court. It was a home-like, well-ordered,
                    excellent hotel. Mr. Lashley was the best of hosts. The Lashley house was moved from the public
                    square some years ago to where it now stands, a few squares east of the old location. A fine brick
                    residence occupies the site. This was built for the sheriff's house, and is now the residence of the
                    Frazier brothers and Miss Frazier. The old Lashley house is now a private residence. John King was
                    the last to keep it as a hotel. In 1833 John Dorsey fitted up the large frame building nearly
                    opposite the bank, for a hotel and occupied it for some time. He was succeeded by John Allison,
                    Abbott W. Bowers and John Winders. Solomon Brumfield bought the 
                    property and occupied it. Under his management it was well kept.
                In 1837 Henry Rowan fitted up a small tavern east of the public square and kept it several years. He
                    afterwards erected a three-story hotel building adjoining, which is now the residence of Lloyd K.
                    Hill.
                Samuel Hannah kept the American house, on the south-west corner of Main street. He was a merchant,
                    also, and had his store in the corner room. Later, the American House was kept by Emsley Hamm, T. L.
                    Rowan and others. The building is now owned by Simon McConaha.
                The Jones House is the last in the line of the old hostelries. The south half was built by Emsley
                    Hamm. The north half was built by Daniel Shank. Subsequently Mr. Hamm bought the north part from Mr.
                    Shank, and kept a hotel for some years. He afterwards sold the house to Dr. C. J. Woods and moved to 
                        Economy
                    , and upon his return to 
                        Centerville
                     kept the American House for two years. Norris Jones who succeeded Mr. Hamm gave the
                    name to the house and for several years kept an excellent, though small hotel.
                Samuel Hannah, although at one time a hotel keeper and merchant filled many important places. He was
                    a man of distinction. The young people who compiled a Who-When-What book,* had
                    some trouble not to confuse him with the other Samuel Hanna of 
                        Indiana
                    , who lived at 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    . There is a difference in the spelling of the name. The Who-When-What book gives a
                    brief sketch of our Samuel Hannah: "A pioneer of 
                        Wayne county
                    ; member of the Society of Friends; conspicuous for opposition to the collection of the
                    fines from Quakers who refused to do military duty. A native of 
                        Delaware
                    , born December 1, 1789, Mr. Hannah came 
                        Indiana
                     as a young man; served as sheriff of 
                        Wayne county
                    ; a member of the Legislature; was Justice of the Peace and member of the county board;
                    was appointed Post master of 
                        Centerville
                     by John Quincy Adams and removed by Andrew Jackson, in pursuance of the Marcy
                    proclamation, "To the victors belong the spoils." He was one of the commissioners appointed to
                    locate the 
                        Michigan
                     road, the great highway authorized from Lake Michigan to the Ohio
                    
                        
                            *A book of brief biographies compiled by the 
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Press some years ago.
                    
                     river; also a commissionier to select the lands to be ceded to
                    the State by an Indian treaty. Afterward Mr. Hanna was a member of the Legislature and Treasurer of
                    the State; removed to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1847; became interested in railroad construction and improvements; was first
                    treasurer of the Indiana Central Railroad Company. He died September 8, 1869. Mr. Hannah possessed
                    the rugged elements of strength and manhood which qualify men for frontier life; for developing the
                    material resources and building a commonwealth on justice and liberty."
                The red brick school house opposite to Mr. Lashley's was the home of Judge John C. Kibbey, who was so
                    well known here and at 
                        Richmond
                    . The place is now the home of Mr. Andrew Dunbar.
                The brick house on the corner west of the Trumbull residence was built by Rawson Vaile, a teacher in
                    the old seminary and also a teacher in 
                        Richmond
                    . He was a brother of Dr. Joel Vaile, of 
                        Richmond
                    , a prominent physician and public school trustee, after whom one of the school houses
                    of 
                        Richmond
                     is named.
                Judge Nimrod Johnson bought the Vaile property and this was the Johnson homestead for many years.
                    Here Henry U. and Robert U. Johnson spent their boyhood. Judge Johnson was not only eminent in the
                    legal profession, but he was a man of vast literary knowledge. Mrs. Johnson was Miss Kate Underwood
                    and was a native of 
                        Washington, D.
                        C.
                    
                The quaint old house, now the home of Mrs. Jennie Savage, was in the old time, the Doughty home.
                    Samuel Doughty was a merchant. His store was where Jacob Wolfe's is now. Mr. Doughty had his home in 
                        Richmond
                     in later years, and died there about a year ago.
                The house where Mrs. Gibson lives, on Walnut street, was the Dill home. It is an old-time place, with
                    colonial pillars to the portico. Mr. Dill was a cabinet maker, and went to 
                        Richmond
                     many years ago.
                The large white brick house on north Main Gross street, known as the Pritchett property, was built by
                    Judge Williams, or rather the south end was. Judge John S. Newman built the north end. This was a
                    grand mansion in its day. Judge Newman was a Quaker lawyer and for ten years a partner of Jessie
                    Siddall. He was of the Hoover stock. His wife was Eliza, daughter  of Samuel Hannah; his daughter, Gertrude, married Ingram Fletcher, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He was the first president of the Indiana Central railroad and held many other
                    responsible positions. He removed to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1860. Dr. Pritchett bought the house of Judge Newman. It was the Pritchett homestead
                    for many years. Here Dr. Pritchett and his estimable wife passed their declining years. The house
                    was inherited by the daughter, Miss Mary Pritchett.
                Opposite the Pritchett house, on the east, is a frame house where Jeremiah Wayne Swafford lived the
                    last thirty years of his life, and where he peacefully died last summer, at the age of eighty-four.
                    Mr. Swafford was a pioneer of 
                        Wayne county
                     and Justice of the Peace nearly all his life and up to the time of his death. He was
                    widely known as a business man in 
                        Wayne
                     and adjoining counties.
                In the early days, before this large house was built, there were two small frame dwellings on the
                    lot. One was the home of Rev. Mr. Rupe the father of attorney John Rupe, of 
                        Richmond
                    . The other frame building was the home for awhile of Dr. Rose. His wife Henrietta Rose
                    was a lady of attainment and a writer of some note. She was the author of a small volume entitled
                    "Nora Wilmot; a Tale of Temperance and Woman's Rights," published in 1858. The frontispiece is a
                    quaint old wood cut—"The Ladies' Knitting Party at Tradewells Saloon." The thread of the story runs
                    through that period when 
                        Indiana
                     had a prohibitory liquor law, which was declared unconstitutional by Judge Perkins of
                    the Supreme Court of 
                        Indiana
                    .
                James Rariden, one of the eminent men of his time, lived where Mrs. James M. Hill now lives. The
                    grounds included the lot where the Christian Church now stands. A summer house covered with vines
                    and flowers and shubbery gave the spot an air of rural retreat. But this lovely spot was too much
                    retired and Mr. Rariden moved into a brick house on west Main street. It was in this house that Mr.
                    Rariden entertained Henry Clay when he made his tour through 
                        Indiana
                    . A reception was held in the evening for the great Kentuckian. The children as well as
                    the older people attended. Mr. Clay was very fond of children and kissed them all. Mrs. Ensley was
                    then little Sarah Hamm and remembers being kissed. Mr. Clay said to little Gertrude  Newman, now Mrs. Ingram Fletcher: "My dear, you have a very pretty
                    name, but it ought to be pronounced Jertrude." And to a boy he said: "You have a very large mouth,
                    but that does not matter in a boy." As Mr. Clay had a large mouth this remark caused a hearty laugh
                    all round. It was in this house that Mr. Clay authorized a committee to offer freedom to his body
                    servant, the petted slave Charlie, who declined to leave his master. The house has changed owners
                    several times in recent years and it is at present the home of Mr. and Mrs. Joshua Eliason. After
                    Mr. Rariden left the rural retreat Rosswell Elmer and wife occupied it. They were the parents of
                    Charles N. Elmer and Mrs. James Forkner.
                John Finley, the poet, and for many years the Mayor of 
                        Richmond
                    , when clerk of 
                        Wayne county
                     court resided in a small house on Plum street, near the Elmer home. The cottage and
                    extensive gardens of Mr. E. Y. Teas, the well known florist, was for years the home of Henry Noble,
                    who now lives in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Two houses on an elevation north of the railroad, always attracting attention of
                    travelers, are notable mansions of the olden time. The one on the west was built by Samuel Hannnah.
                    James Forkner improved it and occupied it until he removed to 
                        Richmond
                    . It is now the property of C. L. Porter, and the home of Thomas Clark. On the east of
                    this is the mansion built by Daniel Strattan. He was a tanner by trade and a prominent citizen.
                    Beautiful for situation is the fine old mansion south of the railroad, built by Jacob B. Julian. It
                    was the family residence previous to his removal to 
                        Irvington
                    . On the west of Mr. Seaton was the home of Jesse Stevens, a pioneer of 
                        Centerville
                    . Mrs. John Paige, of 
                        Richmond
                    , and Mrs. Henry Noble, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , were daughters of Mr. and Mrs. Stevens. The house is now the home of Mrs. Nichols. A
                    large brick house on the south side of Main street, the home of Jesse Brumfield, was built by Martin
                    Hornish, a shoe-maker and a prosperous citizen. Judge Stitt lived where H. H. Peelle now lives, and
                    next, on the east, was the home of Judge Jesse Siddall. Farther east on Main street is a substantial
                    brick house built by George W. Julian, which was the family residence for many years previous to
                    removal to 
                        Irvington
                    . Dr. Silas H. Kersey bought the property, and made it his family residence for several
                    years. It was in this  house that Dr. Kersey died. It is now the
                    residence of I. L. Houck. Opposite, on the north, on the site of the residence of George Sanders,
                    stood one of the oldest houses of 
                        Centerville
                    . Mrs. Rebecca Julian lived there at one time. Her husband, Isaac Julian, died and left
                    her a widow with a family of children. She was a sister of Judge David Hoover, a pioneer of 
                        Wayne county
                    , and the mother of George W. Julian. Across the street to the east is the brick house
                    that was long the home of Dr. William F. King, deceased. He was an eminent physician and prominent
                    citizen. The house is now the residence of his daughter, Miss Emilie King. North east, on the same
                    square is an old frame house, one of the oldest now standing in 
                        Centerville
                    . It was the residence of James B. Ray, afterwards Governor of 
                        Indiana
                    . C. Cooney now resides there.
                On west Main street, where H. C. Means now lives, was the residence of Martin M. Ray, a brother to
                    Governor Ray. He was a lawyer and a merchant as well. His store was in the corner building occupied
                    now by Tillson's drug store. Frederick Snider, a merchant, had his store where Mr. King now has a
                    restaurant. On west Main street where Bert Horner now lives, is the house built by Thomas Gentry, a
                    tanner and one of the substantial citizens. Lot Bloomfield built the house where Isaac Jenkins now
                    lives. He was a merchant of the place. His wife was Elizabeth Talbot, a sister to Mrs. Hamm and Mrs.
                    Dr. Pritchett. The Simon McConaha home was built by Dr. Pritchett, who occupied it before he bought
                    the Judge Newman place. The old house with dormer windows, now the residence of Alfred Lashley, in
                    the old time was the residence of Henry Beitzell. The old Burbank home was on the south side of Main
                    street opposite the court house. The house was partially destroyed by fire in later years. Mr.
                    Burbank was a merchant. The parlors and family apartments were up stairs over the store. The Burbank
                    young people were well educated and were prominent in social circles. It was in this home that
                    Oliver P. Morton was married to Lucinda Burbank.
                Ambrose Burnside, afterwards a lawyer at 
                        Liberty
                    , 
                        Union County
                    , and a General of renown in the Union army, worked at the tailor trade in a building
                    adjoining, and on the site of Dr. Gable's residence and office once stood a large hatter's shop  where the boy, Oliver P. Morton, learned his trade. Morton was
                    born at 
                        Salisbury
                    . He was left an orphan and brought by his aunts to 
                        Centerville
                     when a child, where he learned the trade with an older brother. Early in life he
                    attended the seminary here and Miami University, at 
                        Oxford
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , and was always a profound student. The early years of Morton's married life were
                    passed in a frame house on the north-east corner of south Main Cross street. The homestead known as
                    the Morton mansion, on west Main street, was built by Jacob B. Julian. Mr. Julian was a tree
                    planter, and his lawn was a landscape garden, where nature was permitted to rule. When Mr. Julian
                    built his stately home near the railroad he sold this Eden spot to Oliver P. Morton. Here a liberal
                    and unostentatious hospitality was dispensed by Morton and his amiable wife. It was while living in
                    this house that Morton was elected Lieutenant Governor on the ticket with Henry S. Lane. Judge
                    William A. Peelle bought the Morton mansion after his term as Secretary of State expired. Judge
                    Peedle died there on July 1, 1902. The house is now the home of his daughter, Miss Martha L. Peelle.
                Judge Charles H. Test lived on Main street where the town hall now stands. Mrs. James Rariden was his
                    sister. It was considered that Judge Test, while eminent as a lawyer, was by nature preeminent and
                    unequaled. He bore off the palm as the homeliest man in 
                        Indiana
                    . Adjoining the school-house campus on the east is the old homestead of Stephen Crowe,
                    one of the early blacksmiths of the place. Mr. Crowe sold the house to John Peele, an old settler,
                    and Samuel Boyd, a retired farmer, bought the place from Mr. Peele and passed the remainder of his
                    days there. The property is now the home of Mr. and Mrs. John Lashley. The house on the east, now
                    the residence of J. A. Commons, was the home of Sylvester Johnson, now of 
                        Irvington
                    , and a well-known horticulturist.
                Many do not know that the substantial brick building on the north-east corner of Main street was, in
                    the palmy days of 
                        Centerville
                    , the court-house of 
                        Wayne county
                    . It is now the business house of T. G. Dunbar, while the extension to the north, where
                    Mr. Dunbar resides, was once the sheriff's house and jail. The extension on the east was the county
                    offices.
            
            
            
                The 
                        Richmond
                     and 
                        Brookville
                     Canal
                BY JAMES M. MILLER
                
                [As one travels the highway between 
                        Richmond
                     and 
                        Brookville
                     he may find at intervals almost obliterated evidences of an old canal ditch upon which
                    no small labor was once expended. The history of this ditch is sunk in oblivion—is a chapter lost
                    from the story of internal improvements in 
                        Indiana
                    . It is not included among the works provided for by the internal improvement law of
                    1836, and ssems to have been taken up by the State as a sort of side work in connection with the
                    more prominent "Whitewater Canal," for
                    in the subjoined sketch we are told that the Board of Internal Improvements was "to use the local
                    engineers then employed on the Whitewater
                    Canal, and to incur no extra expense for the State." It should be understood that the
                    said Whitewater Canal, which was
                    completed and used, followed the West Fork of the Whitewater River, contributing materially to the development of the valley, while
                    the 
                        Richmond
                     and 
                        Brookville
                     Canal was to do the same service for the East Fork.
                So far as we know there is nowhere else any published account of this forgotten enterprise, and no
                    record of the men who promoted it. At our suggestion some years ago Mr. James M. Miller, of 
                        Brookville
                    , now deceased, undertook to rescue from various sources the information that he has
                    embodied in his article. In this connection Mr. Miller himself is deserving of a brief sketch. An
                    invalid for the greater part of his life from ossified joints of the lower limbs, helpless, and
                    dependent almost entirely upon the services of a devoted sister, his work of getting at obscure
                    facts was sadly handicapped. It was a long and arduous process for him, and that he gathered
                    together so much is a monument to his perseverance and patience—Ed.
                
                AMONG the first settlements in south-east 
                        Indiana
                     were those along the fertile valley of the East Fork of Whitewater River and its tributaries. The settlers were a
                    thrifty, energetic people, and their industry soon produced a surplus. At quite an early day
                    flatboats were built at 
                        Dunlapsville
                     and 
                        Quakertown
                     and loaded with the products of the farms, and when a rise in the river occured were
                    run out into the current and floated to 
                        New Orleans
                    . I remember hearing my mother tell of seeing a flatboat, in the spring of 1819 or 1820,
                    shoot Bassett's mill dam at 
                        Fairfield
                     on its way to 
                        New Orleans
                    , that had been built and loaded with provisions at 
                        Dunlapsville
                     by George Newland, father of the blind musician of that name, long known in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
                Possessing the push and energy that they did it is no wonder that these people were among the first
                    to advocate internal  improvements. Such improvement was very
                    early agitated and by 1834 the scheme for a canal down the East Fork began to assume form. On August
                    4 of that year, a meeting was held at 
                        Richmond
                     to consider the practicability of constructing a canal from that city to intersect the
                    proposed Whitewater Canal at or near 
                        Brookville
                    . This was followed by a meeting in 
                        Brookville
                     to consider the propriety of constructing a canal down the East Fork of the Whitewater River from a point in 
                        Darke county
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , to connect with the Miami
                    Canal at or near 
                        Dayton
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . On September 12, 1836, a convention of delegates from 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Franklin
                     counties assembled at 
                        Dunlapsville
                     in the interest of the proposed canal. On calling the roll the following delegates
                    answered: Robert Morrison, John Finley, Warner M. Leeds, John Ervin, Irwin Reed, Daniel P. Wiggins,
                    James W. Borden, Wm. R. Foulke, Alexander Stakes, Basil Brightwell, Achilles Williams, Mark Reeves
                    and W. B. Smith, of 
                        Richmond
                    ; Smith Hunt, Frederick Black, W. J. Matchett, Col. E. Rialsback, Jacob Hender, Thomas
                    J. Larsh and William Clerick, of 
                        Abington
                    ; William Watt, James Lamb, William Youse, Jesse Starr, T. H. Harding, J. F. Chapman,
                    Ladis Walling, Jacob Imel and Greenbury Beels, of 
                        Brownville
                    ; George Newland, John Templeton, J. W. Scott, Matthew Hughes, Hugh McCollough, Israel
                    Kirk and Bennett Osborn, of 
                        Dunlapsville
                    ; Redin Osborn and James Wright, of 
                        Fairfield
                    ; Abner McCarty, Samuel Goodwin, William T. Beeks, George Kimble, John Ryman, John M.
                    Johnson and George Holland, of 
                        Brookville
                    . A permanent organization was effected. Committees of three from each delegation were
                    appointed to correspond with parties residing on the line of the proposed canal and notify them of
                    future meetings, and give any other information in regard to the enterprise.
                January 27, 1837, the legislature of 
                        Indiana
                     directed the Board of Internal Improvements to survey and locate early the ensuing
                    summer a canal from 
                        Richmond
                     to 
                        Brookville
                    , to intersect the Whitewater
                    Canal at or near the latter place. They were to use the local engineers then employed on
                    the Whitewater Canal, and to incur no
                    extra expense for the State. Accordingly Colonel Simpson Torbet was employed as engineer-in-chief
                    and Colonel John H. Farquhar, Thomas Noell, Elisha Long, J. C. Moore and M. Dewey, who had been
                    employed on the Whitewater, I presume,
                         formed the engineering corps of the 
                        Richmond
                     and 
                        Brookville
                     Canal. December 2, 1837, Colonel Torbet made his report to the State Board of Internal
                    Improvements, stating that he had completed the "survey and location of a canal down the East Fork
                    of the Whitewater river, beginning at 
                        Richmond
                    , in 
                        Wayne county
                    , and terminating at 
                        Brookville
                    , in 
                        Franklin county
                    ."
                The canal was to be 33 ¼ miles long, 26 feet wide on the bottom, and 40 feet at the surface, and to
                    have a depth of 4 feet of water. There would be 3 ¼ miles of slack water and 3 miles of bluff,
                    requiring riprapping or loose stone protection. There was a fall of 273 ½ feet, requiring the
                    following mechanical structures: 2 guard locks, 2 aqueducts, 7 culverts, 2 water weirs with gates,
                    16 road bridges, 2 towpath bridges over the East Fork, 5 dams, and 31 lift locks. The dams were to
                    be located at the following points: Dam No. 1, one-half mile from 
                        Richmond
                    , at the National road, 160 feet long; Dam No. 2, 160 feet long, 5 ¼ miles from 
                        Richmond
                    , near Larsh's mill; Dam No. 3, 170 feet long, 11 ¼ miles from from 
                        Richmond
                    , near Ottis' mills; Dam No. 4, 180 feet long, above 
                        Fairfield
                    , and 23 ½ miles from 
                        Richmond
                    ; Dam No. 5, 200 feet long, above 
                        Brookville
                     and 32 miles from 
                        Richmond
                    . The locks, each 90 feet long by 15 feet wide, were to be located at the following
                    places: No. 1, one-half mile from 
                        Richmond
                    , at the National road bridge; No. 2, at Bancroft's factory; No. 3, at Siddle's mills;
                    No. 4, McFadden's saw mill; No. 5, Rue's mill; No. 6, Henderson's farm; No. 7, Henderson's saw mill;
                    No. 8, Colonel Hunt's lands; No. 9, at Shroyer's farm; No. 10, at 
                        Abington
                    ; No. 11, at Schwisher's house; No. 12, guard lock where the canal crossed the river;
                    Nos. 13 and 14, in 
                        Brownsville
                    ; No. 15, at Aschenbury's saw mill; Nos. 16 and 17, at Adney's lands; No. 18, at Silver
                    creek; No. 19, at Newland's, near 
                        Dunlapsville
                    ; No. 20, at J. F. Templeton's lands; No. 21, at Hanna's creek; No. 22, above 
                        Fairfield
                    ; Nos. 23 and 24, at Wolf creek;
                    No. 25, at Robert Templeton's farm; No. 26, at John Logan's lands; No. 27, at McCarty's farm; No.
                    28, on school section; No. 29, at Butler's land; Nos. 30 and 31, in 
                        Brookville
                    .
                The line of the canal followed down the right (east) bank of the river for a distance of 11 ¼ miles,
                    when it crossed over to the left (west) bank at Dam No. 3, and followed that side of the  river for 12 ¼ miles, passing into slack water below Hanna's creek, and recrossing to the right bank
                    at Dam No. 4, above 
                        Fairfield
                    , and continued down that side of the river to 
                        Brookville
                    .
                This is the route according to the original survey, but it must have been re-located, for Mr. George
                    Templeton informs us that the line crossed over to the left (west) bank at the southwest corner of
                    his farm, near where the school house stands on 
                        Fairfield
                     pike, and that there was to have been a feeder dam at that place. This would correspond
                    with the locks located on the John Logan, Abner McCarty and Amos Butler lands, besides avoiding some
                    extensive bluff excavations, and is a far more practicable route than to have continued down the
                    east side of the river from the dam above 
                        Fairfield
                     to 
                        Brookville
                    . This would locate Dam 5 about 30 miles instead of 32 miles from 
                        Richmond
                     and about 3 ½ miles above 
                        Brookville
                    . The route as surveyed in 
                        Brookville
                     passed down east Market street to the intersection of James, now Fourth, street, where
                    it veered to the west and terminated in the pool of the whitewater canal formed by the dam across the East Fork. The
                    estimated cost of the canal per mile was $15,277, and for the 33 ¼ miles, $483,778, including
                    contingencies of $24,188; the entire cost of the canal was estimated to be $507,966.
                Colonel Torbet says in his report of the proposed improvement: "With the exception of the bluffs and
                    the lockage the valley of the East Fork is of the most favorable character for the construction of a
                    canal. There would be many advantages growing out of its construction, the benefit of which can
                    scarcely be anticipated. It would be the channel through which all the trade of one of the most
                    populous, fertile and wealthy regions of the western country would pass. 
                        Ricmond
                    , situated at the head of navigation, with its vast water power, extensive capital, and
                    enterprising inhabitants, might become the Pittsburg of 
                        Indiana
                    ."
                A fatality seems to have followed the engineers of the Whitewater and 
                        Richmond
                     and 
                        Brookville
                     canals. Colonel Schreiver died while he was engaged in surveying the former, while
                    Colonel Torbet, completing the survey of the latter, made his final report January 5, 1838, and died
                    the 23d of the following March at John Godley's, near 
                        Harrison
                    , 
                        O.
                    
                In January of 1838 a meeting was held in 
                        Brookville
                     in the interest of the canal. A draft of a charter for the organization  of a company was approved, and two committees were appointed, one to
                    correspond with our representatives in the ligislature, requesting their influence in behalf of the
                    charter, and the other to communicate with towns along the line of the proposed canal. In the same
                    month a meeting was also held at 
                        Fairfield
                    , of which James Osborn was chairman, and Messrs. James L. Andrews, James McManus,
                    George W. Thompson and Nathaniel Bassett were appointed commissioners, as required in the charter.
                    In February of 1839 Warner M. Leeds, secretary of the company, published the following notice:
                "
                        Richmond
                     and 
                        Brookville
                     Canal Stock Subscription. Books for subscription of stock in the 
                        Richmond
                     and 
                        Brookville
                     Canal will be opened by the commissioners on the first day of April. 1839, and kept
                    open twenty-one days, agreeable to the charter, at the following places, viz: 
                        Richmond
                    , 
                        Abington
                    , 
                        Brownsville
                    , 
                        Dunlapsville
                    , 
                        Fairfield
                     and 
                        Brookville
                    . The following commissioners were authorized to have special charge of said books, one
                    of whom will attend to each of the following places for the purpose of receiving
                    subscriptions:—Robert Morrison, 
                        Richmond
                    ; Col. Smith Hunt, 
                        Abington
                    ; John Rider, 
                        Brownsville
                    ; James Osborn and James Andrews, 
                        Fairfield
                    , and Samuel Goodwin, 
                        Brookville
                    ."
                The 
                        Richmond
                     Palladium of April 27, 1839, states that 
                        Franklin
                    , 
                        Union
                     and 
                        Wayne
                     counties had taken $215,000 worth of stock, of which $50,000 was taken by 
                        Richmond
                    , the following citizens of that place taking stock: William Dewey, Warner M. Leeds,
                    Benjamin Fulgum, James King, Andress S. Wiggins, Charles Paulson, John Ogan, Dennis McMullen, Henry
                    Moorman, Caleb Sheren, Irwin Reed, Joseph M. Gilbert, Benjamin Strattan, William Owen, Cornelius
                    Ratliff, William Kenworthy, John Sufferin, Benjamin Mason, Basil Brightwell, Benjamin Pierce, Isaac
                    Jones, Benjamin Strawbridge, Armstrong Grimes, Solomon Horney, jr., Jacob J. Keefer, Reuben M.
                    Worth, William Meek, William S. Watt, John M. Laws, Isaac Beeson, Kasson Brookins, Henry
                    Hollingsworth, James W. Salter, Hugh S. Hamilton, Thomas Newman, William B. Smith, Oliver Kinsey,
                    Clayton Hunt and Samuel E. Perkins. For the names of the stockholders I am indebted to Joseph C.
                    Ratliff, of 
                        Richmond
                    .
                Undoubtedly 
                        Brookville
                     and 
                        Franklin county
                     did their duty  and were as generous as 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Union
                     counties or any of the towns along the line of the canal, but after great exertion I
                    have learned of but two in the county who took stock in the canal. These were Graham Hanna and James
                    Wright.
                In September of 1839 
                        Richmond
                     and 
                        Brookville
                     papers contained advertisements calling for bids for constructing sections 1, 2 and 3,
                    near 
                        Richmond
                    ; 13, near 
                        Abington
                    ; 20, near 
                        Brownsville
                    ; 40, near 
                        Fairfield
                    , and 52, near 
                        Brookville
                    . The advertisement states that the sections to be let "embrace a number of mechanical
                    structures, consisting principally of dams and locks, with some heavy bluff excavations."
                    Specifications of the work were to be posted at Dr. Matchett's tavern in 
                        Abington
                    , Dr. Mulford's tavern in 
                        Brownsville
                    , Abijah DuBois' tavern in 
                        Fairfield
                    , D. Hoffman's tavern in 
                        Brookville
                    , and at the company's office in 
                        Richmond
                    . The lettings took place as advertised, except section 52, near 
                        Brookville
                    , which, owing to the heavy excavations, was not let. I cannot learn of any work done
                    near 
                        Brookville
                    , but on section 40, near 
                        Fairfield
                    , the contractors, Henry and Harvey Pierce, excavated about one-and-a-half miles of the
                    canal down the east side of the river to the farm now owned by Misses Sallie and Missouri Hanna.
                    Traces of excavation can also be plainly seen on the farm of James Blew. Sections 1, 2 and 3, near 
                        Richmond
                    , were let, and from a mile and a half to two miles of excavation made. No use of these
                    excavated portions was ever made until 1860, when Leroy Larsh erected a grist mill on the portion
                    near 
                        Richmond
                    , which is yet in operation.
                At the "breaking of ground" for the Whitewater
                        Canal John Finley, editor of the 
                        
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, quoting Moore's "Meeting of the Waters," with changes to suit the
                    occasion, said: "The last picayune shall depart from my fob ere the East and the West Forks
                    relinquish the job." Whether the last picayune departed from the editor's fob or not the present
                    writer can not say, but undoubtedly the East Fork relinquished the job, and 
                        Richmond
                     failed to become the "Pittsburg of 
                        Indiana
                    ."
            
            
            
                Recollections of Early 
                        Brookville
                    
                
                
                    MS. of John M. Johnson
                
                [These interesting reminiscences of early 
                        Brookville
                     and notable personages residing there three-quarters of a century ago are from a
                    manuscript submitted to us by Mr. John Johnson, of Irvington, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who found it among the papers of his father, John M. Johnson, now deceased. The latter
                    was for many years a resident of 
                        Brookville
                    , and long in public life in that city. The manuscript seems to have been written about
                    a quarter of a century ago.]
                IT has been fifty years since I crossed the beautiful Ohio river and stood upon the soil of 
                        Indiana
                    . I pass over my peregrinations until I arrived at the then famed town of 
                        Brookville
                    —the great town of the State and the residence of its great men.
                The first residence I stopped at in 
                        Brookville
                     was that of James Noble, then U. S. Senator. His residence was on the street west of
                    the public square. It was an humble-looking one-and-a-half story log house weather boarded and
                    painted white. Before the parlor room door was a portico. The parlor floor was covered with a red
                    Turkey carpet (the only imported carpet then in town except perhaps at Judge Test's). Before the
                    hearth was a handsome rug with the figure of a deer lying down on it. When you entered the parlor
                    you met a fine-looking lady above the medium size, with a ruffled cap, who attended to the
                    receptions at the senatorial mansion—a worthy partner of Senator Noble. Mary Noble, Hannah Gallion
                    and Betsy McCarty were among the excellent ladies who then resided in 
                        Brookville
                    , and who, in the exercise of "women's rights," milked their own cows, churned their own
                    butter and made their own brooms.
                The old brick court house (which occupied the site of the present one) was a square building in the
                    center of which ran up a cupola. On the top of the steeple was the carved representation of an eagle
                    with spreading wings. Through the court-room below ran the bar, made tight, with two gates to enter.
                    The inside was for the lawyers, and the outside, paved with brick, was the lobby for the people who
                    came to hear the lawyers plead. On the inside were the Grand and Petit Jury boxes. On the west side
                    was the judge's bench, raised nearly up to the ceiling.  A
                    winding stairs ran up in one corner to the upper story, where were the Grand and Petit Jury rooms.
                    In the cupola was then placed a triangle, put up by William Hoyt, an ingenious mechanic, to perform
                    the office of a bell by means of hammers striking on the base of the triangle. It gave forth a
                    clear, sharp sound which could be heard farther than the sound of a bell.
                A little east of the south-east corner of the court house stood the old log jail. This necessary
                    edifice encroached near the residence of one of the citizens; hence, upon a dark night a number of
                    his friends and "divers other persons to the Grand Jurors unknown" concluded they would abate it as
                    a nuisance; hence, in the morning not one log was left upon another. Another log jail, however, was
                    built near where now stands your "Burnett House," and which afterward performed the office of
                    Grass-muck's stable. This jail was celebrated for having been the residence of Fields, an old
                    Revolutionary soldier, who was convicted of murder and pardoned under the gallows by Governor Ray,
                    to the great disappointment of a large concourse of people who had assembled to witness his
                    execution. No man was ever hung in 
                        Franklin county
                    . An amusing occurrence of "jail delivery" took place whilst Robert John was sheriff and
                    jailor. A man was confined in jail on a charge of horse stealing. His wife visited him and remained
                    with him over night. In the morning the prisoner, dressed in his wife's clothes, mounted her horse
                    and made his escape. It was afterward found, to the amusement of the people, that it was the man who
                    rode away and the woman who was left imprisoned.
                The public square was not fenced in except the "stray pen," on the south-east corner. The public well
                    was a little south of the south-east corner of the court house. It was over ninety feet deep. The
                    water was drawn by means of a windlass. An old man whom the people called Death drew water for the
                    public. He was, indeed, the picture of death.
                On the south-east corner of the square, on Main Burgess street, stood the "
                        Brookville
                     Hotel," the leading tavern for many years. Mine host, Robert John then and there
                    catered to the way-worn traveler, and if any man could cheer his guests by conversation, he was the
                    man. On the corner south of the public square was standing the "Yellow Tavern," which  had been built at an early day by James Knight. It was then kept by
                    William Campbell, a tall, portly man. The tavern, while kept by him, was a place of great resort. He
                    was a hospitable man, generous to a fault, and never turned off a traveler because he was destitute
                    of money. In the upper part of town was J. Adder's tavern, with the sign of the green tree, which
                    was a familiar object to the vision of the passers-by for many years. This tavern was a great
                    stopping place for wagoners and drivers. John Adder was a tall, dark-complected man, and universally
                    esteemed. He was once recorder of the county. This tavern, when I first came to town, was kept by
                    Dr. Haynes, who also taught school in it.
                The newspaper then published in the town was, I believe, called the 
                        
                            Brookville
                         Inquirer. Robert John was the editor, and subsequently there was associated
                    with him I. N. Hanna, a sprightly and talented young man. The editors, however, soon got at
                    loggerheads. During the ensuing presidential canvass Robert John was for John Quincy Adams, and I.
                    N. Hanna for Henry Clay. An editorial would therefore come out for Adams followed by another, signed
                    "Junior Editor," for Clay; which created considerable sensation among the politicians of 
                        Brookville
                    —and, indeed, all the citizens were politicians.
                The old M. E. church was a brick building standing on the bluff in the northern part of town, and was
                    the only meetinghouse in town. It was once partly blown down and repaired, and is still standing as
                    a monument of olden times. The Rev. Agustus Jocelyn, a Methodist preacher, ministered to the people
                    in godly things at this church. He was a man of no ordinary talents. He was a tall man, about six
                    feet high, bald-headed, but wore a wig. He had cultivated oratory and had graceful gestures, with
                    distinct articulation. His figures were grand, and he illustrated his sermons by philosophy,
                    politics and history as well as from the Bible. He had generally among his auditors the most
                    enlightened citizens of 
                        Brookville
                    . He preached the sermon at the time Fields wasn't hung. He was also a schoolteacher and
                    an editor.
                The college at which I graduated was an humble frame building in the east bottom, which had been a
                    residence and is still standing. Dr. Isaac G. John was then the teacher. The old  teachers that the citizens still talked of and whose memory they
                    revered were Judge Laughlin and Solomon Allen. Dr. John afterwards became a promising physician, but
                    died in the morning of life.
                The land office at that time was at 
                        Brookville
                     for the sale of the U. S. lands in the New Purchase, and the land sales were then going
                    on. Gen. Robert Hanna was register. He resided in the large brick house in the northern part of town
                    (called "Tinker Town") in which Dr. Berry now resides. His office was immediately opposite him on
                    the west side of the street. Gen. Hanna in stature was a little below medium size; was a man of
                    talents and a good electioneerer; dressed plain, frequently on election day appearing with moccasins
                    and hunting-shirt. He was a delegate to the convention that framed the Constitution in 1816, and was
                    the first sheriff under the Territorial and State governments.* When the land
                    office was taken to 
                        Indianapolis
                     he removed there, and afterward held several official stations with credit. He
                    continued to reside at or near 
                        Indianapolis
                     until he met with his melancholy death by a railroad car.
                Lazarus Noble was the receiver of public monies. His office was in the large brick building
                    immediately east of the court house, which belonged to the Masonic lodge. He was a tall, handsome
                    man, with agreeable manners, and a brother of Senator James Noble. He married Margaret Vance, the
                    accomplished daughter of Capt. Samuel Vance, of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . When the land office was removed he died, on his way to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , at Judge Mount's, about ten miles from 
                        Brookville
                    .†
                MILES EGGLESTON.
                When you entered the old brick court house which I have described the first objects that struck your
                    attention were three men on the elevated judges' bench. In the center you beheld a good-looking
                    gentleman, rather below the middle size, with a good head, leaning a little to one side; with
                    ruffles protruding out of his bosom; well-dressed but a little disposed to slovenliness. This was
                    Miles C. Eggleston, President Judge of the Third Judicial Circuit. He was appointed President Judge
                    at the organization 
                        
                            *The first sheriff of 
                                Franklin county
                            , Mr. Johnson doubtless means.
                        †At the town of 
                                Metamora
                            .
                    
                     of the State government, and held the office for over
                    twenty-one years. He was a Virginian, and migrated to 
                        Brookville
                     during the territorial government. He had a liberal education, was a good Latin
                    scholar, and indulged the habit of quoting Latin among the bar. He was admitted to the bar under the
                    territorial government. He was not a great advocate before a jury but was eminently qualified for a
                    judge.
                On either side of the President sat a plain-looking farmer (we then had two associate judges)—on his
                    right hand David Mount, and on his left John Hanna. They had such implicit confidence in the legal
                    abilities of Judge Eggleston that they scarcely ever differed with him in opinion. Judge Hanna,
                    however, sometimes took the responsibility of differing with him. When he did so he always cited
                    Judge Grimke, of 
                        South Carolina
                     (Judge Hanna being from that State). Judge Eggleston was justly regarded as one of the
                    best judges of the State. His charges to the jury were clear and clothed in fine language, and were
                    listened to with the utmost attention by them. He was as pure and upright a judge as Lord Hale. The
                    people of the county had such confidence in him that they would quote his decisions before those of
                    the Supreme Court. He was looked to in those days with the same veneration as the late Judge
                    McDonald during the present. He presided in a number of prosecutions for murder in which were
                    engaged the most eminent counsel of the day, and his decisions were regarded with the highest
                    respect.
                Judge Eggleston was a man of fine literary attainments. He wrote well. He once delivered a
                    Fourth-of-July oration at 
                        Brookville
                     which was published and considered by the literary men of the day as a fine specimen of
                    eloquence. He never engaged in politics. When off the bench he enjoyed himself among his friends,
                    was excellent company and enjoyed a good joke. He was kind and indulgent to the young members of the
                    bar, and seemed to court their society, and they would try a case with great confidence before him,
                    even when opposed by old attorneys. He observed the utmost decorum and impartiality in court. He
                    made the lawyers keep their places. There was no slipping to the judge and holding a private
                    conversation—no leading lawyers leaning on the judges' seat. The attorneys had to address the  judges publicly from their places at the bar.
                ENOCH M'CARTY.
                In front of the judges' bench stood a large table, and at this table sat Enoch McCarty, clerk of the 
                        Franklin
                     Circuit Court. He had been clerk under the territorial government, was re-elected upon
                    the organization of the State government, and continued to serve for three successive terms of seven
                    years each. He was regarded as the best clerk in the State. I was his deputy for several years. He
                    was in stature about the medium size; a plain man; dressed plain; was easily approached, and was
                    popular with the masses. He was familiarly called "'Nuch" McCarty. He was a man of good information,
                    had read Blackstone, understood the general principles of the law, and was well versed in the
                    statutes. The people, consequently, called on him for advice. He was a member of the Constitutional
                    Convention of 1816. After retiring from the clerk's office he served as associate (judge?), and
                    senator and representative to the State legislature. He died at a good old age, beloved by the
                    people of the county, on his farm below 
                        Brookville
                    .
                NOAH NOBLE.
                At the right of the clerk, below the "judgment seat," sat at a stand a tall, fine-looking man,
                    dressed in black cloth, with a white neckerchief tied behind, rising gracefully, occasionally, to
                    call Richard Roe and dispense orders to his bailiffs, Alex. Gardner, Jo. Gentry and others. He was
                    fascinating in his manners, had a talismanic shake of the hand and was personally one of the best
                    electioneerers in the county. Indeed, it was a common saying that whenever he shook hands with a man
                    he had him—I might say a woman too. He would be a great electioneerer if he were living when the
                    women vote. He wrote such an illegible hand that he couldn't read it himself when it got dry. A man
                    once brought in a letter he had written to him for him to read. He couldn't read it till he found
                    out what subject it was on. The man I have described was Noah Noble, sheriff of 
                        Franklin county
                     afterward Governor of the State of 
                        Indiana
                    . He also filled the offices of Representative to the State Legislature, Receiver of
                    Public Moneys at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Canal Commissioner. He died in the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , much beloved.
            
            
            
                An Early Criminal Case—Samuel Fields
                BY JAMES M. MILLER
                
                [In the article immediately preceding reference is made to "Fields, an old Revolutionary soldier,"
                    who was condemned to death for murder but was pardoned on the gallows by Governor James B. Ray. The
                    case was once a well-known one in south-eastern 
                        Indiana
                    . The following account of it, and the graphic description of the scene at the gallows
                    was written, at our instance, by James M. Miller of 
                        Brookville
                     (see introductory note to "The 
                        Richmond
                     and 
                        Brookville
                     Canal.") It affords glimpses of early-day customs and of local personages. The crime,
                    trial and pardon on the gallows occurred between November of 1824 and May of 1825—Ed.]
                IN November of 1824, an affidavit was filed against one Samuel Fields, an old Revolutionary soldier
                    residing in 
                        Bath
                     township, charging him with assault, and the warrant was placed in the hands of a young
                    constable named Robert Murphy. When Murphy went to serve the warrant Fields refused to accompany
                    him, but said he would appear the next morning, and on returning home without making the arrest
                    Robert was criticised by his father, ‘Squire Samuel Murphy, who urged that this was his first
                    official act, and the failure to do his duty would at once lay him open to the charge of cowardice
                    and inefficiency. Influenced by this argument Robert returned to Field's home, accompanied by
                    several neighbors. Meanwhile Fields, apparently expecting that he would return, whetted a large
                    butcherknife and stuck it in a crack of the log wall just inside the door. When he saw Murphy and
                    his companions coming, he appeared at the door, warning them to keep away. The constable, however,
                    continued to advance, talking persuasively to the old man, who still warned him off. Just as he set
                    his foot on the puncheon, which formed the doorstep, Fields snatched the knife from the logs where
                    it was sticking and plunged it into Murphy's left side, after which he slammed the door to. Murphy
                    fell, mortally hurt. Ten days later he died, to the universal sorrow of his neighbors, who esteemed
                    him highly.
                The Grand Jury, consisting of James Osborn, David Watson, Joseph Schoonover, Henry Fay, Andrew
                    Jackson, James Jones. Nathan Springer, Henry Slater, John Blue, Matthew Karr, Allen Simpson, John
                    Ewing, John Halberstadt, Charles Collett and Thomas Herndon met and found the following indictment:
                
                "We find that the said Samuel Fields, not having the fear of God before his eyes, but being moved and
                    seduced by the instigations of the devil, did then and there, on the third day of November, eighteen
                    hundred and twenty-four, with a butcher-knife, worth the sum of twenty-five cents, in his own right
                    hand, thrust, stab, etc., the said Robert Murphy, causing the death of same."
                Field's trial came off in March of 1825, in the 
                        Franklin County
                     Circuit Court, of the judicial district, Judge Miles C. Eggleston presiding, with John
                    Hanna and David Mount as associate judges. Oliver H. Smith was prosecutor, and William T. Morris and
                    John T. McKinney attorneys for the defense. The jury consisted of Thomas G. Noble, Abraham
                    Hollingsworth, John Caldwell, Elijah Carben, Bradberry Cottrell,(?) David Moore, Solomon Allen,
                    Enoch Abraham, John Davis, Lemuel Snow, Matthew Gray and Henry Berry—some of the best men in the
                    county. The most damaging testimony against the defendant was by his own daughter, a Mrs. Thompson,
                    who testified with tears running down her cheeks. The verdict brought in was "Murder in the first
                    degree," and Judge Eggleston sentenced Fields to be hanged, appointing Friday, May 27, as the date.
                    There was a remarkable division of sentiment about Fields. No one denied his criminality, and the
                    community where Murphy had lived, made up of settlers from 
                        New Jersey
                    , who were bound closely together in their sympathies, were very bitter toward the
                    murderer; but the fact that he was a soldier of the Revolution made a strong feeling in his favor,
                    and many wished for his pardon by the Governor.
                On the day of the hanging 
                        Brookville
                     was full of people to witness the execution. My mother, then thirteen years old, was in
                    this crowd, and she has described to me the incidents of the day. The gallows was a large sycamore
                    tree, that stood on the river bank at the foot of Main street, and from which all obstructing
                    branches had been lopped away, leaving one large horizontal limb for the rope. One other feature was
                    the running-gears of a wagon, mounted with a kind of platform. This was to be drawn from under the
                    prisoner at the proper time. The grave was dug a short distance from this tree. Robert John, father
                    of the well-known Dr. J. P. D. John, was the sheriff. With twenty-five  deputies armed with flint-lock muskets, and with bands of red flannel
                    on their right arms as insignia of authority, he marched to the old log jail that stood east of the
                    town hall, brought out Fields, placed him on a chair on the platform of the wagon, with his coffin
                    besided him, and so conducted him to the place of execution, the deputies forming a guard around the
                    wagon. As they took their place beneath the tree the crowd closed in, and my mother, who was in the
                    heart of it, was forced up against the hind wheel of the wagon, and, though she turned deathly sick
                    at the thought of what she was about witness, she could not stir from the spot.
                The minister, John Boffman,∗ preached the funeral sermon, and one of the hymns
                    sung was "Show Pity, Lord! Oh, Forgive!". Then the sheriff pinioned the arms of the prisoner, placed
                    the noose around his neck and the black cap on, ready to be drawn down, and, with tears running down
                    his cheeks, ascended a ladder to the limb above and fastened the rope. When he came down he took his
                    station beside Fields, with his watch in his hand, and solemnly proclaimed that the condemned man
                    had twenty-three minutes to live. A man named Walter Rolf had charge of the horses that were hitched
                    to the wagon. At the expiration of the time he arose, drew the lines and cracked his whip, and the
                    horses surged forward, causing the wagon to move a little, which tightened the rope, drawing the
                    prisoner up until he sat erect.
                Just then there was a shout that a man was coming down the hill, and all attention was drawn in that
                    direction. It proved to be Governor Ray who, dressed in the uniform of a general of the Indiana
                    militia, had ridden on horseback all the way from Indi-anapolis. Making his way through the crowd he
                    ascended the platform and placed a roll of paper in Fields' hand, saying: "Here, I give you your
                    life."
                Amid shouts of approval from some and execrations from others Fields decended from the wagon and was
                    taken in charge by his friends. He left the county, going first to a place near 
                        Hamilton
                    , 
                        O.
                    , and finally to 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , 
                        Ind.
                    , where he died a few years later.
                
                    
                        ∗John M. Johnson, on p. 197, says Augustus Jocelyn preached this sermon.
                        Elsewhere, we believe, Mr. Miller speaks more circumstantially of Boffman as the
                    preacher.
                
            
            
            
                The Whitewater Valley
                THE Whitewater region, with which the
                    four preceding articles are concerned, comprising the valley of the Whitewater River with its two branches, extends from the
                        Ohio river northward for nearly half the
                    length of the State, with a width varying from twelve to twenty-five miles. In pioneer times it was
                    familiarly known as "The Whitewater," and the frequency with which it is alluded to in the local
                    literature of those days reveals its then importance.
                This territory has, indeed, claims to distinction. There, it may be said, Indiana practically had her
                    beginnings. There lay the first strip of land that marked, in 
                        Indiana
                    , the oncoming tide of the white man's progress westward—the first overlap from 
                        Ohio
                    , which grew, cession by cession, west and north. There sprang up some of our most
                    important early centers of population—
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , 
                        Brookville
                    , Conniersville, 
                        Richmond
                    , and others; there resided, at one time or another, a remarkable number of men who have
                    made their impress upon the State's history or on the world at large, and thence came waves of
                    migration that have spread over the State. This immigration has supplied an important element of the
                    population in not a few localities. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , for example, in her first days was so nearly made up of people from Whitewater and 
                        Kentucky
                     that a political division, it is said, sprang up along the sectional line, and these
                    two classes were arrayed against each other in the first local campaign, with Whitewater leading.
                    Long after that they continued to come from the cities mentioned above and intervening localities,
                    and the number at the capital to-day who look back to the Whitewater as their old home is
                    surprisingly large. 
                        Madison
                    , also, in her growing, hopeful days, drew good blood from this center, and over the
                    State generally, and beyond its borders, the same is true.
                Of the men of mark who have hailed from the Whitewater 
                        Brookville
                     and 
                        Franklin county
                     alone lay claim to perhaps half-a-hundred, the most notable of whom I find named and
                    classified as follows in the columns of a 
                        Brookville
                     paper:
                GOVERNORS—James B. Ray, Noah Noble, William Wallace  and Abraham Hammond, Governors of Indiana; Will Cumback,
                    Lieutenant-Governor of Indiana; Lew Wallace, Governor of 
                        New Mexico
                    ; John P. St. John, Governor of 
                        Kansas
                    ; Stephen S. Harding, Governor of 
                        Utah
                    ; J. Wallace, Governor of Wyoming. Nominated for Governor of Indiana, but defeated: J.
                    A. Matson, Whig, and C. C. Matson, Democrat, father and son.
                UNITED STATES SENATORS—Jesse B. Thomas, from 
                        Illinois
                    ; James Noble and Robert Hanna, from Indiana; John Henderson, from 
                        Mississippi
                    .
                CABINET OFFICERS AND FOREIGN MINISTERS, ETC.—James N. Tyner, Postmaster General; James S. Clarkson, Assistant Postmaster
                    General; Lew Wallace, Minister to Turkey; Edwin Terrell, Minister to Belgium; George Hitt,
                    Vice-Consul to 
                        London
                    ; L. T. Mitchener, Attorney-General of Indiana.
                SUPREME JUDGES—Isaac Blackford, John T. McKinney and Stephen C.
                    Stephens. It is cited as the most remarkable instance on record that in these three men 
                        Brookville
                     had at one time the entire Supreme Bench of 
                        Indiana
                    .
                WRITERS EDUCATORS AND MINISTERS—Lew Wallace,
                    Maurice Thompson (born in the county), Joaquin Miller (born in the county), and a dozen or more of
                    local fame; J. P. D. John, (formerly) President DePauw University, Wm. M. Dailey, President Indiana
                    University, L. D. Potter, President Glendale College, R. B. Abbott, President Albert Lea College,
                    Charles N. Sims, Chancellor Syracuse University, S. A. Lattimore, Professor Chemistry Rochester
                    University, E. A. Barber, Professor in University of Nebraska, C. W. Hargitt, Professor in Syracuse
                    University, Francis A. Shoup, Professor in University of Mississippi, J. H. Martin, President
                    Moore's Hill College; Rev. T. A. Goodwin, Rev. Charles N. Sims, and Rev. Francis A. Shoup.
                ART—William M. Chase, painter; Hiram Powers, sculptor.
                SCIENCE—James B. Eads, civil engineer, constructor of the great bridge at 
                        St. Louis
                    , and of the jetties at the mouth of the Mississippi river; Amos W. Butler, ornithologist and
                    ethnologist, now Secretary of the State Board of Charities.
                MILITARY AND NAVAL OFFICERS—Gen. Lew
                    Wallace, Gen. Ambrose E. Burnside, Gen. Francis A. Shoup, Gen. Jos. E. Johnson, Gen. P. A.
                    Hackleman; Oliver H. Glisson, rear admiral, and William L. Herndon, commander, U. S. N.
                
                A few of the above, perhaps, had but slight relations with this region, but allowing for this the
                    output of able men is still remarkably large. If, from 
                        Franklin county
                    , we look northward to 
                        Connersville
                    , 
                        Centerville
                     and 
                        Richmond
                    , we find other men whose services and fame are well known within the State, and, in not
                    a few instances, far beyond its borders. In this galaxy are Oliver P. Morton, George W. Julian,
                    Oliver H. Smith, Caleb B. Smith, Charles H. Test, James Rariden, Samuel W. Parker, Samuel K.
                    Hoshour, and other men notable for calibre. Many of these were gathered at 
                        Centerville
                     during the time it was the seat of justice of 
                        Wayne county
                    , but with the removal of the courts to 
                        Richmond
                     they dispersed, a goodly proportion of them finding their way to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , beckoned thither, doubtless, by the promise of a larger field for their talents.
                The shiftings of the prominent men to and from the Whitewater are, indeed, something of an index to
                    its fluctuating fortunes. Thus, many of the more notable names of 
                        Brookville
                     were identified with it only during brief eras of prosperity induced by extraneous
                    causes, and when these lapsed those who were on the track of opportunities sought pastures new. For
                    example, one of the most flourishing periods in the history of the town began in 1820, when the
                    lands in the interior of the State as far north as the 
                        Wabash
                     were thrown open and the land office established at 
                        Brookville
                    . As all purchasers of lands in this vast new tract visited the land office not only
                    with their purchase money but with the presumable surplus of travelers, the great impetus to the
                    town's prosperity and growth may easily be conceived. For five years, fed by the visiting thousands,
                    the place throve, and the men who were drawn thither made it a political and intellectual center.
                    Then the question of removing the office to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , as a more central location, was agitated. It was bitterly opposed by 
                        Brookville
                     citizens, who had an unconcealed contempt for the little, insignificant "capital in the
                    woods," buried in miasmatic solitude and surrounded, as James Brown Ray said in one of his pompous
                    speeches, by "a boundless contiguity of shade." Nevertheless, the despised and agueridden capital
                    got the land office; the fortune-seekers of 
                        Brookville
                     betook themselves elsewhere like migrating birds, and then followed a period of sorry
                    decadence, during which houses over  town stood vacant and
                    dilapidated; all business languished; money became all but extinct, and there was a reversion to the
                    communistic method of exchanging goods for goods, or goods for labor.
                This paralysis lay on 
                        Brookville
                     and the surrounding country until the schemes for internal improvement, agitated
                    throughout the twenties and for one-half of the third decade, began to take definite and practical
                    shape. About 1833, according to Mr. T. A. Goodwin, there was a revival of life in the Whitewater;
                    people began to paint their houses and mend their fences, and deserted houses began to fill up. The
                    internal improvement act of 1836 provided for the construction of "the Whitewater Canal, commencing
                    on the west branch of the Whitewater
                    river, at the crossing of the National road, thence passing down the valley of the same
                    to the Ohio river, at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , and extending up the said west branch of the Whitewater above the National road as far
                    as may be practicable." This was a promise of commercial prosperity and a new lease of life to the
                    Whitewater region. The day that the contracts were let at 
                        Brookville
                     for building the various sections of the canal there was a grand
                    jollification—speechmaking, dinner, toasts and all the rest; and a like enthusiasm prevailed in all
                    the valley. Towns sprang up along the proposed route and lay in wait, and as the canal, crawling
                    northward, reached them successively, making one and then another the head of navigation, each
                    flourished and had its day, drawing to itself the wheat and hogs and other agricultural exports from
                    the inlying country for many miles east, north and west. This great trade, of course, always sought
                    the nearest point of shipment, and so 
                        Brookville
                    , Metamora, Laurel, 
                        Connersville
                     and 
                        Cambridge City
                     were, in turn, receiving ports and reaped the benefits of traffic. The people on the
                    east branch, not to be outdone by their neighbors on the west, also strove energetically for a canal
                    between 
                        Brookville
                     and 
                        Richmond
                     that should promote the development of this valley, and, though the work was never
                    completed, much labor and money was expended upon it.∗
                
                The old canal days are a distinct era in the history of our State. The younger generation knows
                    little about them, but many a reminiscence might be picked up of the merchant fleets of the
                    Whitewater and the idyllic journeyings up and down the 
                        
                            ∗See article in this number on the 
                                Richmond
                             and 
                                Brookville
                             Canal.
                    
                     beautiful valley by packet. This order of things, which
                    continued for about thirty years, was maintained in the face of serious discouragements, for the
                        Whitewater River, one of the
                    swiftest streams in the State, is subject to violent freshets, and these have repeatedly damaged the
                    canal, effectually stopping traffic and entailing heavy expenses in repairs. The great flood of 1847
                    all but ruined the ditch, and scarcely was this recovered from when another proved almost as
                    disastrous. Besides these checks on traffic untold thousands of dollars have been lost by the
                    sweeping away of mills and other property, and, in the opinion of many old citizens, these
                    disheartening losses has caused much of the exodus away from the valley.
                The lower part of the Whitewater valley, with 
                        Brookville
                     as its center, lies today aloof from the trunk railway lines that have been the great
                    determining factor in the development of the country. But if it lacks the bustle and growth of some
                    other, newer sections of the State, it has another and a different attraction that is rare in 
                        Indiana
                    —the attraction of great natural beauty of landscape combined with quiet idyllic charm
                    and pleasing reminders of the past. The disused bed of the old Whitewater Canal and its crumbling
                    stone locks are grown with grass. Grass grows in the peaceful thoroughfares in and about the
                    villages of Laurel and Metamora, and in these villages and in 
                        Brookville
                     quaint and weather-worn houses speak of a past generation of builders. Our artists have
                    already discovered the picturesqueness of the region, and some of Indiana's abundant literary talent
                    might well find inspiration here before it is too late. Before it is too late, we say, for in the
                    new era that is coming in, when the power of swift rivers is to be transformed into the mechanical
                    powers of progress, is it not possible that history may repeat itself along the rushing Whitewater,
                    and that the electric-driven mill and factory and electric transportation may restore to the valley
                    much of its old-time standing?
                G. S. C.
            
            
            
                The Beginning of 
                        Brookville
                    
                
                [In the many newspaper articles about 
                        Brookville
                     (a kind of history that is far from reliable, but which, unfortunately, is almost the
                    only kind we have of this famous town), there are various and discrepant statements as to the
                    founding of the place. The following, written for us by Mr. Amos W. Butler, grandson of the
                    principal founder, we submit as the most reliable account procurable—Ed.]
                AMOS Butler, a young Quaker from 
                        Chester county
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , came to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     in 1803. He selected some land in the "Big Bottoms," near Elizabethtown. The next
                    spring, upon his return from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , he found his chosen homestead under water. In the course of his prospecting in the
                    summer of 1804 he made his way along the Indian trail up the Whitewater River to the site of the present town of 
                        Brookville
                    . Greatly pleased with the beautiful region at the forks of the river he selected the
                    southeast quarter of section 20, being influenced by the fact that it had little large timber on it.
                    The second growth was doubtless that which occupied an old Indian clearing. This land was entered at
                    the land office at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , December 4, 1804, being the first entry of land within the limits of the future town
                    of 
                        Brookville
                    , and Amos Butler was the first settler of that town. That winter he busied himself with
                    plans for developing the new region. He and Jesse B. Thomas, of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , afterwards a U. S. Senator from 
                        Illinois
                    , and the author of the historic "
                        Missouri
                     Compromise," were associated together in the plan to form a new town. July 3, 1805,
                    they entered the north-west quarter of section 29. For this Mr. Butler paid the greater part of the
                    purchase money, but Thomas succeeded in having the patent issued in his name. On this land the
                    original plat of the town of 
                        Brookville
                     was laid out August 8, 1808. The sale of the lots was deferred through legal
                    proceedings taken by Amos Butler. He later agreed to a compromise settlement by which he was deeded
                    part of the land in consideration of the payments he had made. The first lot in this addition was
                    sold March 7, 1811. In the meantime John Allen, on July 6, 1805, entered the quarter-section east,
                    and Amos Butler, on March 18, 1806, entered the quarter-section north of the original plat. Both
                    these settlers laid out additions to the town, and both these additions are dated May 26, 1812.
                Mr. Butler remained at 
                        Brookville
                     until 1818, when he removed to 
                        Hanover
                    , 
                        Jefferson county
                    , and there, in a little old graveyard, is buried 
                        Brookville
                    's first settler.
                AMOS W. BUTLER.
            
            
            
                Beecher's 
                        Indianapolis
                     Church
                THIS building, which stood until recent years on the north-west corner of Circle and Market streets, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was the last of the earlier church buildings of the city. In its latter days it was
                    given over to diverse and secular uses, the varied small industries in its dingy cubby-hole rooms
                    sharing the partitioned interior with an art school and a school of music. To the younger generation
                    it was familiarly known as "Circle Hall," and most of the heedless multitude did not know that the
                    old relic had been intimately identified with the pastorate of the most brilliant and famous
                    preacher connected with the history of the town--that for seven years those venerable walls had
                    echoed to the ringing messages of the most eloquent of modern divines.
                Henry Ward Beecher came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     in 1839, in response to the call of a newly-formed congregation that had withdrawn from
                    the First Presbyterian church of this city.* The young pastor preached in the
                    county seminary for something more than a year, or until the new church built a home for itself.
                    This was the building we are speaking of, which, on October 4, 1840, was dedicated as the Second
                    Presbyterian church of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Here Mr. Beecher preached until September of 1847, when he removed to 
                        Brooklyn
                    , 
                        N. Y.
                    
                According to a newspaper sketch written when the building was razed, the cost of the church and
                    ground was $10.000. The church was built by Ephriam Colestock for $8,800--a structure of some
                    pretentions at that day, when the population of the city numbered only 2,692. It is described as
                    having, originally, lofty pillars in the front and a cupola--features that were removed when it
                    ceased to be a church.
                After Mr. Beecher's day the pulpit was occupied by the following pastors: The Rev. Clement E. Babb,
                    May 7, 1848 until January 1, 1853; the Rev. Thornton A. Mills, January 1, 1854 until February 9,
                    1857; the Rev. George P. Tindall, August 6, 1857 until September 27, 1563; the Rev. Hanford A.
                    Edson, January 17, 1864 until removal, in 1867.
                
                    
                        *The founders of the Second presbyterian church, fifteen in number, are
                        given as Bethuel F. Morns, Daniel Yandes, Luke Munsell, Lawrence M. Vance, Mary J. Vance, Sidney
                        Bates, William Eckert. Alexander H. Davidson, Robert Mitchell, J. F. Holt, M. R. Holt. John I,.
                        Ketcham. Jane Ketcham. Wm. S. Huhhard and Catherine Merrill.
                
                
                After the removal of the church to its new edifice on the corner of Vermont and Pennsylvania streets
                    the old building was used for the housing of the city's high school, then in its first days, and it
                    thus served for about three years, or until the new high school building was erected on Pennsylvania
                    street.
                Mr. William S. Hubbard, one of the first members of Mr. Beecher's congregation gives the following
                    reminiscences of the famous pastor and the old church. "I was one of the organizers of the church,"
                    he says, "and I boarded with Mr. Beecher in 1840, when he lived in a one-story brick cottage at the
                    southeast corner of New York and Pennsylvania streets, the site afterward known as Governor Morton's
                    residence. More than that, in the early days of the church, I lived next door to it, and carried the
                    key to the belfry, for there was a bell in the old pepper-box steeple, which was not only rung to
                    call people to church, but to sound the alarm of fire. That was in the days of the volunteer fire
                    department, and the 
                        Marion
                     engine company, of which I was a member, had its engine-house, within the Circle,
                    across from the church. During the Morgan raid, persons came to my house to get the keys to ring the
                    old bell and alarm the citizens as to the approaching raiders, but it was then badly cracked, and it
                    was not rung. I remember the baptism of Gen. T. A. Morris. It was in 1842, and took place in
                        White river. Several others were baptized at
                    the time, and Mr. Beecher gave choice of three modes—immersion, sprinkling or pouring."
                The late Simon Yandes said of Beecher: "He was admirably adapted to western life, entering into all
                    the social life and engagements of the little town. He had a special talent for conversation, was
                    full of wit and fun, and always had his faculties in immediate command. It was but a little while
                    after his coming until he knew everybody here. It is greatly to be doubted if he improved in his
                    oratorical style when he became older—he was probably at his best here in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . My recollection is that among his varied accomplishments he included that of being a
                    good shot with the rifle.
            
            
            
                A Word from the Publisher
                THIS number completes the first volume of the INDIANA QUARTERLY
                        MAGAZINE OF HISTORY. It was launched one year ago as an
                    experiment, and was prefaced by an article setting forth good reasons why the experiment should be
                    made. The need of a publication which should preserve material and aim to promote interest in local
                    history was unquestionable, but whether such a publication would meet a "felt want" was a thing to
                    be determined at some risk and sacrifice. The undersigned, encouraged by the friendly and
                    disinterested co-operation of Mr. W. E. Henry, the State Librarian, assumed that risk.
                The magazine has been maintained thus far at no financial profit and in the face of difficulties that
                    made impossible the editorial care that should have been bestowed upon it; hence it has been,
                    mainly, an omnium gatherum of scattered matter that seemed worthy of preservation. On the other hand
                    it has started as auspiciously, perhaps as could have been expected. It has gained some warm friends
                    who think, with the publisher, that its existence is amply justified, and that its possibilities
                    warrant its maintenance, even though it gain recognition slowly. Hence, it will be continued. Its
                    usefulness and the enlargement of its sphere will be in proportion to the support that is necessary
                    to all service that requires labor and application. The publisher asks your co-operation to the
                    extent of one or more subscriptions. With a variety of interesting unpublished matter in the way of
                    old documents and special historical studies promised him he feels safe in saying that Volume II
                    will be well worth the dollar asked for it. As the expenses of publication have to be met promptly,
                    prompt remittance from subscribers will be greatly appreciated.
                Mr. Henry's name will no longer be connected with the magazine and all communications, both business
                    and editorial, may be addressed as below.
                GEORGE S. COTTMAN. 336 North Ritter Ave., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 
                            Ind.
                        
                
            
        
        
            
            
        
    
