
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 23, Issue 2, pages 115-237. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:23+issue:2+year:1927&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Judge Elisha Mills Huntington
            THOMAS JAMES DE LA HUNT, Cannelton
            (Read before the Eighth Annual Meeting of the Southwestern Indiana Historical Society,
                    Y.W.C.A. Auditorium, 
                        Evansville
                    , February 10, 1927)
            "To make the Past present, to bring the Present near," was the avowed purpose of
                    that fascinating historian, Lord Macaulay, and this sketch makes a modest effort to throw some
                    sidelights of personality upon an honourable gentleman of the nineteenth century, an Indianian by
                    adoption and for ten years a citizen of 
                        Perry county
                    , Judge Elisha Mills Huntington, who is today only a shadowy name to those who pass
                    along busy streets cut through the once unbroken forest acreage of his riverside estate,
                    "Mistletoe Lodge," bordering the beautiful 
                        Ohio
                     northwest of Cannelton; a homestead whose site has been wholly lost through the growth
                    of Tell City, founded in 1858 by the Swiss Colonization Society, to whom he sold his property.
            Almost three hundred years have elapsed since the progenitors of the Huntington family came to 
                        America
                    , and through personal courtesy of Robert Palmer Huntington, Jr., of "Hopeland
                    House," Staatsburgh-on-the-Hudson, 
                        New York
                    , the compiler of this sketch has been informed that the church records of Roxbury, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , contain the earliest record  fo the Huntington
                    name known in 
                        New England
                    ; in the handwriting of Rev. John Eliot himself, the pastor of that ancient church. This
                    is the record, viz.: 
                        Margaret Huntington, widow, came in 1633. Her husband died by the way of the small pox. She
                            brought — children with her.
                    
            
            The husband, Simon Huntington, who died, while on the voyage to this country, of small-pox in 1633,
                    came from 
                  Norwich, England
               . Nothing is known regarding him or his family, except that a
                    brother, Samuel, was captain of the King's Life Guard and much in favor with the King,
                    Charles I of 
                        England
                    . His widow was a woman of good family, piety, and virtue, and had a valuable fortune
                    left her in money, and, not long after, she married Thomas Stoughton, of 
                  Windsor, Connecticut
               . There the good lady lived her life in affluence and comfort.
                    Their son, Simon, lived in 
                        Saybrook
                    , until 1660, when he joined the colonists who settled 
                  Norwich, Connecticut
               , and thenceforward stands among the first of that important
                    settlement, both in church and state. Soon after his removal to Norwich, he was chosen deacon of Mr.
                    Fitch's church, in which office he served with acceptance until 1696, when he was succeeded
                    by his son. In 1674, and again in 1685, he represented Norwich in the General Court. In 1690, and
                    again in 1696, he was the Townsman (Mayor).
            His son Joseph, in the year of his marriage, went, with its founders, to the new Town of Windham. He
                    was a prominent member of the first church founded there, of which he was chosen deacon in 1729. He
                    was a large land owner and prominent in business affairs.
            Nathaniel, son of Joseph, was born in 
                        Norwich
                     and was taken by his parents to 
                        Scotland
                     Society, Windham. He was a farmer and clothier.
            Eliphalet, son of Nathaniel, was a farmer in 
                        Scotland
                     Society, Windharm. He enlisted, July 13, 1775, in the First Company, 8th Regiment, 
                        Connecticut
                     Volunteers, under Col. Jedi-diah Huntington, and was discharged December 16, 1775, and
                    re-enlisted July 1st, 1778, and served until the expiration of the war.
            Nathaniel, son of Eliphalet and father of Elisha, resided in 
                        Hartford
                     until 1800, afterward in 
                  Waterford,
                            Connecticut
               . and  finally, removed to Butternuts, 
                        New York
                    . His widow lived to a very advanced age, and was "held in most affectionate
                    veneration" for her extraordinary energy of mind, her active benevolence, her cheerful
                    temper, and exemplary piety.
            Eleven generations of Huntington lineage are thus listed:
            
               
                        1. Simon Huntington, b. 1578; d. 1633; of 
                        Norwich, England
                     ; m.
                            Margaret Baret, b. 1587; d. —; believed to be dau. of Christopher Baret, mayor of
                                    
                        Norwich, England
                     , 1634.
                        Children: William, Christopher, Thomas, Simon, and Ann.
                    
               
                        2. (Dea.) Simon, b. 1629; d. 1706; of 
                                Saybrook
                            , Conn.; m. October, 1653, Sarah, dau. of John Clark of Windsor, Conn.; b. 1633;
                            d. 1721.
                        Children: Sarah, Mary, Simon, Joseph, Elizabeth, Samuel, Nathaniel, Daniel, and James.
                    
               
                        3. (Dea.) Joseph, b. Sept., 1661; d. Dec. 29, 1747; Joseph was the first of the family born
                            in 
                                Norwich
                            , Conn.; m. Nov. 28, 1687, Rebecca, dau. of Dea. Thomas Adgate and Mary (Marvin)
                            Ad-gate; b. June, 1666; d. Nov. 28, 1748.
                        Children: Joseph, Nathaniel, Jonathan, David, Solomon, Rebecca, Sarah, and Mary.
                    
               
                        4. Nathaniel, b. Sept. 1st, 1691; d. Dee. 2, 1767; m. Feb. 28, 1723, Mehetabel Thurston, of
                            Bristol, R. I.; b. June 8, 1700; d. Oct. 4, 1781.
                        Children: (Rev.) Nathaniel, Abigail, Mehetable, (Gov.) Sarnuel, (Rev.) Jonathan, (Rev.)
                            Joseph, Eliphalet, (Rev.) Enoch, and Sibyl.
                    
               
                        5. Eliphalet, b. Apr. 24, 1737; d. June 14, 1799; m. Nov. 11, 1762, Dinah Rudd, dau. of
                            Jonathan and Esther (Taylor) Rudd, of Windham, Conn.
                        Children: Nathaniel, Elijah, Sybil, James, Eunice, Jonathan, Abigail, Enoch, Martha, and
                            Lucy.
                    
               
                        6. Nathaniel, b. Aug. 3, 1763; d. 1815; m. Mary Corning, of Hart-ford. Unable to ascertain
                            date of marriage.
                        Children: Mary, Emily, Fanny, Nathaniel, George P., James, Hallam, Eliza, Elisha Mills, and
                            Mary.
                    
               
                        7. Elisha Mills, b. Mar. 27, 1806, d. Oct. 26, 1862; m. Nov. 3, 1841, Susan Mary Rudd, dau.
                            of Dr. Christopher Rudd, of 
                                Springfield
                            , Ky.; b. Jan. 8, 1820; d. Dee. 3, 1853.
                        Children: Robert Palmer, born Sept. 7, 1842; Mary St. Clair, born Aug. 13, 1844, d. Oct. 13,
                            1845; Mary Louise, born Dee. 24, 1846; Gertrude, born Sept. 8, 1848; Christopher, born July
                            11, 1850; and Hetty Key, born March 21, 1852, and died in December of the same year.
                    
               
                  8. Robert Palmer, m. Alice Ford; children: Ford, Robert P., Jr. 
                     
                        1 Samuel Huntington, Signer of the Declaration of
                            Independence.
                  
                    
               
               9. Robert Palmer, Jr., m. Helen Dinsmore; children: Helen, Robert P. 3rd, Alice.
               10. Helen, m. Vincent Astor; children: —.
            
            Elisha Mills Huntington, born March 27, 1806, at Butternuts, 
                  Otsego
                            County, New York
               , and married
                    November 3, 1841, Susan Mary (Rudd) Fitz Hugh, daughter of Dr. Christopher Rudd, of
                            
                  Springfield, Kentucky
               . She was born January 8, 1820, and died December 23, 1853.
                    Her father's family were from 
                        Maryland
                    , and were Roman Catholics. Her mother was Anne Benoist, daughter of Henry Palmer, of
                            
                  Charlestown, South Carolina
               . She was, on her father's side, related to
                    Charles Carroll of Carrollton, and through her mother's mother, who was a Caldwell, she was
                    related to John C. Calhoun of 
                        South Carolina
                    .
            
                    She was distinguished for the graces of both her mind and person, for high intellectual
                        cultivation, for the most refined and elegant tastes, as a charming pattern of wife and mother,
                        and, as the crowning beauty of her character, for her pure and humble piety. No woman was more
                        universally loved and admired, throughout the extensive circle in which she moved when living,
                        and no one was more sincerely and deeply mourned at her death.
                
            Elisha Mills Huntington early devoted himself to the study of law, and was admitted to the bar at the
                    early age of twenty-one. He had commenced preparing for college while living with his uncle, Elisha
                    Mills, of Canandaigua, 
                        New York
                    , but on the removal of his uncle, he entered, at the age of fourteen, the law office of
                    the Hon. Mark Sibley, where, for a year, he won the confidence of his employer by his fidelity to
                    the duties of the office, and for his persevering diligence out of office hours. In 1822, he came,
                    with his older brother, Nathaniel, to Indiana, where he spent four years in varied exercise and
                    travel, and reading, until he was admitted to the bar in 
                        Vigo county
                    . He was soon appointed first prosecuting attorney, by the Legislature. He then served
                    four years in the Legislature, when he was appointed president-judge of his district, and held the
                    office for four years. He was next appointed Commissioner of the General Land Office at
                            
                  Washington, District of
                            Columbia
               , and subsequently, in 1842, he was nominated by President
                    Tyler, and appointed 
                        United States
                     district judge for Indiana, making his home near 
                        Terre Haute
                    , at "
                        Fort Harrison
                    
                     Grove." having moved in 1848 to Cannelton. This office
                    he held until his death, and its duties, in the words of the Hon. Oliver H. Smith in his history of
                    Early Indiana, he "discharged to the entire satisfaction of the bar." The same
                    author gives this estimate of Judge Huntington's ability: 
                        His mind is of high order, his judgment good, and his courtesy to the bar such as to make him
                            highly esteemed by all. Long may he live, say the Bar of Indiana, one and all, so far as I
                            have ever heard.
                    
            
            The above estimate is fully sustained by a perusal of any of Judge Huntington's charges and
                    decisions. They are eminently clear, sound, and practical. Their good common sense would give them
                    weight, at once, with the court, jury, and the people. They are such as only the clear-headed
                    jurist, the inflexible judge, and the thoroughly loyal citizen would give.
            Judge Huntington was also eminently a social man, making just such a companion as any cultivated and
                    highly gifted person would choose. His attainments, all made from the impulses of his own
                    inquisitive mind, were very extensive and at ready command. He was a charming correspondent (as will
                    be shown by a letter herein quoted), and was equally fluent in conversation. His interest in his
                    family was exceedingly earnest, and it extended to the somewhat numerous family name in which he
                    felt a true kinsmanly pride. He had counted much on being present with the family at their meeting
                    in 
                        Norwich
                     in 1857, but a sudden official engagement hindered him. In a letter apologizing for the
                    disappointment, he said: 
                        I have been hoping that I should be able to meet you and a thousand more of our blood, at 
                                Norwich
                             on the 3d, according to intention. I have long desired to visit my ancestral
                            state, and to know, personally, some of the name who still linger around the homes of my
                            forefathers. That the family reunion will be a delightful occasion, I cannot doubt, and as I
                            cannot be there, I beg you to assure all those who there assemble, that nothing but the most
                            imperative reasons could keep me away.
                    
            
            In 1858 he removed from "Mistletoe Lodge" (which he had sold) to 
                        Terre Haute
                    , to spend the remainder of his life. A pulmonary disease soon obliged him to seek
                    relief in another clime. He visited 
                  St. Paul,
                            Minnesota
               , and thence went to 
                        Cuba
                    , but finding the climate of Havana too enervating, he returned immediately, much
                    weakened by the voyage. He felt  that his days were fast
                    numbering, and he only wished, as he expressed himself in failing breath, to reach home and
                    "die among my people and friends in Indiana, the people whom I love."
            Staying a short time at his pleasant home, he yearned for the pure and bracing air of the upper 
                        Minnesota
                     region and, taking his two daughters, he again sought temporary relief in 
                        St. Paul
                    . But his disease had made too deep inroads upon his strength to be arrested or helped,
                    and he died there on Sunday, October 26, 1862. His remains were taken, as he wished them to be, by
                    his nephew, John H. Rea, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , to 
                        Terre Haute
                     for interment.
            Judge Huntington's wife had preceded him to the grave nine years earlier, passing on when
                    but thirty-three, hardly at the zenith of her beauty. Known as "the fascinating Widow
                    FitzHugh "at the time of her second marriage, she has been described" as having
                    "a dazzling complexion, liquid eyes, and a distinguished bearing whose charm was famed far
                    beyond the two states of her nativity and her adoption." Mrs. Huntington added to this a
                    mental poise placing her abreast of her husband and in the front rank of Indiana's talented
                    women. In 
                        Terre Haute
                    , the Huntington home was a centre of fashionable entertainment. It was told by a
                    daughter of one of her contemporaries3 that the first formally engraved
                    invitation ever seen in 
                        Vigo county
                     was issued by Mrs. Huntington, and the grandeur of such an innovation quite set the
                    whole Wabash valley agog. So, too, in 
                        Perry county
                    , "Mistletoe Lodge" was a name to conjure with among country estates
                    bordering the Ohio river. None on either bank surpassed it in lavish
                    hospitality, princely, even when measured by Old School standards.
            A memento of her public-spirited activity is preserved in that treasure-house of priceless relics,
                    the Dale Owen home at 
                        New Harmony
                    , where many members of the Southwestern Indiana Historical Society have seen and
                    admired a magnificent silver pitcher: "Presented to Robert Dale Owen by the Women of
                    Indiana," in acknowledgment of his true and noble advocacy of their independent rights to
                    property, in the Constitutional Convention of 1850.4 It was Mrs. Huntington who
                         initiated the movement leading to this testimonial and the
                    first public appeal in its behalf is believed to have appeared in the columns of her home town
                    paper, the Cannelton Economist.5
               
            
            It is worth while to repeat the rounded sentences of the open letter thus disseminated, and to
                    enumerate its original endorsers: 
                        Deprecating the efforts of those of our sex who desire to enter the political arena, to
                            contend with men at the ballot box, or sit in our public councils; and demanding only
                            protection for the property that 
                                Providence
                             may enable us to give our daughters, protection for our sex against the
                            improvidence or the vices of weak or bad men; we tender our sincere acknowledgments to the
                            high-minded gentlemen, Delegates to the Constitutional Convention, who favored the adoption
                            of the section securing to the married women of Indiana, independent rights of property; and
                            we have determined to present to the Hon. Robert Dale Owen, its the original mover, a
                            testimonial in the form of a piece of plate, with suitable inscriptions, as a slight token
                            of our lasting gratitude.
                        That the women of Indiana, generally, may have an opportunity to contribute to this most
                            laudable object, we have limited the contribution to one dollar from each.
                        Signed: Susan M. Huntington, Cannelton; Sophia A. Hall, Princeton; Jane H. Pepper, Rising
                            Sun; Alice Reed, Bloomington; Mary E. Ellsworth, Lafayette; Louisa F. Kent, Ann E. Smith, 
                                New Albany
                            ; Nary St. C. Buell, Mary F. Lane, 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            ; Sarah T. Bolton, Mary B. West, Ann O. Morrison, P. Holmes Drake, Pauline
                            Chapman, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                    
            
            A year prior to this, Judge and Mrs. Huntington had made a summer trip east, and from a personal
                    letter written to the late Judge Charles H. Mason of Cannelton (an uncle to the compiler of these
                    biographical notes) it appears that they passed the month of August at 
                  Newport, Rhode Island
               ,
                    where the letter was dated August 15, 1849.6 While he comments freely upon how
                    the old 
                        Puritan
                     plainness of dress and equipage had "given place to the artificial and
                    ostentatious habits of European life," there is no note of cynicism anywhere. He praises
                    where praise is due.
            
               
                  2
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, November 1, 1916, Indiana. Women's Supplement, "Some
                        Phases of the Rise of Distinction Among Our Women," Miss Tarquinia L. Voss.
               
                  3
                        Ibid.
               
                  4 Pamphlet, Proceedings at the Presentation to the Hon.
                            Robert Dale Owen, etc., 28th day of May, 1851. Working Men's Institute
                        Library, 
                            New Harmony
                        .
               
                  5 Cannelton Economist, Saturday, December 22, 1850,
                        Volume II, Page 270.
               
                  6 Cannelton Economist, Saturday, September 8, 1849.
                        Volume I, Page 150.
            
            
            
                    So vast have been the improvements during the past twenty years in all modes of conveyance and
                        travel that those who have lived here and witnessed it all can scarcely tell you how the country
                        looked when they were boys. Hills have been leveled and valleys filled up, the steamer has taken
                        the place of the schooner and the locomotive of the "Jersey wagon" and
                        stage-coach. In passing from Buffalo to 
                            Albany
                         our route lay along a country with portions of which I had been familiar in my
                        boyhood.? Perhaps it was because we hurried along so rapidly that I had no time to recognize old
                        and familiar objects, but it really pained me when I found myself unable to recall a single
                        building or tree, and but a single fence in the beautiful town where I had spent five years of
                        my school-boy life, I trust it may not be so when I revisit my native valley of Unadilla whose
                        scenes are now so vividly before me. I daresay however, that I shall feel disappointed there,
                        too, when I find objects dear to the eyes of my childhood looking so different to my matured
                        vision.
                    You have heard much of what is called 
                            Western New York
                        , bat I confess I was disappointed in point of improvement, and I doubt whether it
                        is keeping up with other parts of our country, East and West. From Utica to 
                            Albany
                         the country is very picturesque and presented to my eye the appearance of more
                        rural beauty and independence than any I have seen. The valley of the Mohawk is indeed a most
                        lovely region, and I do not wonder that the Dutch who live upon its banks look upon it is the
                        Eden of the world.
                
            Conditions of steamboat travel in 1849 on the 
                        Ohio
                     or on the shallow 
                        Wabash
                     were widely different from what Judge Huntington met on the broad, deep Hudson: 
                        At 
                                Albany
                             we went from the cars to the steamer Isaac Newton, which to a western man
                            accustomed to travel on the old Hibernia, or even the Bostona, looks like an enchanted
                            palace. I certainly have never seen anything afloat so beautiful or so comfortable. In all
                            her appointments she seems to be faultless and although of immense length is managed with
                            the ease of a fishing shallop. No noise, no confusion. Before you are aware of it, she
                            glides from her wharf so gently that you are hardly conscious of it, and in ten minutes is
                            speeding toward 
                                New York
                             at a rate of fifteen or twenty miles an hour, with five hundred passengers
                            aboard of her, every one of whom
                     —here our voyager notes the difference from Indiana cordiality of
                    manner— 
                        seems intent upon his own objects, utterly indifferent to everybody else around him.
                        Just as we were leaving the wharf there happened to be a boat immediately below us, decorated
                            for a moonlight excursion down the Hudson. She was literally crowded from stem to stern with
                            flags 
                        
                           7 Canandaigua had been the scene of Judge
                                    Huntington's education.
                     
                             and streamers of every size, colour and shape. She
                            seemed to have been fitted up expressly for such purposes as pleasure parties and balls, a
                            sort of aquatic salon. The strains of a powerful band of music aboard attracted to the wharf
                            an immense concourse of people. By the time the music had faded from our listening ears, the
                            shades of evening began to steal over US, and by the time the moon rose it was time for us
                            to "turn in", and we therefore saw nothing of the beautiful scenery of the
                            classic Hudson.
                    
            
            Our observant traveler could have had no foreknowledge that he then passed a point on the
                    river's east bank, some sixty miles below 
                        Albany
                    , where his own eldest son should eventually create a home for later generations of the
                    family blood. Robert Palmer Huntington, this son, moved with his wife (Alice Ford) and their two
                    sons from Cannelton in the seventies to an estate, "Bois Doré," between
                    Rhinebeck and Staatsburgh, where his widow died in 1920. Robert Palmer Huntington, Jr. (whose son is
                    third of the name), is the owner of "Hopeland," near by, its acres adjoining those
                    of "Fern-cliffe," the old John Jacob Astor country place, and the two families
                    were united several years ago through the marriage of Helen Huntington to Vincent Astor.
            "I slept as soundly as if I had been at ‘Mistletoe Lodge,’
                    "—continues the letter—"and we reached 
                        New York
                     just in time to see the spire of Trinity Church catch the first beam of the rising
                    sun." One could wish for details of Judge Huntington's sojourn in the metropolis,
                    but he dismisses it indifferently.
            
                    As for 
                            New York
                        , let those talk and write about it who understand it. It is decidedly too large a
                        town for my taste. It is filled with all sorts of people and—if the newspapers tell
                        the truth—with all sorts of wickedness.
                
            Embarking for 
                        Newport
                     aboard the Sound steamer, Bay State, the Judge allows himself some descriptive
                    passages, a vivid word-picture not unlike what one may behold in traversing the same waters today.
            
                    Nothing can be more beautiful than the bay and harbour of 
                            New York
                         as seen from the deck of a vessel passing around from North to East
                        River. The points of attraction are innumerable. There, on the opposite side stands 
                            Jersey City
                        ; there, Hoboken, there is Castle Garden; there Fort Williams; there is Brooklyn;
                        there, a palace; there, a prison; and clustering around this immense city like a line of
                        sentinels extending for miles are vessels of every description and every nationality.
                    Off in the harbour you will see a hundred others, their white sails  wooing the breeze, some going out, others coining in from the
                        ocean. Half a mile from the Battery, like a huge Leviathan sleeping upon his native element,
                        lies a line-of-battle ship at anchor, eighty black guns peering through the frowning ports.
                        Passing Blackwell's Island, the eye will not fail to linger on palace-like prisons and
                        hospitals. A little farther on we pass Hell Gate, or "Hurl Gate," where the
                        waters foam and seethe like a boiling cauldron, then in a short time we are in Long Island
                        Sound, where we are met by a stiff breeze directly in our teeth.
                
            
               
                        Newport
                     itself elicits scant comment, beyond remarking that with the exception of the State
                    House, two or three cotton-mills and some half-dozen other edifices, the entire city is built of
                    wood.
            
                    I understand they make no brick here and the stone, being difficult to quarry and hard to work,
                        is expensive. The town has a beautiful situation for a summer resort and thousands come from the
                        neighbouring cities for pleasure, relaxation and health.
                
            Particularly amusing from the standpoint of 1927 are the criticisms of bathers and dancers. One must
                    remember that "The Age of Innocence" was in its hey-day seventy-odd years ago, and
                    hence make allowance for Judge Huntington's Early-Victorianism.
            
                    Nothing can surpass the sea-bathing here, which young and old enjoy to their hearts'
                        content. The women go in large numbers, accoutered in bathing dresses and always accompanied by
                        gentlemen—husbands, brothers and, I presume, lovers. I can't say much for
                        their costume, generally made of red flannel, with oiled-silk caps, which makes them look like
                        anything but ocean nymphs.
                
            (His Honour the Judge lived two generations too soon to appreciate the frank revelations of an
                    Annette Kellerman "one piece suit.")
            From his description of the balls he and Mrs. Huntington attended, one comes to conclude that
                    "cheek to cheek" dancing is not altogether a twentieth century innovation. He
                    calls the "old-fashioned waltz"—of which even Lord Bryon did not
                    approve—"downright prudery" compared with the now-forgotten mazurka and
                    redowa.
            
                    In good old colony times such exhibitions would have been considered an absolute abomination. Ten
                        years ago I doubt whether a modest American woman could have been persuaded to witness so
                        disgusting and indelicate a performance, but it must be borne in mind that we are living  in a progressive (?) age. You have no idea how exciting it
                        is to be a mere spectator (to say nothing of the parties engaged), to see a fashionably dressed
                        young woman, profusely painted, closely pressed to a gentleman's breast, his mustache
                        (for they must have mustaches) resting on her cheek and sometimes on her lips, racing down the
                        ball-room (the lady running backward) closely locked in each other's arms.
                    Oh. it is great! And then, to hear the whispered comments of those around the room! In whispers,
                        of course, but they are rich, and won't bear repeating exactly. I can't help
                        thinking how mortified I should have been if a lady relative of mine had been engaged in one of
                        these performances and I had overheard the comments of the spectators.
                
            How convincing this contemporary evidence that history repeats itself! We may quote "Autres
                    temps, autres moeurs!" ("Other times, other manners,") to palliate our
                    own modernism, yet shall it be said that Judge Huntington was wholly unjustified in his strictures
                    on fashionable society as he found it?
            In any ultimate test of character, every man is entitled to be judged by a jury of his peers, so that
                    the truest estimate of Judge Huntington may be formed from an oration delivered by the
                    silver-tongued Daniel W. Voorhees, "the Tall Sycamore of the 
                        Wabash
                    ," past master of eloquence in his day and generation. Following Judge
                    Huntington's death, a memorial meeting was held May 7, 1863, in the Federal Court building
                    at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . From a published report of the proceedings8 one learns that Robert
                    C. Gregory filled the chair, with John H. Rea as secretary. The committee named to present
                    resolutions of respect consisted of Thomas A. Hendricks, Joseph E. McDonald, John B. Howland, David
                    McDonald and Daniel W. Voorhees, the last-named of whom prefaced introduction of the formal
                    resolutions by a eulogy which was ordered to be spread upon records of the Federal Court.
            
                    No man ever lived for himself alone, nor drew after him into the grave when he died, the results
                        of his life. Brass and marble are enduring monuments and glowing epitaphs transmit from age to
                        age the names and meritorious deeds of those who sleep beneath them, but the perpetual influence
                        of human conduct, never ceasing until Time itself shall cease, survives all that skill and
                        affection can bring to the tomb, to rescue the dead from oblivion. We are living today in the
                        midst of 
                     
                        8 Pamphlet, Proceedings in the 
                                        United States
                                     Court in Memory of the Late Judge Huntington. Copy In possession
                                of the campiler.
                  
                         our judgments formed, our hearts touched, softened and
                        elevated, the whole current of our lives controlled and directed by the examples and the
                        influences of those whom we see no more. The accumulated influences of an endless Past. Our
                        minds are enriched,
                    These thoughts are irresistibly suggested to my mind by the position in which I stand before this
                        Court today. I rise to announce the death of one whose name and influence will be forever
                        associated with the judicial history of the country. I rise to announce the death of one who
                        contributed largely during his life to give shape and force to surrounding events, and from
                        whose grave there now springs up the enduring and beautiful light of virtuous example. Judge
                        Huntington is dead! It is a fact long known to us all, yet how mournfully the announcement
                        sounds, here in the theatre of his long career of usefulness and of fame.
                    He is dead, it is true, as it is appointed unto all once to die, but how little of man there is
                        that altogether dies. He still lives. Not only has he put on the robes of infinite existence
                        beyond the thin veil which hides him from our view, but here in this sanctuary of Justice, here
                        in the Forum of his labours he still lives and impresses his mind and character as in the days
                        of his vigorous manhood. He lives in the learning and integrity which he displayed on the Bench.
                        He lives in the decisions of his court, which stand as a monument to his wisdom and justice. He
                        lives in the pleasing recollections which we all cherish of an urbane, kind and courteous
                        gentleman. But he lives in a wider sphere than this. He has given the example of his life to
                        all—to the old for reflection and approval and to the young for study and imitation.
                        It survives and will never perish. It is so much of added treasure to the true wealth of the
                        world.
                    At a very early age Judge Huntington was left by the death of his father without the advantages
                        of paternal guidance and support. To a most intelligent mother, however, he was greatly indebted
                        during his boyhood for the promotion of those lofty traits of character which so distinguished
                        him in the days of his manhood. To her memory he paid grateful and tender tribute in every stage
                        of his career. In 1822, when sixteen years of age, he came West with his brother, Nathaniel
                        Huntington, older than himself, and settled in the county of 
                            Vigo
                         in the then new state of Indiana.
                    There the unknown boy commenced the journey of life in the midst of the same generous community
                        whose descendants laid him down to his last long sleep, and placed flowers on his honoured
                        grave. For a space of ten years he made his residence in 
                            Perry county
                         on the banks of the 
                            Ohio
                        ; but when the Angel of Death darkened his door and bore away from his hearthstone
                        the light of his home and heart, he came back and sought repose amidst the scenes of his early
                        attachments and early triumphs.
                    Judge Huntington throughout his life in an eminent degree enjoyed the public confidence. At the
                        very early age of twenty-three he was  elected Prosecuting
                        Attorney of a circuit which at that time embraced an extensive scope of country and a peculiarly
                        distinguished array of legal talent. He was equal to the position, and laid the foundation of
                        that character for clearness and just discrimination which was in after years so conceded to him
                        by the Bar of Indiana. In 1831 he was elected to the Legislature by the people of 
                            Vigo county
                        , and was twice re-elected under the most flattering circumstances. But little is
                        preserved of the legislative proceedings of that early period, but enough is known to assure to
                        Judge Huntington a high position. He took rank at once among the gifted and rising young men of
                        the state. As very strong evidence of this fact, when he retired from the Legislature he was
                        elected by that body Presiding Judge of the circuit in which he lived.
                    The period of his service as circuit judge was always a pleasant one for him to recall. He loved
                        to summon up its buried treasures of friendship, association, wit, learning and genius. The
                        incidents of the court room, the intellectual struggles of the forum, the triumphs and defeats,
                        the streams of classic eloquence shaking the rude Temple of Justice, unhappily lost to all save
                        tradition; the merry meeting of hopeful and joyous spirits at the village tavern; the ambrosial
                        nights where Curran and his contemporaries would have found congenial conversation, where the
                        Attic taste of Erskine and Sheridan would have lingered with delight over disquisitions into
                        history, poetry, the philosophy of life; all these were recalled by Judge Huntington with
                        beaming eye and a voice musical with affectionate memory.
                    He continued to act as Circuit Judge until April, 1841, when the Administration then in power
                        called him to fill the position of Commissioner of the General Land Office. This post he held
                        but a short time, however. During the year 1842 the death of Judge Jesse L. Holman left vacant
                        the office of Judge of the Federal District Court of Indiana and President Tyler tendered the
                        position to Judge Huntington, who wisely accepted it.
                    Here commenced his long, faithful and brilliant career as a judicial officer. In this capacity he
                        was principally known for more than twenty years by the people of Indiana. In this capacity his
                        mind matured, his judgment ripened, and in the conscientious and acceptable discharge of his
                        duties he reached the full measure of his ambition—tasted the full fruition of all
                        his hopes. He was but thirty-five years of age when he put on the ermine of this Court and
                        though he fell at the high noon of mental vigour and experience, yet he had worn it during an
                        ordinary lifetime of activity and labour. It was upon his shoulders when the insatiate archer
                        struck him down and it will descend to each successor, identified with his name, his character
                        and his influence.
                    Perhaps not in the 
                            United States
                         can there be found so long a line of decisions, with so few of them disturbed by a
                        higher court, as is presented here in this theatre of Judge Huntington's labours. His
                        fame as a ripe, learned and profound jurist rests upon no slight or accidental  basis. Every legal question that ever came for solution into a
                        court of justice was presented to the analysis of his mind. Every variety of interest was
                        pressed upon his judgment. A Bar second to none in the 
                            United States
                         crossed their blades in many a fierce encounter in his presence. Above him was that
                        august tribunal of ultimate resort, the Supreme Court of the 
                            United States
                        , to revise and correct its errors. It was a matter of honest and commendable pride
                        with him that, under these circumstances, he could look back upon a record of decisions almost
                        untouched by the revision of a superior court. Estimating the professional career of Judge
                        Huntington in this light, he will forever stand in the history of Indiana and in the history of
                        the Federal Judiciary as one of their brightest legal ornaments.
                    Judge Huntington was in the highest and purest sense a patriot. The love of country was to him an
                        absorbing passion. He omitted no occasion in court or elsewhere to inspire his countrymen with a
                        devotion to the government of our fathers. The Constitution was with him a sacred instrument not
                        to be broken. It was in his eyes the supreme law. There was none higher. He often from the bench
                        proclaimed his belief that our only safety as a people, our only hope for unity, peace and
                        liberty consisted in a faithful observance of the Constitution and the laws. And he died as he
                        had lived, announcing his belief in the sufficiency of the Constitution for all times and for
                        all purposes, and his hope and conviction that its benignant supremacy would once more be
                        established over a united and fraternal people.
                    May it please The Court: There is much in the life, the character and death of Judge Huntington
                        to give useful reflection. His example will not he lost. It is part of the history of the state,
                        and will be cherished by all who believe that a well-spent life is a portion of the public
                        honour. His death in the prime of his manhood is full, too, of matter for solemn and profitable
                        thought. Death has been busy, very busy, with this Court within a few short years. This court
                        room is draped in mourning to my eyes.
                    You and I, Mr. Clerk of the Court, alone remain of a once genial and happy circle. Others have
                        taken their places, and the succession is clothed with dignity, ability and honour; but who can
                        fail in the presence of these visitations of death to pause and pay the tribute of a tear to the
                        memory and virtues of those who were here but yesterday? We should be admonished, too, of the
                        fleeting and evanescent nature of life. Our stay is but for an hour, and then comes the great
                        change. How poor and painful the strife, the bitterness and the passions of the day seem when we
                        bring them close to the tomb! And we walk by its open mouth at every step of our existence.
                    Leaves have their time to fall And flowers to wither at the north wind's
                        breath, And stars to set—but all, Thou hast all seasons for thine own, O Death.
                    
                    My duty is accomplished. I have announced to this Court the death of its late presiding officer
                        and have dwelt feebly and imperfectly on the leading elements of his character, and some of the
                        more prominent incidents of his life. Much more I might say. The social circle, the domestic
                        fireside, the altar of private friendship, all render to his memory the dearest, the tenderest
                        tributes of love that were ever laid as evergreen garlands on the grave of the beloved dead. But
                        I will not draw aside the veil that makes that porton of Ife so sacred. It belongs to the
                        cherished few to whom his heart was opened with all its wealth and affection.
                    Just and learned Judge, enlightened patriot, devoted Christian, kind friend, courteous gentleman,
                        Farewell! Sacred be thy memory, and peaceful and sweet be thy slumbers!
                
         
         
         
            Methodism In Southeastern Indiana From Western Christian Advocate (Continued)
            ALLEN WILEY
            
            No. XI
            To relieve the monotony of circuit details, I will present the reader two numbers containing short
                    biographical sketches of some of the excellent of the earth, whose praise was in all the churches,
                    but the remembrance of whom is rapidly passing; unless their few remaining friends adopt some plan
                    to prevent such a result, it will not be known, in a short time, that such men ever lived, suffered,
                    labored, and were successful in planting and watering the now flourishing Methodist church in many
                    parts of the great west.
            When John Sale died, the absurd practice prevailed of making the notices in the Minutes of the deceased preachers as short as possible; hence, there are not quite five full
                    lines, in giving an account of a man who was worthy to have his life written in extenso. Some years
                    after, his friend Moses Crume, gave a short account of him. In these brief notices, we have all the
                    information extant of a pioneer of Methodism in many parts of his early travels in the west.
            Sale was a Virginian by birth and education. When a youth, he became religious, and joined the then
                    feeble and despised Methodist Episcopal church. At what age he became a preacher, I have no means of
                    ascertaining; but from the Minutes it will be seen he was received on trial in
                    1796. The names of districts were not then given as now; but from the names of the first three
                    circuits which he traveled, I infer he traveled most of the time in 
                        North Carolina
                     and 
                        Virginia
                    , mostly, however, the former. From the name of his fourth circuit, I suppose it was in 
                        western Virginia
                    . In 1800, he is found on Salt river and 
                        Shelby
                     in 
                        Kentucky
                    , where he traveled until the meeting of conference in May, 1801, when he  was reappointed to the same work, where he traveled until the next
                    conference, which met in October in the same year. From this time onward, the Western conference
                    uniformly met in autumn. At the fall conference in 1801, he was appointed to Danville in the same
                    state, and in 1802 to Scioto in 
                        Ohio
                    , embracing much of the centre of the state. In 1803, I find him appointed to the 
                        Miami
                     circuit, named after the 
                        Miami
                     country in general, but after the Little Miami in particular. The circuit embraced all
                    that section of country east of the 
                        Great Miami
                    , and west of the country dividing between the Scioto and
                        Miami valleys, and north from the Ohio river as far as
                    there were any settlements, which must have been as far as the Mad river
                    country. In 1804, he was sent to 
                        Lexington
                     circuit, 
                        Kentucky
                    . This year closed his circuit labors for eleven successive years, as he was made
                    presiding elder in the fall of 1805, and sent to the 
                        Ohio
                     district, which embraced a part of 
                        Virginia
                     and all the settled part of 
                        Ohio
                    , except that part west of the 
                        Great Miami
                    , which had no regular Methodist preaching until the spring of 1806, when it and the
                    east of Indiana were added to his extensive field of labor, which he continued to travel for three
                    successive years. In 1808, the district was divided, and the western part called 
                        Miami
                     district, on which he remained two years. It seems the superintendents were not as
                    strict then as they are now in the construction of law; for the 
                        Miami
                     district was wholly in the same territory which he had traveled three years preceding,
                    except White Water circuit, which was added the second year, so that he traveled the same work five
                    years, with the exception of one circuit. Sometime, while on the 
                        Ohio
                     district, he married, and became the first married traveling preacher which we ever
                    knew in these western regions, unless William Burke was an exception. The next four years found him
                    on the 
                        Kentucky
                     district, when he had to travel from near Xenia, where his family lived, some fifty
                    miles or more, to reach the nearest part of his work. The next two years, he was on the 
                        Miami
                     district again, partly in 
                        Ohio
                     and partly in Indiana. In 1816, he was sent to 
                        Union
                     circuit, where has family lived. The circuit embraced 
                  Lebanon, Dayton
               , Xenia, and the
                    adjacent country, and had been unwisely named after a meeting-house  of that name. I say, unwisely, because the name designates no one place
                    in the whole world more than another; the names of circuits, we think, should always designate the
                    particular place. The following year, he was on Mad river, not far from home.
                    In 1818, he was again placed on 
                        Miami
                     district; and at the ensuing conference, he was superannuated, and so remained for five
                    years. In 1824, he was appointed to Wilmington circuit; and the next year to 
                        Union
                     again; and in 1826, to Piqua, where he ended his long and useful labors in the
                    following winter. He traveled four years in 
                        North Carolina
                     and 
                        Virginia
                    , seven and a half in 
                        Kentucky
                    , seven and a quarter in 
                        Ohio
                    , seven partly in 
                        Ohio
                     and partly in Indiana, and was five years superannuated, making in all thirty years and
                    three-quarters from the time he was received on trial until his happy—his
                    triumphant—death.
            Any person who will look on the fields of his labor, and consider the physical, intellectual, and
                    moral state of the country in which he traveled for many years, must be convinced he was in many
                    perils and abundant labors; but he shrunk not from any peril, toil, privation, or suffering, while
                    he was able to travel and preach, and be the pastor of the flock.
            I will now present a few traits of this man of God. In person, he was more than medium size, being
                    heavily built, a little inclined to corpulency. He was very neat in his dress, being equally removed
                    from the fop on the one hand, and the sloven on the other. I never saw his habitation, but I presume
                    he carried out the lines quoted by Mr. Wesley.
            
                    Let thy mind's sweetness have its operation, On thy person, clothes, and habitation.
                
            He possessed at large share of good, strong common sense, much improved by reading and observation,
                    so that he was a safe counsellor to his junior brethren, and the conferences of which he was a
                    member. The piety of this brother was deep and uniform through his whole course. In his preaching,
                    there was very little uniformity. Sometimes he was very dry and uninteresting; but at other times he
                    was sprightly, able, vigorous, and powerful. Often on Saturday at quarterly meetings,  he would preach on the numerous and various duties of religion,
                    sometimes with animation, but mostly in a phlegmatic manner. On the Sabbath his sermons mere more
                    doctrinal and experimental, and much more elevated in thought and language, and much more powerful
                    in their effect on a large and mixed audience. At some times in his life there were manifested
                    uncommon displays of divine power through the instrumentality of his ministry. I once heard Brother
                    Strange make the following statement, which he received from Brother Sale himself. He was preaching,
                    and some began to scream aloud for mercy, and others to shout for joy, which seemed to him a
                    violation of that decorum and order, which should characterize the worship and service of God. He
                    was going to rebuke the persons deemed disorderly with as much severity as Joshua desired Moses to
                    rebuke Eldad and Medad; but, just at that moment, such a divine influence came upon him, that he had
                    well-nigh fallen prostrate, and his heart was filled with as much emotion as his hearers, and he
                    never afterward dared to interfere with Heaven's method of working on men's minds
                    and hearts. He, however, always had such a reverence for God, and religion, and such a regard for
                    the decencies of public worship that he would not suffer anything which was manifestly enthusiastic
                    or extravagant in religious assemblies to pass without rebuke, and endeavors to correct it, and
                    separate the precious from the vile. His nice sense of propriety induced him to keep the very best
                    order at the meetings superintended by him.
            His long experience and close observation enabled him to understand the general economy and details
                    of the Discipline of his church most accurately; and his conscientious regard for
                    his duties and the welfare of the church influenced him to do what he could to carry that economy
                    and Discipline into full effect. The consequence was, that some, among the
                    preachers and people, thought him too precise; but the more enlightened and upright were pleased
                    with him; for they felt sure the administration was safe in his hands. Such was the confidence of
                    the superintendents in him, that when the presiding bishop (either Asbury or M'Kendree) was
                    prevented by affliction from reaching the seat of the conference to which  Sale belonged, he sent a letter appointing him president for the time.
            He was eminently a peacemaker. For several years between 1810 and 1820, there was a most fierce and
                    unpleasant controversy among Methodist preachers, concerning infant purity on the one hand, and
                    innate depravity on the other. The preachers and people of the present day can form no estimation of
                    the asperity of feeling and language which prevailed in those days of bitter waters, even among good
                    men and able ministers. When I look back, it seems to me little less than a miracle that the church
                    was not rent into a thousand fragments. God, however, overruled the storm; and the consequence has
                    been, that the native depravity of the human heart has ceased to be doubted and controverted by
                    Methodist ministers and people; and perhaps there never was a more general agreement on any point of
                    doctrine, than that which now exists in the Methodist Episcopal church on the subject then
                    controverted. Now all the metaphysical trash, started by Pelagian or semi-Pelagian nonsense, whether
                    by the instrumentality of Unitarians, or Universalists of all sorts, or the new divinity men of
                    modern days, with their absurdity of natural ability, but moral inability, has not moved the weakest
                    among us, unless they had previously backslidden. In all the boisterous days to which I have
                    referred, Sale, although firmly believing in man's inherent depravity, was always the kind
                    and zealous peacemaker between his brethren. If any of them expressed ultra views, or used harsh
                    expressions, he would in a most kind spirit and bland manner, urge them to forbear such views and
                    expressions as were calculated to give offence, or wound the feelings of their brethren.
            Perhaps Methodism in much of 
                        Ohio
                     and eastern Indiana, is more indebted to John Sale for its symmetry and beauty than to
                    any one man on earth, or in heaven. 
                        Providence
                     placed him in this field just at the time when the minds of many young men were to be
                    trained; and through them the church was to be molded. Had he been a ranting, extravagant and
                    eccentric preacher, or a lukewarm drone, or a rash or careless disciplinarian, it does not require
                    much penetration to see what would have been the result to the young church in  the wilderness. She would have been marred in the outset, and crippled
                    in her influence; and instead of being, as she now is, the most numerous, active, and influential,
                    she would have been a sickly dwarf that could scarcely live and could do no good. Many of the young
                    preachers who never knew Sale, and his coadjutors, and scarcely ever heard of them, are much
                    indebted to them. If there never had been the mind and heart of Susanna Wesley, there never would
                    have been the minds and hearts of John and Charles Wesley; so that the millions of Methodists now on
                    earth and in heaven would never have been known as a religious denomination; but who realizes the
                    connection of these millions with the mind and heart of the mother of their founders? Though none
                    realize this connection of the excellent ministry of the man, whom I am endeavoring to portray, with
                    modern, western Methodism.
            Notwithstanding literary and intelligent, but Calvinistic and prejudiced 
                        New England
                     was slow to receive Methodism, yet such an apostolic man as Jesse Lee could not labor
                    in vain, even in 
                        New England
                     especially when he had truth on his side; so that "the land of steady
                    habits" could not withstand the blaze of Gospel day. The doctrines of a general atonement,
                    and the sincere tender of salvation to all men, are so Godlike, that they cannot be rejected by the
                    thinking and inquiring, unless the prejudice of education present a barrier, as it did in that
                    country. Had 
                        New England
                     been visited with the truths of Methodism at an earlier day, and had she cordially
                    embraced them Unitarianism and Universalism would not well-nigh have dismantled her glory, as has
                    been the case in many of her strongholds, civil, literary and religious. Some of the early
                    achievements of Methodism in that country were among eminent and talented families. Among those
                    families one was by the name of Langdon, and three of them became preachers who came to the west. I
                    had a partial acquaintance with John, who died some years since: a short notice of him appeared in
                    the Western Christian Advocate written by his son-in-law, Brother Reeder, of the 
                        Ohio
                     conference. Oliver, another preacher, I never knew; but from all I have heard, he was a
                    man of talents. My acquaintance with Solomon lasted  several
                    years; and as no notice was taken of him in the Minutes, because he had located
                    before his death, and as we then had no Advocates in which to hand down the memory
                    of our local brethren, I deem it proper to notice, in these numbers, a man of the standing and worth
                    of Solomon Langdon.
            Where, in 
                        New England
                    , and at what time he was born, I am not informed; and I do not deem these matters of
                    much importance. I find him admitted on trial into the traveling connection in 1800, and appointed
                    to 
                        Warren
                     and Greenwich; in 1801 to Provincetown; in 1802, Vershire; and in 1503, Landaff. In
                    1804, I find him among the supernumerary preachers, but cannot find him appointed to any work,
                    neither can I find when he was ordained elder. In 1805, he located. The next information in the Minutes is in the fall of 1807, when he was appointed to Muskingum and Little
                    Kanawha; in 1808, to Marietta; and 1809, to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . In the fall of 1810, he was placed on the 
                        Miami
                     district partly in 
                        Ohio
                     and partly in Indiana, where he remained three years; and in the fall of 1813 he
                    located again.
            After his location, he and others formed a partnership, and entered into the mercantile business,
                    which he pursued until 1817, when he died with a very short sickness. When I first heard of his
                    death, it shocked me very much; for I was much attached to the man; but on a moment's
                    reflection it struck me that he was taken away from the evil to come; for I was confident that no
                    man ought to sell goods, however lawful and honorable it may be, who had not more family charge than
                    he had, and who possessed such noble talents to serve the church. I was told that when his wife,
                    just before he died, asked him, with great anxiety, what his prospects were, he informed her, that
                    there was a way cast up for the redeemed of the Lord to pass over, and gave her to understand that
                    that way would avail for him. I trust he has been the last twenty-eight years in the paradise of
                    God.
            According to the Minutes, he traveled four years or more in 
                        New England
                    , three in 
                        Ohio
                    , and three in 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana, ten or more in all. I say ten or more for I suppose he traveled in 1804,
                    but where I have no information.
            
            Solomon Langdon was a tall, noble man in appearance. He was a man of great gravity and dignity in all
                    his ministrations, whether in prayer preaching, exhortation, administering ordinances, or presiding
                    in quarterly meeting conferences. In the social circle, he was very cheerful and sweet spirited, but
                    still grave, and always calculated to recommend religion. I have been told, that when he was with a
                    few confidential social friends, in the perfect undress of confidence, he was somewhat facetious,
                    but never given to that levity which is sinful and destructive to piety. Surely if angels could
                    weep, it would be to see a professed minister of the weeping and suffering Jesus using such phrases
                    and telling such ludicrous anecdotes as will fill the hearts of the company with levity, and their
                    mouths with obstreperous laughter. Such a course as this could not be pursued by the thoughtful and
                    prayerful Solomon Langdon.
            In leading the devotions of the family or the multitude, he was very gifted and impressive. As a
                    preacher, he was far above mediocrity. His texts were always such as would lead him to investigate
                    the great leading doctrines of the Gospel, the genuine and deep experience of Christianity and the
                    duties of our holy religion. His sermons were well studied and systematically arranged, but
                    delivered in that free and easy extemporaneous style which prevented them from being stiff and dry.
                    They were so lucid that they would penetrate the understanding of every man who would listen to him,
                    and his solemn and impressive manner almost always fixed the attention of the most listless in his
                    audience. Such was the unction which attended his preaching, that all the thoughtful felt as if they
                    would be wiser and better; but it was seldom that there was any jumping, or shouting, or even loud
                    weeping among the people when he preached; but their tears would rise and flow as the most gentle
                    shower, on a still and soft day, when you would have to look out at the door or window to know that
                    the rain was falling. When he administered the ordinances, you would think of Jesus and his
                    apostles, and almost think you were attending a primitive baptism, or sacrament, such was the
                    impressive solemnity of his spirit. For his manner of presiding in quarterly conferences, I will
                    refer  the reader to a former number, in which mention is made
                    of a camp meeting held near Four Mile creek in 1811. Ah, lovely man! He ought not to have located
                    until compelled to it by the hand of death; for he had no family but an interesting wife, who is now
                    the widow of Dr. Bishop, and who still lives in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Her business habits were such that she could have sustained herself with ease in those
                    days in which Methodist preachers could hardly live at all, if they had families, and had no means
                    of their own. I have always supposed he might have lived many years longer, if he had remained in
                    the regular work for which he was so admirably fitted; but of this we can have no certain knowledge.
            Langdon was a very fit successor for the excellent Sale; for although there was hardly anything in
                    which they were similar, except their good sense and piety, they were both men well calculated to
                    give stability and perpetuity to the young and tender plant of Methodism just being reared in this
                    now populous, fertile, and Methodistic country.
            Eternity alone will unfold how much good Langdon's mild and Christian spirit did the church,
                    when war began to drench the land in human gore, and to deluge it with rapine, fraud, profanity, and
                    Sabbath-breaking. He fully believed the 
                        United States
                     were justifiable in going to war (1812); but he did not believe her people ought to
                    become incarnate devils, in order that they might defend their right; hence, he did all he could by
                    prayer, preaching, and exhortation, to keep up a mild and Christian spirit in the land; and great
                    was his success, for bad as many were, they would have been worse without such salutary restraints
                    as these.
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , December 12, 1845.
            No. XII
            Moses Crume was a native of 
                        Virginia
                    . He was awakened and converted in 
                  Shenandoah
                        county, Virginia
               , in 1785. I think
                    it probable that he was born and reared in that part of the state; for I have heard him tell of his
                    trembling under the thundering preaching of my grandfather Wiley, who was a Baptist preacher in the
                    adjoining county, Frederick. Some-time  between his conversion
                    and 1793, he moved to 
                        Kentucky
                    ; for his first license to preach, as a local preacher, is dated 
                  Nelson county, Kentucky
               , in the year last named. He lived some years in that state; for I
                    think I read in Asbury's Journal, that he ordained him deacon in one of
                    his tours in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Sometime before 1806, but I know not how long, he moved to 
                  Butler county, Ohio
               , and settled on Cotton Run, seven or eight miles northwest from 
                        Hamilton
                    . He remained a respectable local preacher, and labored much and extensively until the
                    fall of 1808, when he was received on trial into the traveling connection, and appointed to White
                    Water circuit, according to the Minutes, with Hector Sandford; but I know he did
                    not travel White Water that year, but a young man by the name of Saint Clair, who was appointed to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . I suppose, as I have stated in a former number, that the bishop, or presiding elder,
                    changed him and Saint Clair immediately after the conference. In the fall of 1809, he was appointed
                    to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , with Solomon Langdon, and a young man by the name of Nelson in charge of White Water;
                    but after Nelson had gone one round, he was removed, and Crume came in his place, and remained the
                    remainder of that year and the next, when he left and went to Mad river and
                    Xenia. In 1812, he was placed on 
                        Oxford
                     circuit, a part of the old White Water circuit. The next year, he was sent to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit, which was also a part of White Water circuit when he and Thompson traveled it
                    four years before. His appointment in 1814 was 
                        Union
                    , and the next year Mad river again. In 1816 and 1817, he was
                    presiding elder on 
                        Miami
                     district; and in 1818, he went to 
                        Lebanon
                     district. In the course of this year, he had a very severe and protracted time of
                    sickness, which brought him near the gates of death. This sickness left him much prostrated; so that
                    the conference in 1819 superannuated him. His health having improved he was sent to 
                        Miami
                     circuit in the fall of 1820. This circuit embraced all the country between the two
                    Miamies, except 
                        Cincinnati
                    , twenty-five miles back from the Ohio river. The next year, he was
                    sent to 
                        Oxford
                     again; and in 1822, he was sent as a supernumerary to Greenville, a new and large
                    circuit, which closed his regular itinerant life; for the next fall he  was superannuated, and so remained more than sixteen years, until his
                    death in 1839. Although his death was somewhat sudden and painful, he was prepared for it, and
                    willing to go at his Master's bidding. From the preceding statements it will be seen, that
                    Moses Crume traveled over the country from 
                        Madison
                    , in Indiana on the southwest to or above 
                        Urbana
                     on the northeast, and to or beyond the Little Miami on the east, and to the then
                    frontier settlements in Indiana on the west, being a region more than one hundred and fifty miles
                    long, and nearly one hundred broad, when much of the country was new and comparatively a wilderness,
                    consequently his privations and sufferings were many. He left a good home and farm on which he could
                    have made a fortune for himself and family, to receive the small pittance which was then paid
                    Methodist preachers, which would not pay the extra repairs on his farm, in consequence of his
                    absence. But had not he and others made the sacrifices, and endured the privations which they did,
                    we of the present day would not have had the comparatively pleasant fields which we are now called
                    to cultivate; for other men have labored, and we have entered into their labors. Crume was a man of
                    great personal dignity, being large and portly, with a most grave and benevolent countenance. So far
                    as we can form an opinion of men's appearance from their portraits, I should judge from all
                    I have seen of General Washington, that our brother greatly resembled him in person and features;
                    and he was not unlike him in the good qualities of the heart; and if circumstances had required, he
                    would not have been much inferior to him in firmness and courage; but it is presumed he did not
                    possess the copious understanding and very correct and superior judgment which characterized the
                    General, though there were but few who surpassed Crume in these important endowments. He was never a
                    very popular preacher; but his want of popularity was not owing to any deficiency in the head or
                    heart but to a want of energy in his voice and delivery. Many of his sermons were very phlegmatic in
                    their delivery, but always sound and good in their matter. Most persons know what a drawback the
                    defects named are to really good sermons. Hence, will the multitude, this man never passed for his
                    real  worth. Even the truly intelligent sometimes underrated
                    him. When the beloved Bigelow and the writer traveled 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit, in 1816 and 1517, Crume was our presiding elder. His worth was known to the
                    writer from long acquaintance, but not so with Bigelow who had only seen him at conferences, and
                    knew but little of the man; consequently, he judged his attainments merely by his pulpit
                    performances; and the conclusions was, the presiding elder was hardly a medium man. The next two
                    years Bigelow was on 
                        Oxford
                     circuit, in which Crume lived, and Bigelow and his family lived in a part of
                    Crume's house, which gave Bigelow an ample opportunity to form an intimate acquaintance; so
                    that he was prepared to judge more correctly concerning the man's mind and acquisitions.
                    The result was, that Bigelow was convinced that Crume was a very superior man. His statement to me
                    was (to the best of my recollection), in the following words: 
                        I have been greatly mistaken in brother Crume, and have underrated him very much. I can start
                            no question in theology, however new and abstruse to myself and others, but I find Crume has
                            thoroughly studied it, and appears to be perfectly at home in it; and I am fully satisfied
                            he is the most able divine in the 
                                Ohio
                             conference; and it is the greatest cross to me to preach before him of any man
                            in the world.
                    
            
            Every man who knew Bigelow, and his capability of judging correctly, will know what estimate to place
                    on his honest declaration. It should be recollected that circumstances had much to do in making our
                    pioneer fathers what they were, in many respects. They found the country in the hands of others, who
                    had given the public mind a wrong bias on many points of doctrine, and who were disposed to maintain
                    their previous occupancy of the public mind by all the means in their power. Hence, the necessity of
                    accurate knowledge on the part of Methodist preachers, that they might be able to compete with their
                    avowed and untiring antagonists. The country did not abound in books of all sorts as now; and the
                    consequence was, the Bible had to be studied with a diligence and earnestness seldom known, it is to
                    be feared, in the present clay. When I first knew Crume, he carried Canno's marginal Bible,
                    which had been the property of William Burke, and was full of pen marks from the beginning of
                    Genesis to the end of Revelation, pointing out the important passages  which had a bearing on the most important points of Bible theology.
                    Four years since, I saw a Bible which had been the property of Jesse Lee, which was marked in the
                    same way. These statements will enable the young men of the present age to learn how it was, that
                    with not the fiftieth part of the helps now enjoyed, our fathers became such giants in divinity.
                    Many of them not only read, studied, and marked their Bibles, but they did these things on their
                    knees in the woods, in humble prayer to almighty God that he would, by His Spirit, teach them
                    knowledge in His word and ways. Crume was one of the best textuaries I ever knew; and he informed me
                    that he remembered the Scriptures more accurately from what he read before he was seven years old
                    than from all his subsequent reading. I have stated the manner in which Crume, Burke, Lee, and
                    others read and studied their Bibles; and they had immediate and daily use for all they learned; for
                    almost every man they met was ready to war on Methodism. It is not to be supposed that such praying
                    Bible students as those men were, could be foiled by any Protean forms of subtile error. No, no, but
                    error had to quail before them, until their doctrines had become the general doctrines of the land;
                    and the present prospect is, that all antagonistic doctrine will yield to them, and even their
                    usages have gained an ascendency in the public mind, which it will be hard to displace. Some modern
                    reformers have undertaken not only to reform other churches, but also the religion of the Bible.
                    They have been zealous in forming many congregations, and in building many good churches, but they
                    will have to reform themselves into good orthodox Christians, or Methodism will do this work for
                    them, if we possess the Bible knowledge and zeal which our fathers had.
            I might give many particular and interesting traits in the characters of Crume and others; but the
                    nature of my undertaking will permit nothing more than a few generalities in most cases. In all the
                    relations of life, this brother was amiable and kind. As a husband, he was a pattern of dignified
                    and affectionate kindness. There was none of that sick sentimentality about him which some exhibit;
                    but all that was possessed and properly manifested by him. As a father he  was kind and indulgent, to a degree perhaps somewhat faulty; but his
                    children reverenced and respected him greatly. As an aged minister, he was most condescending and
                    kind to his junior brethren in the ministry. The writer is under more obligation to be grateful to
                    this man that to all other men living or dead, his own father excepted, and even he is not an
                    exception as far as religion is concerned. Crume received him into church, gave him his first
                    license to exhort, had him made circuit steward, was preacher in charge when he was licensed to
                    preach and procured his reception and election to orders, and was his kind presiding elder the
                    ensuing two years. Such was his timidity and backwardness, that if he had not fallen into the hands
                    of this kind man, now with God, he doubts whether he would ever have been anything more than an
                    obscure, private member of the church, and perhaps not even that. In view of all these facts, if his
                    heart should ever cease to cherish fond recollections of his friend and early guide, let his right
                    hand forget its cunning. Many others could say that Moses Crume was to them a tender father and kind
                    guide in the way to heaven. Everything in Methodism—doctrine, discipline, or usage, was
                    most sacredly loved and cherished by him. He loved his brethren with a pure heart fervently, and
                    endeavored to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bonds of peace. It is presumed he seldom, or
                    never, had a difficulty with any man on his own account, in his life; but a sense of official
                    obligation compelled him to come in painful collision sometimes with men who were trying to
                    prostrate his beloved church. In those cases where the interests of the church were concerned,
                    whether he were preacher in charge of a circuit, or presiding elder, he knew no man, high or low,
                    but was firmly at his post to defend what he believed to be the cause of God, against all
                    encroachments, whether open or insidious. Hence, the refractory, or the innovating, never liked him,
                    nor gave him the praise due to his talents and fidelity. Under God Methodism in southwest 
                        Ohio
                     and southeast Indiana owes him much, and is under a heavy debt of gratitude to him. May
                    she not forget this.
            
            Although most of the early Methodist preachers of the west were from the older parts of the country,
                    many of the early seals to their ministry were called to the holy work of urging forward the benign
                    and heavenly cause of human salvation. Many of these early converts being young men, who were inured
                    to the climate and habits of the west, were well fitted for this western frontier work. If I am
                    correctly informed even Jacob Young, now among the very old and venerable men of the 
                        Ohio
                     conference was converted in 
                        Kentucky
                    , as was Oglesby and others.
            The one, however, that I now wish to bring before the public, is Samuel H. Thompson of a respectable
                    family that had moved from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and settled in the lower part of 
                        Kentucky
                    . In the very flower of youth and vigor of manhood, he became an itinerant preacher,
                    being received by the Western conference in the fall of 1809, and appointed to White Water circuit,
                    described in some preceding numbers of this series. His connection with the itinerancy was about
                    thirty-two and a half years. His first circuit embraced a small portion of 
                        Ohio
                    . His other fields were in 
                  Kentucky,
                            Tennessee
               , Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        Missouri
                    . Eleven years he traveled circuits, and they generally large ones. Thirteen years he
                    was on districts, some of them very large; one in particular, embracing all the settled part of 
                        Illinois
                     and a large share of Indiana. Reader, just think of a district extending from the 
                        Mississippi
                     at 
                        St. Louis
                     to the Falls of 
                        Ohio
                    ! Three years in stations: one a missionary; one an agent for a seminary; three years
                    and upward superannuated. One year in 
                        Kentucky
                    ; three in 
                        Tennessee
                    ; four in 
                        Missouri
                    ; twenty and upward in 
                        Illinois
                    , but sometimes embracing large portions of Indiana, which were in the 
                        Illinois
                     district. If any man will take the Minutes and trace out his fields
                    of labor, as I have done, he will see that this man covered as much ground as almost any one, except
                    the superintendents, in his travels. The superintendents, however, pass transiently over the ground,
                    but do not remain to cultivate it, as Brother Thompson did. I do not make this statement to intimate
                    that the superintendents have light work compared with many other,  but to show that their labors are not harder than were the labors of
                    this brother. Behold him in 1809 and 1810, a young man, with rosy cheeks, and perhaps a sad heart,
                    leaving father, mother, and home, and traveling up the west side of the 
                        Great Miami
                    , nearly or quite as far north as where the National Road now is, then across to the
                    White Water country northwest of the present town or city of 
                        Richmond
                    , then down the East Fork to 
                        Brookville
                    , thence down the main river to the Big Bottom and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , then down among the hills and creeks nearly to where 
                        Vevay
                     now is, and up again to the place of beginning, and you will see he was not a young man
                    living at ease, and seeking pleasure. Then go with him to 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     for four years; then bound with him over the father of waters to the frontiers of 
                        Missouri
                    , as early as 1814 and 1815, in time of war, when the Indian's scalping-knife
                    and tomahawk were in active use; then go with him to 
                        Illinois
                    , where it is no difficult matter to freeze a man and even a horse to death, in the
                    winter time, in the extended and bleak prairies; and follow him four years to all the settled parts
                    of that territory, and much of Indiana; then back again to 
                        Missouri
                    ; and then to 
                        Illinois
                     again; and you will not say he was wanting in untiring zeal, energy, and perseverance.
                    To pursue such a course as this for more than thirty-two years, except when bad health rendered it
                    impossible, proves that his heart was in the work.
            Brother Thompson was not what is generally understood by the phrase, a great or strong preacher. His
                    sermons did not exhibit a great profundity of thought or laborious research; but they were not
                    wanting in good, common sense; and were calculated to accomplish the object of preaching, the
                    conversion of souls. His great aim was to produce present impressions, which might result in the
                    awakening and salvation of his hearers and he seldom failed to accomplish his design. When I first
                    knew him in 1809 and 1810, he was subject to great extremes of feeling. Sometimes he would become so
                    gloomy and discouraged, that he could hardly preach at all. At other times, he would have great
                    enlargement of soul; and then he would preach with animation and  success. I suppose he never traveled any field of labor without leaving more or less souls
                    converted to God. He had an endless store of anecdotes, which he used to great advantage and with
                    much success. So much did he abound in relating these, that sometimes some of his brethren would say
                    humorously, the latter heads of his sermons were all tales, playing on the sound of the word tale.
                    Such was his aptness for that kind of preaching, and its success in doing good, that I think he was
                    justified in pursuing it. As a general rule, I think such a course should be shunned on many
                    accounts. To me there is one reason all-sufficient against such a course, and that is, I doubt the
                    verity of ninety-nine out of the hundred of the anecdotes which we read in books, or hear orally,
                    for they are almost all apocryphal.
            Perhaps no minister has died in these western regions, who had more spiritual children gone before
                    him, to welcome him into everlasting habitations, or to follow after him than Samuel H. Thompson. He
                    was successful, because he aimed and labored in direct reference to that end. The conversion of
                    souls was the beginning, middle and end, with him, in all he did. Popularity was not a prominent
                    object with him; but such was his affability and kindness, that popularity followed him wherever he
                    went. It was not merely with the superficial crowd that he was popular, but with the high as well as
                    the low. When his health failed, such was the regard all parties had for him that they united in
                    recommending him to the national executive for an appointment to the land office, which was in his
                    section of the state; and he obtained the appointment, when it was distinctly known, that he
                    differed in his political views and preferences from a large majority of the people of his state,
                    and the administration which gave him the appointment. Indeed, hardly any man would have sought the
                    place, if he knew that Brother Thompson wanted it. I name this fact to show how he stood with the
                    public where he had been long well known. He' was also popular with the members of his
                    conference, by whom he was often elected as one of their delegates to the General conference. This
                    popularity was the more remarkable on account of  its being
                    general and long continued, notwithstanding he not unfrequently ran across the feelings of his
                    brethren in the earnestness of debate. He was a man who had a high sense of honor and propriety,
                    which made him sometimes painfully sensitive; and being very impulsive, he would wound the feelings
                    of his best friends when excited; but such was the kindness of his heart and conciliatory manner,
                    that all unpleasant feelings would soon pass away; for all believed him to be an honest man, 
                        who bore anger like the flint bears fire. which, being much enforced, shows a hasty spark,
                            and straight is cold again;
                     and all honest men would rather be rebuked by an honest man than be flattered and praised
                    by a knave or one suspected to be such.
            How well he understood the economy and Discipline of the church, and how able and
                    judicious he was in his administration, I have no other means of knowing than what may be inferred
                    from the length of time he filled the most important offices to which the appointing power could
                    promote him. Methodism in 
                        Illinois
                     received much of its character from him; and although he is now dead, his influence is
                    yet felt, and will be for many years to come. In searching the Minutes to trace
                    Brother Thompson's travels, I learned a fact which I had not before noticed in the history
                    of Thomas Hellums, before noticed in these numbers. Hellums was readmitted into the traveling
                    connection in 1818, and appointed to Shoal creek, as Brother Thompson's colleague; but the
                    next fall he located again.
            If our people generally had the Minutes, I need not have said so much about Brother
                    Thompson as I have, as there is an interesting account of him in the Minutes for
                    the year 1843. I would refer the reader to that account for some things which I have omitted. I feel
                    a more lively interest in this brother, because he was on the circuit when I joined the church, and
                    held the love feast when I was converted; but a local preacher by the name of David Penwell was
                    engaged in prayer at the close of the meeting when the blessing came.
            
            Penwell was powerfully awakened in 
                        New Jersey
                     while walking alone in the high road. As quick as lightning these words, "Ye
                    know not the time", rushed through his mind and heart with a thrilling energy and for three
                    weeks he walked the earth in the utmost terror; for it seemed to him in the anguish caused by a
                    sense of guilt, that the earth had but a thin crust, and all beneath was a fiery hell, and that
                    every step he must plunge into it. At the end of the time named, God pardoned his sins, and
                    powerfully converted him, and he became a local preacher of respectable talents, and more than
                    ordinary success. When I knew him, he was a man of poor health, and many ups and downs in his
                    feelings, and of many changes in his religious views. In his better days, he was popular and useful,
                    and successful in winning souls. Had his health been good, and had he entered the regular work, he
                    would have been a bright star which would not have been eclipsed, as he often was. His brethren and
                    his own conscience urged him to itinerate; but more than once he engaged in extensive worldly
                    arrangements, that he might have a plausible excuse to present to his own mind, and others, for not
                    traveling; but such arrangements turned out disastrously. His after instability may be traced to his
                    wilful neglect of a known duty. Once he became unconnected with the church by removing to a new
                    place and not handing in his certificate. Coming on the circuit within the bounds of which he lived,
                    I went to see him, and he was glad to see me; but I perceived he was in perfect torture. I conversed
                    with him much, but could make no impression on him. When I started, being determined to visit him no
                    more, he went to show me a path leading to my appointment; and when we parted I said to him,
                    "I pray God you may never have any peace, day or night, until you return to God."
                    These words, as he afterward told me, never left him, until he was reclaimed, and joined the church,
                    and he again became useful. Some years after, he joined the Baptist church, and became a preacher
                    among them, but was not very useful. The last I heard of him, he lived in the northern part of
                    Indiana; and as there was no Baptist church in his vicinity, he had placed  himself under the watch-care of the United Brethren. I simply mention
                    these facts to show how a lovely, talented, and useful man, by-stifling the convictions of his own
                    mind, and resisting a sense of duty, may become an unsettled, unhappy, and useless man. Had David
                    Penwell done his duty perhaps thousands of souls, who are now lost, might have been saved, and been
                    stars in his crown. Whether he is in this world or the other, in heaven or hell, I know not. If he
                    should see these lines, I wish him to know that one yet lives who remembers him kindly and wishes
                    him well in time and eternity. When I am at this kind of work, I will mention another local preacher
                    of early day in this country, who was a man of worth, by the name of James Benefiel. He was zealous
                    and useful. He once lived in the Mad river country, where he was well nigh
                    overturned by the reveries of Swedenbor-gainism. The reader will say, that is rather a poor
                    recommendation of him. If he were the only man who had been bewildered by the sublime nonsense of
                    that nondescript thing, it would be well. He, however, escaped the fowler's snare; and, I
                    think, was licensed in that country to preach. When I knew him first he lived on the Dry Fork of
                    White Water, and used to come occasionally to our preaching place at R. Manwarring's before
                    mentioned, to preach. At that day, he was a strong, zealous man whose preaching was useful to the
                    community in the awakening of sinners, and the edification of the infant societies. I afterward knew
                    him in 
                        Wayne county
                    , Indiana, when I traveled what was then called White Water circuit. He was not then
                    able to preach with so much vigor; but he was greatly increased in piety, and was still useful.
                    Subsequently he moved to 
                        Putnam county
                    , Indiana, where he died some years since, if I am rightly informed. He was a most
                    excellent man of God. I suppose there are but few now who knew anything about him; for he was poor,
                    and had not the means to go far from home, to form an extensive acquaintance; but God and angels
                    knew him and will have him in perpetual remembrance as will those who were saved by his
                    instrumentality, and they were somewhat numerous.
            
            In the next number I will resume the narrative of events, until another cluster of brethren of worth,
                    who are dead, pass before us, and I shall turn aside to notice them.
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , December 15, 1845.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, January 30, 1846.
            No. XIII
            At the close of the tenth number, I merely refer to the withering effects of the high-pressure
                    operations of the previous year. I wish to say a little more on that subject, without reference to
                    any time or place in particular.
            The shrinkage after our great revivals has been, to me, a matter of painful observation for many
                    years. Take the western country in general, so far as I am acquainted with it, and there are very
                    many thousands who are from Europe, the eastern states, or native residents of the west, that were
                    once connected with the Methodist Episcopal church, or some other branch of the Methodist family, as
                    probationers or members, who have now no connection with it, or any other Christian church. I would
                    think the persons in this condition would number nearly or quite, half as many as our present
                    membership. This is a most unfortunate and unhappy class of persons. Many of them are hardened and
                    wicked to an alarming degree. Some of them are found even among the irreligious, mischievous, and
                    demoralizing Universalist preachers of the day. It is believed, however, that the larger part of
                    these have sprung from regions and communities where the people have been taught to believe that
                    "God, for his own glory has foreordained whatsoever comes to pass." To believe
                    that the God of holiness, justice, and truth, predestinated the fall of man, and consequently his
                    subsequent wickedness. and then only provided a limited atonement, or which amounts to the same
                    thing, only intended a limited extension of the saving benefits of a general atonement, to a select
                    part of mankind who enjoy the influences of sovereign grace, is so revolting to the mind that dares
                    to think freely,  and the heart which feels an expansive
                    benevolence, that many, without stopping to inquire whether there are more rational views of
                    theology, run headlong into the unscriptural belief, that God has also predestinated the ultimate
                    holiness and happiness of all mankind. Many others of these unchurched people are desponding,
                    unstable souls, in whom everybody has lost confidence, and they have lost confidence in themselves
                    and everybody else. The Scriptures and matters of fact, ascertained by careful observation, will
                    prove that such persons are generally worse than if they had never had any connection with the
                    church. We may excuse ourselves by saying they might have been faithful to the end, and thereby have
                    avoided the unhappy results of their course. But this excuse does not mend the matter; for such
                    persons are really and permanently injured in their character and moral feelings, and in their
                    future and eternal destiny. The church is, also, injured in her character and influence; for
                    thinking men will conclude, that there must be some defect in her economy or administration, or she
                    would take better care of the persons who join her. He must be dull indeed, who does not know that
                    for the same persons to join and leave the church frequently tends to make her common and
                    contemptible in the eyes of the public. I have viewed these things till, with an aching heart I have
                    been tempted to think, in some cases, what is called a revival is a matter to be deplored; and I
                    have earnestly inquired in my own mind, is there no remedy for evils which succeed and sometimes
                    seem to grow out of, a good thing? I believe there is; but it can only be found in the combined
                    prudence and piety of that class of preachers called revivalists and their successors. Whenever the
                    proselytes in a revival much exceed the number of sound conversions, and the number of church
                    members who are hungering and thirsting for that measure of righteousness which will fully sanctify
                    their souls, we have reason to fear such revival will be attended and succeeded with a distressing
                    and calamitous blight. In such case, the superintendents of the meetings should cease their strong
                    efforts to proselyte, and should direct their particular attention  to the work of grace in the souls of the people. The preaching, at such
                    times, should be of the most solid and instructing kind; and the young converts should be most
                    kindly but rigidly disciplined in all the duties of religion, both personal and relative. There is
                    some degree of religious hilarity that is a frequent attendant of religious excitement, which may be
                    harmless in a small measure, but which easily runs into that kind of levity which is destructive of
                    piety. Many, in this way, commence their backsliding in the neighborhood of the altar, when they are
                    not dreaming of any such thing. Very much, also, depends on the kind of preachers and leaders, who
                    have the after watch-care of the persons that are brought into the church. If those preachers and
                    leaders are negligent in visiting, in a friendly manner, the persons under their care, many of them
                    will suffer much loss in their souls, and will be discouraged, and will finally return to the world
                    and sin, and lose all the grace which they ever had, and become miserable apostates. In view of all
                    the unhappy results which have been mentioned, and which are not half what might be named, should we
                    not all take heed that we be not guilty of mischief to the church and the souls of men?
            At the conference held in autumn of 1812, the White Water circuit was divided and that part of it
                    east of 
                        Brookville
                     was called 
                        Oxford
                     circuit. This division became necessary because of the increase of members and the
                    increase of new preaching places in almost all parts of the circuit, but more particularly in the
                    western part. The Twelve Mile Purchase, mentioned in my first number, as a fertile tract of land,
                    embracing the West Fork of White Water and its tributaries, was now rapidly settling,
                    notwithstanding the danger from the Indians. The people would form settlements somewhat compact on
                    the principal streams, and build blockhouses to which they might resort in case of danger, which was
                    usually discovered by spies on the frontier, who would detect Indian signs, and would warn the
                    settlers of danger. Sometimes, however, the Indians would elude discovery, and kill families, or
                    parts of families, on the extreme frontier.
            
            The zealous, eloquent, popular, and successful John Strange was sent this year to the 
                        Brookville
                     circuit, which then began at the new, but flourishing town of 
                        Brookville
                    , in the forks of White Water, and went up the East Fork above Salisbury, the then
                    county town of 
                        Wayne county
                    , and west into the Twelve Mile Purchase, and down among the new settlements, on the
                    water courses, to the place of beginning. The circuit embraced much of the present 
                        Franklin county
                    , the whole of 
                        Union county
                    , the settled parts of 
                        Wayne county
                    , and perhaps a part of 
                        Fayette county
                    . The preacher used to travel from block-house to block-house, with his gun on his
                    shoulder, to defend himself, if he should be attacked by the Indians. When I traveled the same
                    country, with some additions, eight years afterward, I found many of the people still retaining a
                    lively remembrance of that zealous man, and his labors. One sister mentioned, in a most feeling and
                    impressive manner, the hymn which he sung in the block-house where she was, when none of the people
                    had been killed by the Indians during his absence. The hymn begins: 
                        And are we yet alive, etc.
                    
            
            Under such circumstances who would not be impressed with such a hymn? Brother Strange labored
                    faithfully on his wilderness circuit, and doubtless was the instrument of many awakenings and
                    conversions; but the untoward circumstances by which he was surrounded, prevented him from having
                    much increase. As we have no means of knowing how many members remained after 
                        Oxford
                     circuit was taken off, I cannot tell whether he had an increase or a decrease. Being in 
                        Oxford
                     circuit, I knew less about the interesting meetings in White Water circuit, at that
                    time, than in former years when the same preacher, or preachers, went round the whole work, from
                    whom I could learn the state of things; hence, the meagre account of the doings in
                    Strange's charge this year. I might say much about the gifts and usefulness of that popular
                    preacher, in this place; but as I intend to give an account of him somewhat in detail, I shall say
                    no more at the present.
            The members returned this year were eight hundred and forty-seven. But this must be a mistake, as the
                    numbers  agree with the returns of the preceding year, before
                    the division of the circuit. The number the next year, it will be seen from the Minutes, was only three hundred and one. It is my impression that Strange did not go to
                    conference that year, but paid his mother the last visit which he ever made her. Hence, in making up
                    the Minutes, it became necessary to guess at the numbers, and they were put down
                    at what they were the year before, without any deduction for those set off to 
                        Oxford
                     circuit.
            Moses Crume was sent to that part of the circuit called 
                        Oxford
                    , being partly in Indiana and partly in 
                        Ohio
                    . He had not much visible success, so far as adding members was concerned, but he did
                    good in trying to methodize and discipline the scores of raw material which the earthquakes and the
                    very awakening preaching of old brother Robert Finley had been the means of gathering into the
                    church. But the spirit of war, and the reaction which often succeeds a great ingathering, made the
                    year one of painful labor with but little apparent fruit. There was much good done, however, in
                    taking care of the tender lambs of the flock.
            In the latter part of the summer, or the beginning of the fall, there was a good camp meeting on
                    Indian creek, in the edge of 
                        Ohio
                    , at which there were many conversions. There was one case of much interest, which
                    should be a lesson of admonition to all who read this account. A very gay young lady was most
                    powerfully awakened; and after a long and hard struggle, she was most happily converted at a very
                    late hour at night. Next morning, all her gay ornaments were gone; and she was seen a meek, modest,
                    plain, and most happy young woman. She joined the church, and remained very pius for sometime; but
                    by degrees, she began to resume her ornaments and gaiety; and, in exact proportion, she began to
                    decline in her religious enjoyment and to lose a relish for class meetings; and, in the course of
                    the next year she left us, and joined the Baptist church. She had been baptized by immersion by
                    Crume, and the church which she joined recognized the validity of her baptism, and did not rebaptize
                    her. What finally became of her, I know not; but I fear she lost  all her piety. Whether her spiritual decline was the cause of her endeavors to find enjoyment in
                    useless ornaments, or whether her indulgence in such ornaments was the cause of her spiritual
                    decline, who can tell? Perhaps there was a reciprocal influence in the case.
            The number of members reported this year was four hundred and eleven. Whether this number was an
                    increase or decrease, is now unknown, as there is no means by which we can learn how many fell to
                    the 
                        Oxford
                     part of the division.
            This year the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit was extended down the Ohio river to 
                        Madison
                    , the county town of 
                        Jefferson county
                    . The accounts which I have are somewhat at variance, one stating that Walter Griffith
                    preached there in 1811, or 1812, and another that William Dixon was the first preacher who preached
                    statedly in the new town. The town was laid out in 1810; and in 1811 the first court in 
                        Jefferson county
                     was held there; and Elijah Sparks, whose character is given before was in attendance as
                    a lawyer; and after attending to the business of his profession through the week, he gave notice, on
                    Saturday evening that if the people would attend the next day, he would preach to them in the house
                    occupied as the courthouse. Several of the oldest citizens say this was the first Methodist sermon
                    ever preached in the town, and the first of any kind preached in a house; but they say there had
                    been a few sermons preached in the woods by Baptist ministers. It is said Sparks attempted to form a
                    class; but in this, he failed; or, if he succeeded at the time, the class was subsequently
                    dissolved; for it is said there was no permanent class until John Strange traveled there in 1814 and
                    1815; but I am inclined to believe this statement is a mistake. Prior to 1812 and 1813, Indian
                    creek, in the now county of 
                        Switzerland
                    , had been the lower part of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit. Between this and 
                        Madison
                    , there was then a large scope of wilderness country, which was deemed dangerous to
                    travel on account of the Indians. I well remember Brother Crume expressing his doubts to me whether
                    it was Brother Dixon's duty to run the risk of traveling that wilderness to 
                        Madison
                    . Whether the preacher then went into what is now the south-east  part of 
                        Ripley county
                    , known then as Buchanan's station, I am not informed; but I presume he did;
                    for, when I first became acquainted with that settlement in 1816, there was a society regularly
                    organized, which had been of some year's standing. If the preacher went there, his exposure
                    was still the greater, as that place was still more frontier. I do not know whether there was any
                    preaching between the preaching place near where 
                        Vevay
                     now is and 
                        Madison
                    , on Indiana 
                        Kentucky
                     creek; but I should judge not; for there was only a small society there when Bigelow
                    and the writer first preached there in the fall of 1816.
            The amiable and meek William Dixon was the preacher this year on the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit. He was a very faithful man, and, as we have seen, enlarged the circuit at
                    great peril, and much increase of labor. If we were to form our estimate of his labors and
                    usefulness from the return of members on the Minutes, we should form incorrect
                    conclusions. In the previous year, the earthquakes and the indefatigable Griffith and the zealous
                    Sparks, and others, had been the means of swelling the membership to four hundred and eighty-nine,
                    in a county mostly new and sparsely settled. The alarm of war had now driven many to block-houses
                    and some had entered the service of the country as volunteers; and many, who seemed to start fair,
                    when the earthquakes ceased, and a spirit of war had seized them, returned again to the world. I
                    attended a camp meeting toward the close of Dixon's year, on the camp ground near
                    Scoggins', (before mentioned) in the Big Bottom, where I saw Dixon, the first time. I well
                    remember an exhortation, which he delivered with many tears, as he expected to leave his charge soon
                    for another field of labor. The winter had been hard, and the ice in the many streams in the circuit
                    had been troublesome; but notwithstanding all the difficulties, he called on the people to witness
                    that he had attended all his appointments, and tried to do his whole duty. In thus reviewing the
                    past year, he urged, in a most pathetic manner, the people to fidelity. Perhaps few men were ever
                    more beloved in 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit, than was William Dixon; but uncontrollable times and circumstances rendered
                         his labors measurably unsuccessful in the conversion of
                    souls, which was a great grief to him.
            By turning to the Minutes, it will be found that the number of members returned
                    this year was three hundred and nineteen, being a decrease of one hundred and seventy, which was a
                    very great decrease in one year, but the causes mentioned will account for it.
            I wish to say a few words in this connection, in reference to William Dixon. Where and when he was
                    born and educated I have no knowledge; but I find him admitted on trial by the Western conference in
                    the fall of 1811, and appointed to Letart Falls circuit; but his name in connection with the circuit
                    is spelled Nixon. In the fall of 1812 he was sent to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit, where I have just described his labors. Mr. Waggoner, the oldest settler in 
                        Madison
                    , mentions him as an interesting young man, who waked up quite an interest among the
                    people. In the fall of 1813, he was ordained a deacon, and appointed to 
                        Zanesville
                     circuit; and in 1814 his appointment was Hinkstone, 
                        Kentucky
                    . In 1815 he was ordained elder, and sent to the 
                        Cincinnati
                     station; and the next year to Steubenville, which was a very heavy circuit, of more
                    than a thousand members. His appointments, in 1817, was 
                        Union
                     circuit, embracing 
                  Lebanon, Dayton
               , and Xenia, and the intermediate country. Here
                    he became acquainted with the lady whom he afterward made his companion for life. In 1818, he was
                    appointed to Strait creek; and in 1819 he was elected a delegate to General conference; and
                    appointed to 
                        Miami
                     circuit, which was then large, embracing all the country between the Miamies for a
                    number of miles back from the river, with the exception of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . It is said he conducted himself with great propriety and dignity at General
                    conference, and gave evidence of some talent as a speaker. Sometime in the year which he spent on 
                        Miami
                     circuit, he married; and at the conference in 1820 he locatd and sttled in the 
                        Miami
                     country above 
                        Lebanon
                    , where he lived many years, much respected as a good and useful local minister.
            Sometime between 1835 and 1838, he moved to the Shawnee Prairie, in 
                        Fountain county
                    , in the Wabash valley. There, 
                    also, he was a very popular and useful local preacher. When I traveled 
                        Crawfordsville
                     district in 1837 and 1838, I was at his house, and found him in possession of much
                    landed estate, heartily sick of his wealth, which he acquired by his marriage. He told me, in the
                    honesty of his heart that all he wanted of this world was a small farm, which he could till with his
                    own hands, and be free from worldly cares and anxieties, that he might have time to read and improve
                    his mind, and do good. He was, in an eminent degree, a meek and lowly man. Perhaps few men have
                    hearts so well filled with love for everything good as had William Dixon. When I knew him last, he
                    was going in the vale of years; but he preached with the zeal and energy of his youth. He was one of
                    the very few traveling preachers, who are not injured in their piety and feelings by their
                    retirement from the itinerant ranks to local life. That he was as useful in a located relation as he
                    would have been in the traveling connection, I dare not affirm; but if there are any who are so, he
                    was one of the number. I am not acquainted with the particulars of his death, which occurred since I
                    left that country. The reader by glancing at the appointments which this brother filled in the nine
                    years which he traveled, must be aware that he was a man of some note in his day. Doubtless, this
                    sweet spirited and useful man rests in the paradise of God.
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , December 25, 1845.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, February 20, 1845.
            No. XIV
            The time is come to take leave of a name endeared by many fond recollections of past and pleasing
                    associations; I mean the venerable name of the Western conference. Indeed, this should have been
                    done in the last number, but it was omitted inadvertently. In doing this it may not be amiss to
                    retrospect a little and compare the past with the present.
            Up to the year 1800 the conferences were known by numbers, and the places of meeting, and not by
                    proper names, as at present. In the year named, the third conference in number  met on the first Friday In April, at Dunworth, Holston. Whether Holston
                    was a section of countyy, and Dunworth a meetinghouse, or town, I know not; for I cannot find
                    Dunworth in Brook's Universal Gazette; hence, I suppose it was a
                    meetinghouse. I suppose, however, the conference was on the watcrs of the Holston
                    river. In 1801, I find a conference called 
                        Kentucky
                    , which met twice in the same year; the first time at Holston, on
                    the 1st of May; and the second time on the 1st of October, at Ebenezer in 
                        Tennessee
                    . I suppose Ebenezer was the name of a meetinghouse. After this, the conference was
                    called the Western conference until the General conference in 1812, when it was divided into the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     conferences.
            For ten years, the Western conference embraced all the Mississippi valley
                    (except the Monongahela district in the 
                        Baltimore
                     conference), inhabited by civilized man. The scattered settlements had to be much
                    secluded, and greatly hardened in sin, if the pioneer Methodist preachers did not find them out, and
                    make a religious impression on them. The name of this widespread and maternal conference being lost
                    in the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     conferences, was succeeded by a large family of conferences, being fifteen in number
                    and part of the sixteenth. For the one, we now have 
                  Ohio,
                            Tennessee, Missouri, Mississippi, Kentucky, Illinois
               ,
                    Holston, a part of Pittsburg, Indiana, 
                  Arkansas,
                            Michigan, North
                    Ohio
               , Memphis, Rock River, North Indiana, and 
                        Iowa
                    . Some of these are in regions which were wholly unsettled by civilized man in the
                    lifetime of the holy mother of them all.
            When we look over the vast valley of the 
                        Mississippi
                     in 1812, and see about one hundred and fifty traveling, and perhaps three hundred local
                    preachers, to cultivate it, so far as our denomination is concerned, and behold only about thirty
                    thousand members, and then reflect that we now have in the same valley more than seventeen hundred
                    traveling and upward of four thousand local preachers, many of whom are men of the first talents in
                    the nation, and that our membership in the valley numbers more than four hundred and fifty thousand,
                    we must say, the Lord of hosts is with us; and if we remain humble, pious, and laborious, he will
                    still be with  us, and permit us to see things more glorious
                    than we have ever seen. O, God, keep us thine for ever and ever.
            In the fall of 1813, David Sharp, a young man just received on trial, was sent to White Water
                    circuit, John Strange to 
                        Oxford
                    , and Moses Crume to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . These brethren were all devoted men, and labored hard to promote the work of God; but
                    had not much fruit of all their toils. Their want of success was the result of several causes. The
                    fell spirit of war was now raging in its most malignant form; and, as two of the circuits were on
                    the frontier, they suffered much in their religious prosperity by the unsettled state of things. The
                    reaction which succeeded the great ingathering in the time of the earthquakes (before mentioned),
                    and the powerful labors of Finley and Griffith, and their zealous helpers among the local preachers,
                    was another great drawback on the prosperity of the church this year. The Minutes
                    show a decrease of four hundred and eleven members on the three circuits from the fall of 1813 to
                    the fall of 1814. 
                        Oxford
                    , which was not then a frontier circuit, decreased only six members in the year Strange
                    traveled it, so that I feel authorized to say, the war, and its concomitants, were the great causes
                    of the decline in the church. It is true, 
                        Oxford
                     circuit had a most excellent pastor in the person of Moses Crume the year before
                    Strange traveled it. Crume was the same good pastor on 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit, but it decreased nearly one hundred under his administration this year.
                    Whether there was an increase or decrease, of White Water circuit this year, I have no means of
                    knowing, as the report of the numbers the preceding year was greatly erroneous from the cause
                    mentioned in the last number, I suppose, however, there was a falling off.
            Perhaps there is no human transactions on this earth performed with so much of the fear of God, and
                    purity of motive, and regard to the welfare of the preachers and people, as the appointments made by
                    the bishops and the presiding elders in the Methodist Episcopal Church. I know that brethren, who
                    have not had just such appointments as they and their friends have wished, have had their doubts
                    that all things were not just right in the appointments; but the day  of eternity will convince them that, in most cases, they were mistaken,
                    and the appointing power was generally right. The most afflicting appointment which I ever received,
                    and which was dark to me the whole year, was made light by the events of the next, and succeeding
                    years. These appointments are generally made with most excellent judgment, as well as purity of
                    intention. It would, however, be folly to claim for them infallible correctness, as they are made by
                    fallible men, who are liable to mistake, with all their honesty of intention. It has always seemed
                    to me, that there was a mistake in appointing the young, timid, inexperienced, but good David Sharp,
                    to the charge of a frontier circuit, as the successor of the talented, energetic, and uncommonly
                    popular John Strange. Doubtless, Sharp did the best he could in the circumstances of the ease, but
                    it was putting him to uncalled for trials, unless it was unavoidable. I know but little about the
                    state of the work in Sharp's field this year. There was a camp meeting in the eastern part
                    of the circuit, in the vicinity of Charles Waddle, mentioned in a former number, as having formed,
                    in conjunction with his wife, and a few other families, a class in 1507, sometime before they had a
                    preacher. The meeting was attended by Strange, and Joshua Holland, a most excellent local preacher
                    who lived in the 
                        Ohio
                     part of 
                        Oxford
                     circuit. Joseph Williams, the third traveling preacher in the White Water country, was
                    also in attendance.
            The meeting moved heavily, and very little good seemed to be accomplished, until an advanced period
                    of the meeting, when Williams preached one of his most terrific exhortations, made up, almost
                    exclusively, of hell fire and damnation, or in other words, of the awful punishment of the wicked in
                    a future world. The discourse was delivered with so much feeling and energy that consternation
                    seized the thoughtless multitude, who quailed before the terrors of the Lord. When Williams ended,
                    Holland arose to exhort, his whole soul being melted with sympathy for the wicked, many of whom were
                    his relatives. With burning zeal for God's cause, he poured forth an exhortation at first
                    general in its character, but such was the intensity of his feelings, that he soon began to call on
                    his nephews and other relatives, to yield to God and  seek
                    salvation when the mighty power of God was manifest among the multitude, and many bowed before a
                    throne of grace and many and glorious were the triumphs of the Redeemer's kingdom that
                    Sabbath afternoon and evening. In the midst of the excitement one man and his family were under the
                    necessity of going home, but he was most anxious to have his children baptized before he went and
                    Waddle (as he recently informed Hays) went and called Strange, and procured water, and went with the
                    family into the woods, not far from the camp ground, so as not to attract the attention of the crowd
                    about the altar, and Strange baptized the children there under the cover of a tree, in the woods;
                    and surely that omnipresent Being who sees and hears, and knows all things in the universe, could
                    bless the penitent seekers on the camp ground, and take the children, who were dedicated to him in
                    the woods into covenant relation to himself at the same time.
            Shortly after the White Water camp meeting there was another held for 
                        Oxford
                     circuit on the premises of Brother Holland, the local preacher mentioned before. The
                    meeting was conducted by Strange, as it was not a quarterly meeting, and the presiding elder was not
                    in attendance. William Lambdin, who was then stationed in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , was there, and preached some interesting sermons. Joseph Oglesby, who traveled
                        Mad river circuit that year, and was passing south, I think, to 
                        Kentucky
                    , stopped a few hours on Monday, and preached a most interesting sermon from Jeremiah
                    xxxviii, 20; and as he had been the first traveling preacher who had preached in that region, and
                    had formed the first circuit west of the 
                        Great Miami
                    , his sermon produced a most excellent impression on the congregation. The meeting was
                    only medium in its utility and success, as it was a very rainy time, and the services were much
                    interrupted. There were no general revivals on 
                        Oxford
                     circuit that year; but there was as much prosperity as could be expected, in the state
                    of the country and the church at that time; for the old leaven of backsliding and apostasy after the
                    great revival in 1812, was not yet all purged out. There were some interesting quarterly meetings
                    that year, which tended much to the edifying of the church.
            
            I was at some of Crume's meetings on 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit, but I do not know much about the circuit generally that year. The meetings
                    which I attended were generally good ones, especially a quarterly meeting in the Big Bottom, at
                    Scoggin's, mentioned before in connection with some good camp meetings on his land. Whether
                    Crume went as far down the river as 
                        Madison
                    , I do not know; but I am inclined to think he did not; as the few documents which I
                    have from there, make no mention of him as one of the early preachers in that town; and from the
                    information which I have, it would seem that Strange had to begin anew, the next year, to reorganize
                    a society in that town. Whether it was during this, or former years, that Crume embraced a part of 
                        Kentucky
                     in his field of labor, I do not know. Brother White, of 
                        Oxford
                    , informs me, that on one of Crume's visits to 
                        Kentucky
                    , a band of ruffians attempted to mob him, and he was compelled to make his escape on
                    foot and leave his horse, which he finally lost. If Crume ever mentioned this circumstance to me, it
                    has wholly escaped my recollection or I would have introduced it in its appropriate place in the
                    notice which I have taken of him and his work. The circuit, as I have already mentioned, decreased
                    much this year; but the fault was not in the preachers, traveling or local; but in the unpropitious
                    and vexatious times. The presiding elder, this year, was the talented and most excellent Samuel
                    Parker, for the 
                        Miami
                     district still embraced the three circuits, the history of which is being detailed.
            The reader has discovered that I have endeavored to give an account somewhat in detail of the most
                    prominent early Methodist preachers, who traveled in this country, who are deceased; but whether I
                    shall do so in reference to Samuel Parker, I cannot say. If I do not, it will not be for want of
                    inclination on my part, or of worth on his part; but from a want of ability to do justice to the
                    memory of so much excellence. Who could properly portray that wonderful man of God? 
                        New Jersey
                     was his natal state, where he was born in 1774; and at the age of fourteen, was
                    awakened and converted, and, in a short time, joined the then despised Methodists. At one period of
                    his life, he lived near, or at, Uniontown, in  western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , where he felt exercised on the subject of preaching. To escape such exercises, he
                    procured a knapsack to hold his clothes, and started to the wilds of 
                        Kentucky
                    , and stopped near 
                  Newcastle, Henry county, Kentucky
               , and boarded a year or two with Hugh Cull, now of 
                        Wayne county
                    , Indiana. Here he was in the midst of a most pious and zealous society, not much
                    calculated to erase his impressions from his mind; so that after many hard struggles, he consented
                    to be a preacher; and his first effort was up to mediocrity; for it was made under the full
                    impression, "Woe is me if I preach not the Gospel." He was licensed in 1800, and
                    remained a local preacher four years, for he was received on trial in the fall of 1804. He traveled
                    numerous and extensive fields, until the latter end of 1819, when he died in great peace in the
                    state of 
                        Mississippi
                    , to which the bishop had transferred him, to superintend the young but interesting
                    plant of Methodism in that rising country.
            He was rather a tall, slim, awkward, man in appearance, with large blue eyes, with an enormous big
                    Roman nose; and, when he preached, the inside of his upper lip protruded ungracefully. He had a long
                    chin, which he used in the winter time to hold up the blanket which he used for comfort; in the
                    centre of which he had a hole cut and well bound, to prevent it from tearing, and which was just
                    large enough to let his small head through, when he would hang the fore part of the bound hole on
                    his chin, and bid defiance to wind and rain. If his bed covering, or frequently his pallet covering,
                    was scant at quarterly meetings, his blanket answered him another valuable purpose for additional
                    covering.
            Reader, do you want to know why I mention pallets at quarterly meetings? I will tell you. Churches,
                    we had none in those days, but our quarterly meetings were at private houses, which were usually
                    crowded by strangers from a distance. When the time for repose arrived, usually all the beds were
                    surrendered to the sisterhood, and we men would pile down on the floor sometimes by the dozen, with
                    our feet to the fire, with a few bed covers over and under us, and sleep under Heaven's
                    guardian care, and arise in the morning, prayerful, thankful, and happy. Well, I have told you how
                         ill-looking Parker was, but there was another face to the
                    man, conferred by his virtues; for had he been a profane drunken knave he would have been all
                    ugliness. The time for service arrives, and now behold the homely, awkward man arise and place his
                    chair before him for his pulpit and hand-board, and begin to read his hymn in rather a careless
                    manner, and you would wonder how such soft and charming intonations could Come out of so homely a
                    mouth; then to hear him sing, "Ere you were aware, your soul would make you like the
                    chariots of Aminadab," Song vi, 12, if you have any taste for vocal music, you would feel
                    regret when the hymn was ended; but this regret would not last long; for when he bowed before the
                    Lord, he would pour forth the pious aspirations of a devout heart, with such eloquence and pathos,
                    that heaven and earth seemed in juxtaposition. I have heard many gifted and pious prayers, but such
                    as I sometimes heard from Parker, I have never heard from any other human being. An able and
                    observing jurist of Indiana has been heard to say, when he hears a minister sing in a superior
                    manner, he never expects to hear a strong sermon after the singing. This declaration may be true,
                    very true, as a general rule, but general rules have their exceptions; and if he had heard Parker
                    sing, and then preach, he would have said: "Well, my rule, though generally true, has
                    failed for once, at least."
            I remember hearing him preach two sermons in the winter of 1813 and 1814 at a quarterly meeting at
                    Scoggin's in the Big Bottom, on the first chapter, latter part of the fourth verse of
                    Solomon's Song. On Saturday, the words were, "The upright love thee," and
                    on Sunday, the words were, "We will remember thy love." I have since heard the
                    most able and popular divines in the nation, but a description of the good man's love to
                    God, and of God's love to man, equal to the description which I then heard, I have not been
                    privileged to hear since, and indeed I never expect to hear anything this side the throne of God
                    which will surpass it. I could give from memory, sketches of some of the sermons which he preached
                    the year he was among us, but they would compare so poorly with the originals, that I would be
                    ashamed of them, and I will not attempt to give them. Perhaps the best  sermon which I ever heard him preach was in the house where I was
                    converted. The text was the words of the Psalmist: "Blessed is the people that know the
                    joyful sound," Psalm Ixxxix, 15. After briefly referring to the silver trumpets, as
                    described in the tenth chapter of Numbers, he considered the text as embodying the offer of
                    salvation to mankind in the Gospel scheme. I do not remember whether he divided his discourse in a
                    formal manner or not, but the plan of the discourse, though I think, unannounced in the beginning,
                    was: 1. The joyful sound. 2. The knowledge of the sound. 3. The blessedness consequent upon that
                    knowledge. O, it was the very vestibule of heaven to be present, and hear his peroration. According
                    to the custom of that time, which was to have two sermons at the middle of the day, Strange arose to
                    preach after him; but with all his eloquence and popularity, he was far behind him. He tried hard;
                    and we were all anxious, that our circuit preacher should preach as well as the presiding elder; but
                    he could not do it. Those who knew Strange, are aware what admirable tact he had to extricate
                    himself when he was embarrassed, and how he usually succeeded; but all his efforts were unavailing
                    at that time. He, however, had the good sense to make short metre of his performance, and let the
                    people go home full of the glorious truths which they had heard from Parker. If the reader will look
                    into the bound Minutes, volume first, page 358, he will find an interesting and
                    true account (so far as it goes), of this extraordinary man. A more mild, kind-hearted and
                    affectionate man than he, Heaven has seldom given to this world of sin and sorrow. He served his
                    generation nineteen years in the ministry much of the time in feeble health. It is no wonder that
                    Methodism became beautiful and strong, when the great head of the general church raised up such men
                    as Parker to plant and water this nursling of his providence and grace. It was a mysterious 
                        Providence
                     which removed him to the then sickly 
                        Mississippi
                    ; and one more mysterious which removed him from labor in the midst of his mental vigor
                    and great usefulness. I presume he had less regret at his removal from earth than any other human
                    being; for he was rich in grace and ripe for glory.
            
            Since I gave an account of old Brother Finley's labors in the White Water
                    valley and contiguous parts, I have been informed by brethren in 
                        Wayne county
                    , that he had a colleague a part of the year, in the person of a young brother, Robert
                    Ray, who was among the first converts to the Lord, and to Methodism, in the Indian creek region,
                    northwest of 
                  Hamilton, Ohio
               . His educational prejudices were in favor of the Baptist church. He
                    was a very devout young man, of good intellectual powers, and would have made a very useful man, if 
                        Providence
                     had permitted; but for many years, the state of his health was such, that he could say
                    with Baxter, in the words of an earlier writer, "I scarcely knew that I lived but by the
                    pains I suffered." After a few months' trial in the itinerant field, under the
                    direction of the presiding elder, he found his health inadequate to the heavy labor and desisted
                    from the work and married Miss Mildred Watts (mentioned in a former number), and entered into
                    secular employments, and never arrived to that mental elevation, of which he was capable, if he
                    could have given himself wholly to God and his work.
            He lived a number of years in the southwest part of 
                        Dearborn county
                    , Indiana, where he labored somewhat extensively as a local preacher with some
                    acceptability and usefulness; but in consequence of his feebleness and worldly cares, and some
                    peculiar and sore trials, he was not so sprightly, and popular, and useful, as his friends expected
                    he would be. The first time I saw him was at a camp meeting, when his pale face, and languid frame
                    and countenance, seemed to indicate that he was more fit to be an inhabitant of another world than
                    this. I remember having assisted him at a meeting about six miles east of 
                        Brookville
                     in the winter of 1812, when the earth was shaking, and sinners weeping and praying. I
                    was not then aware that he was filling appointments regularly on the circuit, or 1 should have
                    connected him in my account with his colleague. I once heard William Holman, now of the 
                        Kentucky
                     conference, speak incidentally in a sermon, of his early religious impressions as being
                    produced by the labors of a pale, hollow-eyed man, whom I presume was Robert Ray. He died five or
                    six years since, when the writer furnished a short  obituary of
                    him for the Western Christian Advocate. Since his death his excellent widow and
                    most of his family have moved to 
                  Vermillion county,
                            Illinois
               , and settled near Danville in
                    that state.
            How the early instruments of God's blessed work in this country are dropping off! A few more
                    years and there will not be one of them left to tell us anything about those early days. Last week I
                    paid a visit to Hugh Cull and his family. He is largely upward of seventy, and his voice is
                    tremulous, but he loves to talk about "the days of other years." I suppose I shall
                    see this pioneer no more this side of the grave. Peace to him in his old age, in death, and to all
                    eternity.
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , January 8, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, March 6, 1846.
            No. XV
            The fall of 1814 found John Sale again returned to the 
                        Miami
                     district, and William Hunt appointed to White Water circuit, John Somerville to 
                        Oxford
                    , and John Strange to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . At the first quarterly meeting for 
                        Oxford
                     circuit, which was held at Manwarring's, a few miles above 
                        Harrison
                    , Sale united the White Water and 
                        Oxford
                     circuits together, so that Somerville and Hunt traveled both circuits, which gave the
                    people greater variety.
            Somerville was a lame Irish tailor; he was a man of good common sense, and some acquirements, but was
                    regarded as having more talents than he really possessed. He was a very grave and religious man, and
                    successful in his labors. He had a most singular mind in one respect. He was ever prone to
                    spiritualize and allegorize the plain historical facts in the Bible. I remember hearing him preach
                    once from 2 Kings ii, 11, "And Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven." He
                    introduced all sorts of divine and gracious operations into his sermon on this text; but before he
                    had done he converted his whirlwind into a most dreadful whirlpool which was carrying the wicked to
                    hell in numerous crowds. At another time, he said, the word Gospel meant good news, and then
                    analyzing  the word news into its elements, he made the letters
                    stand for the initials of north, each, west, and south, and by this process proved the universality
                    of the atonement, and that God would send the Gospel into the four quarters of the world. Perhaps
                    the reader is ready to say, the man was a solemn trifler in the things of God. Do not conclude so
                    hastily, my brother; for a more devout, sincere, and zealous man, and orthodox divine than
                    Somerville, was not easy to be found. How it was that a mind so sound and intelligent, could take
                    such freaks of allegorizing, I know not; but I hope he has outlived them; for I learn from the Minutes, he is yet living as a member of the Pittsburg conference, but is
                    superannuated. May the Lord bless him in his old age, for he was useful with us.
            Hunt was a young man from 
                        Kentucky
                     of respectable family connections. He had just been received on trial, when he was sent
                    to the charge of the White Water circuit. He was a most grave, devoted young man, whose success in
                    winning souls was more than ordinary. His whole soul was in the work, and he bid fair to be a man of
                    great eminence; and he doubtless would have been a man of much popularity and usefulness, if he had
                    not made some mistakes. The first mistake, and the foundation of all the rest was his premature
                    marriage, which took place before he had fully established his ministerial character. He married a
                    most excellent woman, who became unhealthy, in consequence of which he could not regularly attend
                    his work, and he became embarrassed in many ways. She died and went to rest, and he married again,
                    and became disconnected from the church; but was subsequently united to it again, and so remained
                    for many years, and was, to some extent, useful; but had many ups and downs in his eventful life. I
                    believe he is now at the head of a small band, in 
                        Randolph county
                    , Indiana, who call themselves Republican Methodists. I have known him long and well and
                    think, while he is blameworthy, he is also to be much pitied. We may say of ministers, what Dawes
                    says of females, in his oration on female education, if a minister chance to swerve from the
                    strictest rules of virtue, 
                    
                        Ruin ensues, and endless shame; And one false step for ever blasts his fame: In vain his loss
                            he may deplore—In vain look back to what he was before; He sets like stars that
                            fall to rise no more.
                    
            
            I love and pity the man, and wish him well in time and eternity. I do not mention these facts to
                    afflict Hunt and his friends, who are among my best friends, but to warn my junior brethren in the
                    ministry in single life, not to be in a hurry to encumber themselves and the church with the care of
                    a family.
            When Somerville and Hunt came on the circuits, the bitter controversy (before named) concerning
                    Pelagianism had not yet ended. This controversy might have been named as one of the causes of the
                    decline in the two previous years. To show the reader the spirit of the times, I will mention one
                    fact. A worthy brother who lived in my vicinity was recommended to the quarterly meeting conference
                    for license to preach. Some thought he was too strong a believer in human depravity; and a
                    considerable majority of those who had signed his recommendation for license to preach, were
                    prevailed on to sign a remonstrance against their own recommendation, so that when the brother
                    arrived at the quarterly meeting he was informed by the presiding officer that he never admitted
                    applications for license until the last quarterly meeting; and if this were not the case, he held a
                    remonstrance against giving him license signed by many of the persons whose names were to his
                    recommendation. Somerville and Hunt were both decidedly orthodox on this subject; so that after a
                    few rounds the struggle subsided, and a gracious revival commenced in many parts of the two circuits
                    which they traveled.
            The war was now drawing to a close, and the people had rest on the frontiers; and the government land
                    was being purchased, not for the madness of speculation, but to be cleared and tilled by the honest
                    occupants; so that the country was rapidly filling. up with industrious settlers, who were willing
                    to hear the Gospel; and these zealous men willingly denied themselves and gladly followed them into
                    the wilderness, so  as to preach Jesus to them. Hitherto the
                    settlements had been almost exclusively on the water courses; but now much of the good upland
                    between the numerous streams of the White Water valley began to settle, so as
                    to give more uniformity and compactness to the country. By the industrious men then on the work,
                    many of these new settlements were visited, and small but flourishing societies were formed. By
                    reference to the Minutes, it will be found that there was an increase on the White
                    Water circuit this year of one hundred and eighty-nine, and on 
                        Oxford
                     of one hundred and seventy-two, making in all on these two joined circuits, three
                    hundred and sixty-one, and these were mostly new members, soundly converted to God.
            
               
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit had suffered more of a falling off than any other part of the work; but now the
                    country began to improve in all its borders, and the zealous Strange was found at his post in every
                    part of his work, from Ory's (where he used to preach occasionally), between White Water
                    and its tributary, called the Dry Fork, down to 
                        Madison
                    , and as far from the Ohio river as there were any settlements. At
                    this time 
                        Vevay
                     was a new, but most flourishing town, and Strange commenced preaching in it, and formed
                    a small society; but, alas! the materials, in the main, were of a most unsuitable kind to give
                    reputation and stability to Methodism. If the proprietor of the town had taken a broad and correct
                    view of things, and invited moral and religious persons to settle in the town by generous offers,
                    and if he had gone so far as to build a good meeting-house at his own expense, and if the first
                    members of the church had been of the right kind, 
                        Vevay
                     this day, would have been the flourishing city, and 
                        Madison
                     the small town; for when I first knew 
                        Vevay
                     and 
                        Madison
                    , in the winter of 1815, the former had much more enterprise and many more inhabitants
                    than the latter; but the first inhabitants of 
                        Madison
                     encouraged religion, while those of 
                        Vevay
                     did not; and now 
                        Madison
                    , with a surrounding country less improved, is a city; while 
                        Vevay
                    , with a better surrounding country, is only a moderate town. So much for not
                    understanding the fact, that the best way for a town, or country, to flourish, is to fear God, and
                    promote religion.
            
            The society in 
                        Madison
                     went through many vicissitudes in early days. After carefully reading all the documents
                    furnished me last fall by Judge Taylor, although they have some discrepancies in them, I think I may
                    say, Elijah Sparks did form a class in 1811; and although the first settler there thinks Dixon was
                    the first regular traveling preacher who preached in the place, he is probably mistaken as he did
                    not belong to the society; and that Walter Griffith went there a few of his latter rounds on the
                    circuit, and resuscitated the society formed by Sparks, which consisted of six or seven members for
                    several years. During Dixon's year, the society still remained, but was small. In a former
                    number, I say, I would incline to believe that Griffith preached there, were it not for documents
                    which affirm that Dixon was the first regular preacher. When I wrote that, I had only read the
                    statements of one man and his wife, who, I suppose, did not hear Griffith. I have supposed in the
                    last number, that Crume did not go to 
                        Madison
                     in the perilous times, when he rode 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit, and that the society became disorganized, while they were without a pastor.
            When Strange went to 
                        Madison
                     in the fall of 1814, he revived or reorganized the society, which had only six or eight
                    members then. In the following winter, there was a quarterly meeting in the town, when the holy
                    sacrament was administered by Sale, the presiding elder, which was the first time that ever the
                    sufferings and death of the Savior were commemorated in that way in the place. It is said, there
                    were six or seven preachers at this meeting, which was a large number for the newness of the
                    country. Three of them were traveling preachers, Sale, Strange, and William M'Mahan, who
                    then traveled 
                        Shelby
                     circuit in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Sale and Strange are dead, and M'Mahan now belongs to the Memphis conference.
                    He preached at 
                        Madison
                     occasionally in 1812, when he traveled Silver Creek circuits. The society in 
                        Madison
                     increased considerably this year, as did many others; for the ebbing of the circuit now
                    ceased, and the good work began to advance again. About this time, some Methodist families settled
                    about eleven miles northeast of 
                        Madison
                    , and were formed into a class, and had preaching, which was a great  accommodation to them; for they had to go to 
                        Madison
                     to hear the word and enjoy class, when they first came to the neighborhood, now called
                    Canaan. The class at Buchannan's station, before named, was again revived, and was built up
                    in the good ways of the Lord. The increase this year on the circuit was eighty-six.
            Perhaps the reader wishes to know why I do not give some account of the Methodist meeting-houses in
                    these extended circuits. The reason is, there were none, or nearly none, of which to give any
                    account. In 1811, there was a small log meeting-house built on Clear creek, east of Salisbury, the
                    then county town of 
                        Wayne county
                    , Indiana. But the town has gone to desolation, and become a farm, since the county seat
                    has been removed to Centreville. This meeting-house was never well finished, and after the
                    court-house was built in 
                        Salisbury
                    , the preaching was removed there, and the meetinghouse was suffered to go to
                    desolation. This was the first Methodist meeting-house in the whole White Water
                    valley. It should have been preserved as a memento of former years. Three or four years
                    afterward, there was another small log meeting-house built a few miles from the former, which was
                    called Cain's meeting-house, and was about three miles west of north from where the city of 
                        Richmond
                     now stands. About the same time (whether before or after, my information does not
                    determine), there was another log meeting-house, built in the southern part of the same country,
                    called Doddridge's meeting-house, being so named after a most estimable family, who had
                    settled there from 
                        western Virginia
                    . Both these houses were standing and in use, when I rode White Water circuit in 1818
                    and 1819. They were small and had but few windows, and a fire-place and chimney in one end. When I
                    used to preach in them in cold weather, and the people would collect around the fire, so as to sit
                    with their backs to me, I would have been glad to see the chimney fall down in the midst of the
                    sermon, so that the people would have been induced to get stoves. Do not think, reader, that I would
                    have been willing to see the chimneys fall on the people. They were outside chimneys, and would have
                    injured nobody in their fall. Cain's meeting-house has gone to decay, and there is none in
                    its  place. Doddridge's has been superseded by a good
                    and spacious brick house. About 1819, there was another meetinghouse, built of logs, on the waters
                    of Lee's creek, a branch of the Dry Fork. This house was in 
                        Ohio
                     and belonged to 
                        Oxford
                     circuit. In 1820, there was another log house built about four miles from 
                        Brookville
                    , near the road to 
                        Connersville
                    . I suppose the entire church property in the whole White Water
                    valley up to 1830, belonging to the Methodist Episcopal Church, was not worth one
                    thousand dollars. What a change in this particular! Now our church property in the valley must be
                    worth sixty or seventy thousand dollars at a very moderate estimation. Perhaps it is worth nearly
                    one hundred thousand. 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit, with all its wealth, had no meeting-house until the fall of 1815. At the
                    quarterly meeting in the winter, when Sale and others were at 
                        Madison
                    , they stayed with Mr. M'Intire, who had become largely interested in the town
                    by purchasing the property of one of the proprietors. Sometime during the meeting the subject of
                    building a church was named, and it was resolved to build the next summer. Mr. M'Intire had
                    lived in 
                        Cincinnati
                     before he came to 
                        Madison
                    , and had contributed largely in helping to build a house of worship for the
                    Presbyterians, for whom he had strong predilection. In the spring, he went to 
                        Cincinnati
                     and called on his friends, whom he had assisted, requesting them to assist him in turn
                    to build a house in the town of his residence. With what he received from 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and what he gave himself, and what the Methodists and those who were friendly to them
                    contributed, they were able to rear and inclose a neat brick church, which was sufficiently large
                    for the population at that time. The church was not ready for occupancy before Strange left the
                    circuit for conference; so that his successor, David Sharp, was the first traveling preacher who
                    preached in it, and dedicated it to the service of almighty God, although it was unseated,
                    unplastered, and had no pulpit, and it remained in that state for several years. When I first
                    preached in 
                        Madison
                     in the latter part of 1816, I preached in the dwelling houses during the winter. I
                    suppose this meeting-house was the first one built of bricks which the Methodists ever had in
                    Indiana. There  were meeting-houses built earlier than those
                    which I have mentioned, in Clark's grant, which will be noticed when I come to speak of
                    that part of the work; but these were log houses with their chimneys. It may seem strange to the
                    people of the present day, that we did so long without houses of worship; but this is easy of
                    explanation. The country was new, and very few persons had settled permanently, so that there might
                    be a flourishing class in a particular neighborhood, and in a short time the members would be gone,
                    and others who were not Methodists would occupy their places. The country being sparsely settled,
                    the congregations were not large as they are now, so that, except at quartely meetings, a private
                    house would hold the people conveniently. Most of the people were in moderate circumstances, and
                    being new beginners in a new country, they had but little time or means to spare in building
                    churches. Sometimes, instead of occupying the dwelling houses, which were suitable for the
                    accommodation of the people, and in the county towns, the court-houses were almost uniformly used as
                    churches for public worship.
            The force of habit had such an influence on the preachers who were accustomed to preach in private
                    dwellings, that they did not urge the people to build churches; for they did not much desire to
                    leave the dwelling houses, and go to meeting houses. I have mentioned the force of habit, and its
                    influence, and I feel it to this day; for I can have more true religious enjoyment in standing
                    behind a split-bottomed chair, on the week day, in a private house, and preaching to twenty-five or
                    thirty simple hearted people, who fear and love God (if they will not chew and spit tobacco over the
                    floor and furniture), than in preaching to hundreds in the best church this side of heaven.
            And then, after preaching, to meet the class, as they are seated in the good brother's
                    house, which is for the time being God's own house and heaven's gate, is most
                    delightful, and is the very next thing to heaven itself. There is much complaint these days, that
                    the preachers do not meet class after preaching; and it strikes me there are many reasons for this,
                    one of the principal of which is, that after the most  of the
                    people have retired to detain twelve or fifteen persons in a house which will hold half as many
                    hundreds, is enough to freeze their hearts, and make the class a dull concern. Perhaps this may not
                    seem so to those who are used to it, as it does to me, who have been used to the private house.
            There was one great advantage, however, arising from our tardiness to build churches, especially in
                    the towns; for although we had some inconveniences in getting along in the school-houses and
                    court-houses, yet if we had built in an early day the houses must have been small, and this would
                    have done us a very great injury in the end; we would have cleaved to our little old houses, until
                    we would have lost the more intelligent and refined part of our congregations; for such people will
                    not go to church when they have to push like rude swine in a close pen to get a seat.
            At this very day, many of the best families in 
                        Madison
                     would have been our hearers, and many of them our members, if we had not remained in
                    our little old church so long. It used to make my heart ache, when I was presiding elder there, to
                    see one gentleman after another arise and leave to make room for a lady, who had no seat; when I
                    would have to preach to a congregation three-fourths of whom were females. I am willing to believe
                    the ladies are the better part of this lower creation; but I do not think it is Heaven's
                    will that they should compose the chief part of our worshipping assemblies; but if they do come, and
                    there is not room for all, the gentleman should give them the preference, if they do not come too
                    late. For the want of room, many excellent families ceased to come to Methodist meetings; and now
                    they are worthy and influential members of other churches, and are doing well; but I would much
                    rather we had them churched among us; for I am fully persuaded we could do a better part by them,
                    with all the means of Methodism, than other churches can do.
            I could name several Methodist churches in Indiana, that, if a fire or wind from God should lay them
                    in ruins, I should feel like keeping a day of thanksgiving; for if they stand much longer, I fear
                    others will come and take away our place and nation. O, brethren, tear down the little old churches
                    in the outskirts of the towns, and erect noble, but plain buildings in  the centre of population, and live and pray as Christians ought, and
                    God will double your numbers and means in a very few years, perhaps in 2 few months. You should aim
                    at nothing less than the conversion of the entire population; and to this end you must have houses
                    that will hold the people.
            
               
                        Brookville
                    , Ind., January 21, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, March 27, 1846.
            No. XVI
            John Sale was returned to the 
                        Miami
                     district in the autumn of 1815, and Daniel Fraley was appointed to the White Water
                    circuit, Benjamin Lawrence to Oxford, and David Sharp to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . How the work prospered on the White Water circuit I know not (for I had removed in the
                    preceding year from the White Water country to 
                        Switzerland county
                    ), but from what I could learn three years afterward, when I traveled the same circuit,
                    it was not a year of much prosperity. The preacher, Brother Fraley, was a good man, but not very
                    successful when he traveled the White Water circuit, which was partly owing to his purpose to marry
                    and locate at the ensuing conference. Whenever a preacher comes to the conclusion to locate, he had
                    better do so at once; for I have never known a man receive an appointment, with a purpose to locate
                    the next year, who was of much use to the church during his last year. His heart is local, and not
                    in the work, consequently he does the work of the Lord in a lukewarm way; much more so than a local
                    preacher who expects to remain local. How many members were gained or lost this year is not known,
                    as Brother Fraley did not go to conference; and I presume there was no return made, for the Minutes report precisely the same number which was reported the preceding year,
                    which is the custom when the numbers have to be guessed at.
            Where Daniel Fraley was born and educated I have no knowledge; but I find him received on trial by
                    the Western conference in the fall of 1810, and appointed to 
                        Illinois
                     territory. In 1811 he was sent to Cold Water, which, I presume,  was in the then 
                        Missouri
                     territory; and in 1812, to the 
                        Madison
                     circuit in the Salt River district in 
                        Kentucky
                    ; and in 1813, Salt River circuit in the same district. At the
                    close of this year (1814), he was ordained elder, and appointed to Pick-away circuit in the 
                        Ohio
                     conference; and in 1815, he received his last appointment to White Water circuit,
                    Indiana, where he married in the course of the year, and located in the fall of 1816. He lived
                    several years in 
                        Salisbury
                     and 
                        Centreville
                    , and labored as a local preacher with as much acceptability and usefulness as is common
                    to men who retire from the work, and enter into business life. I always found Brother Fraley a
                    pleasant man and a good Christian. Some years since he moved to the northwest and died. I have no
                    information concerning his latter days and death, but I presume they were peaceful; for he was a
                    good man. He was a man of medium talents, and judging from the returns of members on the circuits
                    which he traveled, I should conclude he was a man of some success in his Master's cause. I
                    trust he now rests with God, in the society of many whom he was the instrument of saving by his
                    ministry.
            Benjamin Lawrence came from 
                        New Jersey
                     in 1813, if I mistake not, as a local preacher. He was popular and useful while he
                    continued local. He was received on trial by the 
                        Ohio
                     conference in the fall of 1815, and appointed to the charge of 
                        Oxford
                     circuit, in which he resided. He was a man of ordinary talents and information, but he
                    was wonderfully blessed in his labors. Crowds attended his ministry, and many of them were awakened
                    and converted, so that the circuit had an increase of one hundred and forty-seven, which, with the
                    increase of the former year, swelled the circuit to seven hundred and twenty. This was doing well in
                    that day. What new places were taken into the circuit I know not, as I had removed from it to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit, where Brother Sharp was the preacher.
            Brother Sharp commenced his work on the circuit in the right spirit, and was well received; for he
                    was a very amiable man, whose main fault was being a little too full of humor and anecdote, but in
                    these things he was not extravagant. At the first quarterly meeting, Joseph Oglesby, who had settled
                         in 
                        Vevay
                     with a view to the practice of medicine, but which he had not yet commenced, proposed
                    to Rev. John Sale, the presiding elder, to travel through the winter. His long service and popular
                    talents induced Brother Sale to comply with his proposal, and Sharp was sent to some circuit in 
                        Ohio
                     until spring, when Oglesby retired from the work, and Sharp returned to the circuit.
                    Sharp was a young man of a good mind, but not a very animated preacher, and, of course, not very
                    successful, so that the circuit declined in numbers, and the Minutes report twelve
                    less than the preceding year. Sharp traveled several circuits in 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana, and in 1819 was appointed presiding elder of the 
                        Illinois
                     district, where he remained three years, when he was appointed to the 
                        Missouri
                     district, where he remained two years, and was then appointed to Granville circuit in
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     district, 
                        Ohio
                     conference, in the fall of 1824; and when the Pittsburg conference was organized he
                    fell in its bounds, where he has remained ever since. He was, and I trust is yet, a man of sterling
                    worth. Having moved into a part of the work where the country was new and the settlements sparse, I
                    have no cheering accounts to give of good and successful camp meetings for this and the preceding
                    year. I presume they had such meetings in the White Water and 
                        Oxford
                     circuits, but not in 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . I wish to say a few words on camp meetings and I might as well do it now as in a
                    future number.
            The reader of these numbers has seen, and will yet see, if I am permitted to proceed with my account
                    of God's work, that no human being can correctly estimate the amount of good which this
                    country has realized from camp meetings. Perhaps nearly one-half of the members of the Methodist
                    Episcopal church are the fruits of camp meetings, directly or remotely; and it makes my heart sad to
                    think that the time has nearly come, when we must give up our camp meetings, and cease to worship
                    God according to the dictates of our own consciences in this country, under the constitution of the 
                        United States
                    , and near the middle of the nineteenth century. I may be asked, how can this be in this
                    republic, where the constitution and laws secure this right to every man? I will answer this plainly
                    and fairly. Since the country has become  more densely
                    populated, there are more persons who go to such meetings merely for recreation, than in former
                    days; in consequence of which, hucksters find it a more profitable business to attend these meetings
                    than formerly; hence, they increase in numbers and daring. I have myself seen as many as fourteen
                    huckster wagons at one camp meeting, and perhaps one-fourth as many boys, and lads, and young men,
                    and even middle-aged, and old men about them, as were on the camp ground to attend religious
                    service. Many of these young, and even middle-aged persons, never came on the camp ground, unless it
                    was to interrupt the quiet of the meeting. While they are about these wagons, they learn to run,
                    jump, wrestle, play, yell, swear, talk vulgar, and in some instances, gamble on the Lord's
                    day. Perhaps, in some instances, there is more mischief done to the morals of the youth of the land
                    about these wagons, than there is religious good effected on the camp ground. Now, although the
                    preachers and their people are not to blame for the evil done, yet in view of the fact that we see
                    the mischief is done, in consequence of the coming together of such crowds of heedless sinners, we
                    and other denominations will have to give up our popular meetings in the woods. I will ask any man
                    who has any judgment and conscience if this is fair? Does our going to the grove to worship God,
                    give a set of rude, covetous persons a right to annoy us, and demoralize our children, and the
                    children of the community in general?
            Is there no hope for us? I fear not. It is true, our brethren in 
                        Ohio
                     and some other states have obtained redress by the legislatures after a long struggle,
                    in which all sorts of slang and slander were poured out in the halls of legislation, and elsewhere,
                    against camp meetings. It is also true, the friends of good order did obtain, with much difficulty,
                    the passage of a good law to protect religious meetings in Indiana; but then, either by accident or
                    otherwise, the penalty to the law never found its way into the statute-book; and when the laws were
                    revised, instead of re-enacting the penalty of the law, the whole of it went by the board. Since
                    this bungling legislation we are much more annoyed than before, because hucksters and their friends
                    construe this whole matter  as an expression of the legislature
                    and their constituents, in their favor, and that they are now encouraged by high authority in their
                    vile oppression of the moral and religious part of the community.
            I suppose there are one hundred thousand persons in the different churches in Indiana, and more than
                    that number of their friends and adherents who do not belong to any church, who are in the habit,
                    occasionally, of holding camp meetings or associations in the woods. Is it just that one-fourth of
                    the entire population of Indiana should be oppressed, and deprived of their natural and
                    constitutional rights by a few hundreds of low, vile, and vulgar hucksters? Every man will say no.
            Why then cannot these two hundred thousand or more of the very best citizens of the state be
                    protected? Reader, I will tell you; and I will do this more in deep sorrow than in anger. Some of
                    the members of both houses of the legislature are profane swearers and what do profane swearing
                    law-makers care about the youth of the land learning to swear, while hanging about huckster wagons?
                    Some of them are habitual Sabbath-breakers, and what do they care about boys and lads learning to
                    profane the Lord's day in the vicinity of a religious assembly? Some of them if fame tells
                    the truth are lewd, and what concern is it to them if their own sons and others learn vulgarity on
                    the holy day of the Lord? Some of them are habitual or occasional drunkards, and what do they care
                    about boys and lads learning to get drunk on the Sabbath, on the whisky usually smuggled among the
                    cakes, beer, and cider of hucksters? Some of them are gamblers, if report is true, and what do they
                    care about boys and lads learning to gamble on the Sabbath in the vicinity of hucksters'
                    wagons? Well, but some of them you will say, are good religious men who belong to the different
                    churches, who will surely use their influence to secure to all their constitutional rights and
                    privileges. I have known more cases than one, where men have passed for Methodists at home, and when
                    they have gone to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , they have attended a low, vile thing, called a theatre. I have heard of two Methodists
                    rooming together the whole session and just before its close, by mere accident, they learned that
                         they were members of the same church. I suppose that our
                    members are as good as the members of other churches; and now what have we to hope in favor of good
                    morals from men who are ashamed of their religion when they go abroad? There are many noble,
                    high-minded men in our legislature who are disposed to do right; but their hands are tied by the
                    shackles of party, so that they cannot do what they would without injury to themselves, as they
                    think. Here is an honorable Whig or Democrat, who sees all the evils of which I complain; and is
                    disposed to remove them; but he wishes to be elected again, and he does not know who may be his
                    competitor. He may be some low, vulgar Whig or Democrat, as the case may be, whose only merit is,
                    that he has more lungs than brains, and a better throat than heart, who hallooed louder for 
                        Clay
                     and Frelinghuysen, or Polk and Dallas, than anyone else, and by consequence he must
                    have the nomination. If he obtained it, the other knows he will not hesitate to take the law, and
                    the journals of the house, to the illiterate swearing drunkards of the county, and make them believe
                    their liberties are in jeopardy for the church and state are about to be united; and as proof of the
                    fact see this law to protect religious assemblies, by which the honest baker, and brewer, and
                    distiller, are prohibited from their natural rights to go to a camp meeting or association, and make
                    all the money they can. I have not set down aught in malice. I might have made a much darker picture
                    and kept in the bounds of sober truth.
            Now, I ask, what hope is there for Methodist, United Brethren, Cumberland Presbyterian, New School or
                    Old School Presbyterian camp meetings, or Baptist associations? There is no hope but with the people
                    themselves. If the two hundred thousand of the salt of Indiana would let it be known, that they will
                    be imposed upon no longer, the deed is done, and our rights are secure. Just let the Whigs and
                    Democrats who are friends to order, inform their respective parties that if either party bring out
                    men who are immoral and countenance immorality they will not support them; but that they will
                    support the good men, irrespective of their party; and it will soon be seen what will be the result.
                    I know a drunken, worthless vagrant who is not worth enough to bury him with  decency and who has never contributed five dollars to the support of
                    the government, weighs as much at the ballot-box as the most moral and useful man, who has paid his
                    hundreds, and perhaps thousands, to sustain the laws and government of the state. This evil cannot
                    be altered; but let the friends of order speak out, and those who countenance and abet the vicious
                    will soon find their level while the cause of virtue will gain strength every day.
            Do you intend, says one, to coerce men to religion and morality by statute law? No; for none but
                    fools ever dreamed of making men religious by force; but I do propose to restrain men by statute
                    law, from coercing others to give up their constitutional rights, and their liberty of conscience.
                    If our meetings were protected from the nuisances named, we would have many more who would go to our
                    camp meetings, to stay on the ground, and the meetings would be much more interesting. Now many are
                    afraid to go for fear they will be overburdened with their friends and acquaintances, who have not
                    made provision for themselves; and many youngsters go, depending on the hucksters, who would make
                    arrangements to encamp with respectable families, where their morals would be safe, were it not for
                    the abominations of which I complain.
            I know some will tauntingly say, keep in your churches, and you will have none of this difficulty.
                    This is not certain; for I have known wagons to go with cakes and melons to sell on the Sabbath at
                    or near a common quarterly meeting. But where are the churches, or the means to build them, which
                    will hold the population in many parts of our state? For many years, except when I have been in
                    stations, I have had to preach to a promiscuous crowd in the woods when there is to be but one
                    sermon; but where there is a regular camp meeting, it is the most delightful place to preach in the
                    world. There is no man in Indiana who has had the same amount of experience in this matter as
                    myself, so that I am prepared to state what I do know, and to complain of what I and my people have
                    suffered. Must I say to our beloved camp meetings, where thousands have been saved, and where
                    thousands more might be saved, farewell, a long farewell to the delightful scenes of my best days,
                    because statesmen wish to banish  you that they may secure the
                    votes of the drunken rabble? If it must be so, they have got the last vote which they will ever get
                    from me, or my friends, so far as I can honorably and religiously influence them. If angels in
                    heaven, and the spirits of just men made perfect, could be sorry, and weep, it would be to know that
                    these instrumentalities, which have been the means of saving thousands upon thousands all over the 
                        United States
                    , and in Indiana in particular, must cease. Many a godly father and mother have died
                    with cheerfulness, believing that the wonderful camp meeting influence would yet be the means of
                    saving their children, who were unconverted at the time of their death. Shall they be disappointed?
                    I fear they will.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, April 27, 1846.
            No. XVII
            Reader, I propose in this number to conduct you away from the three circuits which we have traveled
                    so long, and survey Clark's Grant awhile. As early as 1799, Nathan Robertson, a worthy
                    member of the Methodist Episcopal church, moved from 
                        Kentucky
                     and settled near one branch of Silver Creek, three or four miles north of where 
                        Charlestown
                    , the county town of 
                        Clark county
                     now stands. About the same time, or shortly after, two brothers by the name of Samuel
                    and William Bullock settled in the vicinity of Fourteen Mile creek; so-called, I presume, because it
                    enters into the 
                        Ohio
                     about fourteen miles above the Falls. When the Bullocks came to the 
                        Grant
                    , I presume they were Methodists, but from whence they came I do not remember, but I
                    think they told me, twenty years ago, from 
                        Kentucky
                    . Father Robertson and the two Bullocks, with their wives and a few others, formed the
                    nucleus of the first Methodist society in the 
                        Grant
                    . When Brother Robertson talked of moving to the Indiana territory, his friends
                    endeavored to dissuade him from doing so, but the preacher on the circuit said: 
                        Go, brother Robertson, and the Lord will bless you, and make you the means of raising up a
                            Church in the wilderness.
                    
            
            
            Although Robertson was a man of no literature, he was a man of good, strong common sense and great
                    moral worth. Some of his sons must then have been grown, and perhaps heads of families. Whether any
                    of his children were then members of church, I do not know, but if they were not at the time, nearly
                    or quite all joined at subsequent periods and were among the excellent of the earth and the church.
                    Most of his grandchildren (who are very numerous) have been worthy members, nearly from the time
                    they were old enough to know the Lord. One of his grandsons informs me, that as early as 1801,
                    Benjamin Lakin and Samuel Parker visited the 
                        Grant
                     at his grandfather's request. This could only have been a transient visit, as
                    Lakin was then on Limestone circuit, named after a town of that name (now Maysville), and Parker was
                    then a local preacher living near 
                  Newcastle, Henry county, Kentucky
               . These brethren did not attempt to form societies; as this is said to
                    have been done by a local preacher who lived on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side of the river, whose name was John Bate, or Bates. Whether the first society was
                    formed before the visit of the two brethren named, I cannot say.
            The first society was formed on the east side of Fourteen Mile creek in what was formerly known as
                    Gassaway's settlement, but now better known as the neighborhood of Salen meeting-house. At
                    what time the house was built I am not informed, but it was probably the second house of worship
                    built in the 
                        Grant
                     by the Methodists. Whether James Beggs, who was a prominent member of the territorial
                    legislature, had then settled in the 
                        Grant
                     and formed a part of the society, I have not learned. The second society was formed in
                    Robertson's settlement, where the first Methodist meeting-houses were built in Indiana, in
                    the fall of 1807.
            When I began to preach in this house and 
                        Salem
                     meetinghouse in 1825, they appeared to me of nearly equal ages. The third society was
                    formed back of the present town of Utica, in what was called Jacob's settlement, nine or
                    ten miles above the Falls. Here was held the first camp meeting which was ever held in Indiana,
                    while William Burke was on the 
                        Kentucky
                     district, perhaps as early as 1806, or 1807. The fourth society was formed in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , which was once the county  town of 
                        Clark county
                    . At what time these latter societies were formed, and whether by Bates or the traveling
                    preachers, my informant does not say. These four societies which were all that were on the north
                    side of the river, made a part of Salt River circuit until the fall of 1807.
            At the 
                        Kentucky
                     conference, held at Holston, May 1, 1801, William
                    M'Kendree was appointed to the 
                        Kentucky
                     district, which then embraced 
                  Ohio, Kentucky
                and 
                        Tennessee
                    . One of the circuits was called Salt River and 
                        Shelby
                    , which covered all the country contiguous to the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    , and to a great distance around. John Sale and William Marsh were sent to this circuit,
                    but I have no information that they ever visited the 
                        Grant
                    . At the 
                        Kentucky
                     conference, which was from this time called the Western conference, held at Ebenezer, 
                        Tennessee
                    , October 1st, of the same year, M'Kendree was returned to the district, which
                    then extended as far south as Natchez. Hezekiah Harriman was sent to Salt
                    River, from which 
                        Shelby
                     was now separated. I have not learned that Harriman ever visited the four societies in
                    the 
                        Grant
                    .
            The next fall, 1802, M'Kendree was again returned to the district, and Benjamin Lakin and
                    Ralph Lotspeich were sent to Salt River circuit. These men came to the 
                        Grant
                     and made it a part of their circuit, so that we may date the commencement of regular
                    itinerant preaching in this region from the fall of 1802, or the spring of 1803; some three years
                    before the regular preaching in the White Water country. Benjamin Lakin is yet living, a venerable
                    and venerated superannuated preacher of the 
                        Ohio
                     conference. It must now be nearly forty-seven years since he entered the work, for I
                    find he was ordained deacon in 1801, but I have not found when he was received on trial. He traveled
                    many circuits in 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    , and was popular, useful and successful, while he was able to travel. Perhaps the
                    reader may remember that I introduced him before, as producing a powerful impression at a quarterly
                    meeting at M'Carty's on White Water. Lotspeich was a most holy, devoted and useful
                    man. He traveled various fields of labor until the summer of 1813, when he finished his valuable
                    labors and went to rest. The reader will find an  interesting
                    account of this blessed man in the first volume of the bound Minutes, page 238.
            At the Western conference held in the fall of 1803, M'Kendree was again returned to the 
                        Kentucky
                     district, and Adjet M'Guire, who was received on trial at that conference, was
                    sent to Salt River circuit. The few old members who then lived in the 
                        Grant
                     still remember the man and his zealous preaching. He traveled five years, and was
                    zealous and useful. After his location he still remained zealous and successful. I have previously
                    mentioned him as among the popular and powerful preachers at several camp meetings which I attended.
                    He was recommended for readmission into the 
                        Ohio
                     conference in the summer of 1821, but failed in his application, from some local cause.
                    He was probably somewhat disaffected toward the government and administration of the Methodist
                    Episcopal church prior to this time, but he now became chafed in his feelings, and finally joined
                    the Protestant Methodists, and traveled extensively and spent much of his time in bitterly abusing
                    and shamefully misrepresenting the church which had taken him by the hand and made him of some note.
                    If he has done any good since his alienation from his mother church and her children, I presume few
                    have any knowledge of the fact.
            M'Kendree was returned to the 
                        Kentucky
                     district in the fall of 1804, and Benjamin Lakin and Peter Cartwright were sent to the
                        Salt River circuit, and they are both well remembered in the 
                        Grant
                    . This year was the beginning of Cart-wright's itinerancy, which he has pursued
                    ever since, in 
                  Kentucky, Ohio, Tennessee
               , Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , and perhaps a part of 
                        Virginia
                    . Take him as a whole, he is no ordinary man. His early literary opportunities were very
                    limited, but with all his extended labors, he has become a man of considerable reading and research.
                    He is a man of undaunted courage and untiring industry. He has long mingled in the councils of the
                    church, in the General conferences, and has proved himself a man of good judgment, and a most firm
                    friend to the church. In more than one important crisis, when the many were wrong he was right. He
                    unites in himself what is not common, good, strong common sense and a world of wit. Of the latter he
                         has a redundancy, and uses it more freely than a grave
                    minister of the Gospel should. I suppose that nothing but death will cure him of this habit. Last
                    fall, a literary institution of his own state gave him the title of D. D., to which he is as much
                    entitled as many a regular built scholar who has the title without half Dr. Cartwright's
                    knowledge of theology. I have not seen him since he received his doctorate, but I suppose he appears
                    about as he did before its reception. Although an old man, he has almost all the rigor and vivacity
                    of youth. The Lord bless him forever.
            In the fall of 1805, the charming M'Kendree went to another district, after having been in
                    the 
                        Kentucky
                     district three and a half years, and was succeeded by William Burke, then in the prime
                    of life, and at the summit of his popularity. According to my information, he was the first
                    presiding elder who labored this side the 
                        Ohio
                    , in Indiana. I suppose none of the quarterly meetings were on this side of the river in
                    M'Kendree's time, or he would have been at them, for he knew no obstruction on the
                    way of duty. Asa Shinn, David Young and Moses Ashworth, were the preachers on Salt
                    River circuit that year. Shinn was an elder, but Young and Ashworth had just been
                    admitted. Shinn served the church many years in various fields of labor, some of them obscure, and
                    some of them the most prominent and important in the nation. By dint of application he rose from
                    rather an unpromising beginning to great eminence. His intense application and research were pursued
                    with such ardor and perseverance, that his reason became dethroned at several periods in his life.
                    He wrote two or three books which exhibited much thought, and one of them, written to unfold
                    God's plan of human salvation, has some merit, but the one on the attributes of the Deity,
                    is so full of conjecture and vague hypotheses, that it will go down to oblivion. When I read it, I
                    was forcibly impressed with the thought, that a deranged man is not a safe divine. He was useful in
                    his day, but he lessened his influence by joining the Protestant Methodists, where he had not scope
                    for his superior talents, in his lucid intervals. Where he is now, and whether he is in a state of
                    mental sanity or not, I am not informed.
            
            David Young served the church many years, in different department of the work, with much ability,
                    popularity and usefulness. He finally became worn down, and had to take a superannuated relation to
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     conference, which he still sustsins. He now lives in 
                  Zanesville, Ohio
               , venerable in age,
                    appearance and talent, and will soon be numbered among those who were, but now are not. Moses
                    Ashworth continued to travel until the fall of 1809, when he located, and what became of him I know
                    not. When I come to speak of Silver Creek circuit, it will appear he was useful.
            In the fall of 1806, William Burke was returned to the 
                        Kentucky
                     district, and Frederick Hood was sent to Salt River circuit.
                    Whether Mood ever came to the four appointments in the 
                        Grant
                     my information does not say, but it says that Joseph Oglesby, who was on the 
                        Shelby
                     circuit, supplied them a part of the year. I have endeavored to give an account in
                    consecutive order, of persons, places, and things in the 
                        Grant
                    , while it remained a small part of a circuit in 
                        Kentucky
                    . The reader must be aware that I have no means by which to ascertain the increase or
                    decrease of members from year to year, as the number in the 
                        Grant
                     were kept in connection with a circuit over the river.
            
               
                        Brookville
                    , Pa., January 16, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, April 10, 1846.
            No. XVIII
            In the fall of 1807, the appointments on the north of the Ohio river were
                    separated from the Salt River circuit, and called the Silver Creek circuit, and
                    remained a part of the 
                        Kentucky
                     district, to which William Burke was returned, and Moses Ashworth was appointed to the
                    new circuit. Ashworth commenced his work by enlarging the circuit, by visiting and taking in many
                    and distant places. A local preacher by the name of Chitwood, who settled about ten miles west of 
                        Madison
                    , on what they there call White river, being a branch of the
                    Muscatatock, told me some years ago that he moved to that vicinity the last day of 1807, and that
                    Ashworth preached at night, and formed a society. This society continued to  grow from year to year; for when I commenced traveling in that part of
                    the country in 1825, I found a large society in the neighborhood, and a log meeting-house which was
                    beginning to decay. He also formed another society a number of miles farther down the same stream,
                    some three or four miles west of where the town of 
                        Paris
                     is now built. A son and son-in-law of old Brother Robertson, the Methodist pioneer of
                    the 
                        Grant
                    , had settled there and invited the preacher to visit them, which he did, and formed a
                    small society which has continued to flourish until the present day. When I first knew this society
                    they had an old log meeting-house which had become too small for the densely populated region, and
                    they have superseded the old meeting-house with a new and large brick house, still retaining the
                    name of Mt. Pisgah. How many intermediate societies between these upper ones and 
                        Jeffersonville
                     were formed, I have not learned. In the winter of this year, there was a gracious
                    revival on the circuit, which was greatly aided by the labors of James Garner, a local preacher, who
                    had moved from 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1806, and settled in the 
                        Grant
                    . Garner was a man possessing a very large amount of common sense; and although his
                    literature was very limited, he was a man of extensive reading and research. He possessed, in an
                    eminent degree, a mechanical genius, which rendered him very useful in a new country. His piety was
                    deep; and for straight-forward honesty, there was no man in any age or country who was his superior.
                    Although he had been dead several years when I traveled 
                        Charlestown
                     circuit, I found his great moral worth had embalmed him in the memories and affections
                    of the people. He was a great lover and encourager of the traveling preachers; hence, he joined most
                    cordially with Ashworth, to spread and sustain the blessed revival in the new circuit.
            The return of members for Silver Creek at the close of its first year's separate existence,
                    was one hundred and eighty-eight. From this return, it seems that Methodism did not increase as fast
                    here as in the White Water country, for the same fall the return for White Water was three hundred
                    and fifty-two, although the last named circuit was later in obtaining preaching than the 
                        Grant
                    . It is true, the Silver Creek  circuit was a much
                    less territory and perhaps it had fewer inhabitants. At the conference in the fall of 1808, there
                    was formed a district called Indiana, embracing 
                  Missouri, Illinois
                and indiana,
                    with Samuel Parker for presiding elder, and Josiah Crawford on Silver Creek circuit. What new
                    societies were formed this year, or what weal or woe attended different societies, I am not
                    informed; but I find the number in the circuit increased from one hundred and eighty-eight to two
                    hundred and thirty-five, being an increase of forty-seven. Of Josiah Crawford I know nothing, only
                    that he was received on trial in the fall of 1807, and located in 1812. Parker I have before
                    noticed. In the fall of 1809, Silver Creek circuit was placed in the Green
                    River district, with William Burke on the district, and Sela Paine on the circuit. As I
                    said in a former number, I never knew Paine, and can say nothing of his talents and general
                    usefulness. I find, however, that he was useful this year; for the circuit, at the close of his
                    year, numbered three hundred and ninety-seven, being an increase of one hundred and sixty-two, which
                    was doing well in so sparse a population as was most of the circuit.
            At the conference in 1810, William Burke was continued on the Green River
                    district, and Isaac Lindsey was sent to the Silver Creek circuit, and my correspondent says Gabriel
                    Woodfill was also in the circuit. From some cause this was an unsuccessful year for the circuit, for
                    it fell down from three hundred and ninety-seven to three hundred and eighty-one, being a decrease
                    of sixteen, when we should have expected a good increase with two good preachers on it. Isaac
                    Lindsey I never knew, but I find from the Minutes he was received in 1808, and
                    located in 181.6, so that he traveled eight years. With Woodfill I was well acquainted at a
                    subsequent period. He was converted, I think, in the Red Stone country, and came to 
                        Kentucky
                     among the first Methodists in the state. He was a man of a very superior mind and body.
                    Most of his life he was a local preacher, and among the most useful of that worthy order. He was
                    received on trial once, but desisted from the regular work, as he had a family to provide for and
                    the amount preachers then received would not support a family. Whenever a preacher failed, or one
                    was wanting on the  work, he was ready to go when he could leave
                    home. Often he has filled vacancies and traveled on foot until his feet have been badly blistered.
                    Shortly after I first knew him, in the spring of 1816, he moved to 
                        Jefferson county
                    , Indiana. about four miles from 
                        Madison
                    , where he lived to a good old age, and died respected by all who knew him.
            At the conference in 1811, the Green River district lost its name and was called
                        Salt River, with James Ward for presiding elder. William M'Mahan
                    was received on trial this year, and appointed to Silver Creek circuit, when war and rumors of war
                    filled the land. I say war, because the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     battle was fought that fall. Many of the men from the 
                        Grant
                     and the surrounding country were in that battle, and more noble and brave men than they
                    were are not to be found anywhere. This battle produced excitement everywhere in the western
                    country; and, as much of Silver Creek circuit was frontier, the people were much alarmed, and built
                    block-houses and forts in many parts of the country, so that the preacher. had to take his gun and
                    go from station to station, to preach to the people of his charge and their fellow citizens. The
                    reader must conclude that this state of things was calculated to blast the prospects of religion, as
                    matter of fact has proved that, however the danger of war many humble the few and lead them to
                    repent and reform, it hardens the many, and makes them more profane, and wicked and presumptuous
                    than before. In this case, however, 
                        Providence
                     provided a strong counteraction in the shaking of the earth that fall and winter.
                    M'Mahan was young and zealous, eloquent and resolute, and the people received him
                    everywhere gladly as a messenger from God, and great was his success; for the circuit rose from
                    three hundred and eighty-one members to five hundred and fifty-five, being an increase of one
                    hundred and seventy-four. Besides serving his own charge, rendered difficult by the circumstances of
                    the times, he preached occasionally to the people of 
                        Madison
                     with much acceptability, and to their edification. This man now belongs to the Memphis
                    conference, and is somewhat advanced in age, but is still in the itinerant work. He was local a few
                    years.
            
            In the fail of 1812, James Ward was returned to the Salt River district, and
                    Thomas Nelson appointed to Silver Creek circuit. This year there was a very great decrease in the
                    circuit; for Nelson returned only three hundred and forty-one, being a decrease of two hundred and
                    fourteen, which was about two-fifths of the whole. Doubtless the reaction after the earth ceamd to
                    shake, and the horrid war spirit, will account for the great and sorrowful falling off which we have
                    to record. I never knew Nelson, although he went one round Gn the White Water circuit in the fall of
                    1809, but from all I ever heard of him, he was a good and useful man; and as for the presiding
                    elder, the world has never produced a superior for untiring zeal and energy. He is now an old man,
                    and not able to labor much; but thousands have been the seals to his ministry. His preaching
                    talents, in an intellectual point of view, are moderate; but if he is the best doctor who cures most
                    patients, and saves most lives, James Ward has been among the best preachers. With such men as these
                    in the work, the shrinkage could not be their fault, but it must have been their grief.
            At the conference in 1813, Charles Holliday was appointed to the charge of Salt
                    River district, and Charles Harrison, who had just been received on trial, was sent to
                    the charge of Silver Creek circuit. 
                        Harrison
                    , of whom I know nothing, for I do not find his name on the Minutes
                    after this year, had much success; for there was an increase of one hundred and fifty-nine members,
                    for the circuit now numbered four hundred and fifty, being one hundred and fifty-five less than when
                    M'illahan left it two years before.
            Such is the broad space which Charles Holliday has filled in the many departments of the work where
                    he has been placed, that I must leave it to his brethren of the 
                        Illinois
                     conference to speak of him after his decease, which cannot be far in the future.
                    Whether on a circuit or district, or in the book agency, his praise is in all the church. The fall
                    of 1814 found Charles Holliday again on the Salt Creek circuit. Ruark was received on trial in the 
                        Ohio
                     or Pittsburg conference. We were several years fellow-members of the 
                        Ohio
                     conference, but as we were never in contiguous fields of labor I know but  little about him. He was successful on the circuit this year, for he
                    returned five hundred and sixty-six, being an increase of one hundred and sixteen, so that the
                    circuit now numbered eleven more than it did three pears before.
            Charles Holliday was again returned to Salt River district in the fall of 1815,
                    and Joseph Kinkaid was sent to Silver Creek. How much prosperity there was this year on Silver
                    Creek, I do not know. The number reported was five hundred and eight, which was a decrease of
                    fifty-eight; but there was a circuit organized in 1815 called Blue River, which
                    I should judge took some preaching places and members from Silver Creek this year. I know not that
                    it was the fact, but I suppose that some years before this time the Silver Creek preachers crossed
                    the knobs, a range of very broken land west of Silver Creek, and formed societies in 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Harrison counties
                    . I do not know whether 
                        Washington County
                     was then organized, but the territory was there, and being settled, so that the people
                    needed preaching. It is not to be supposed that the venerable Dennis Pennington, who settled in what
                    is now 
                        Harrison county
                    , before such a county was organized, would do without preaching; for although he
                    figured in the early territorial legislature, he was a decided Methodist; and the 
                        Grant
                     was the nearest place for him to find a preacher of his own order.
            I have not been able to find in the Minutes when or where Joseph Kinkaid was
                    admitted on trial, or when he graduated to deacon's or elder's orders. The first
                    account which I have found of him on the Minutes, places him on the 
                        Zanesville
                     circuit in the fall of 1814, and marked as an elder. The next year he was sent to
                    Silver Creek circuit, where he married a respectable lady, the daughter of a popular and useful
                    local preacher named Cornelius Ruddle, and at the close of the year located. He was readmitted into
                    the 
                        Missouri
                     conference in the fall of 1821, and appointed to Blue River
                    circuit, but at the close of the year again he located. His health, which was feeble when he
                    located, continued to decline, and he did not live long as a local preacher, for he died March 17th,
                    1823. From what I could learn from his friends, he was a man of great firmness and resolution. As to
                    the grade of his talents,  and aptness for usefulness, I have no
                    information. The reader will find a short account of him in the first volume of the bound Minutes, page 425. From this account we learn that his end was peaceful and happy.
            In the fall of 1815, James Simmons was sent to Blue River circuit, which was
                    then a part of Salt River district. I suppose the circuit had been formed the
                    spring and summer preceding by some preacher, under the direction of the presiding elder, as there
                    was no such circuit in the fall of 1814. The circuit is reported to have had one hundred and
                    ninety-five members. The circuit, according to the usage of that day, received its name from a small
                    river which runs through 
                        Washington County
                    , and perhaps a part of 
                        Harrison county
                     also, and finds its way to the Ohio river at the now town of
                    Leavenworth. This circuit embraced Corydon, the county town of 
                        Harrison county
                    . It was for several years the seat of government for the Indiana territory. Here the
                    convention met in the summer of 1816, who formed the constitution of Indiana. It remained the seat
                    of government several years after Indiana became a state. The Blue River
                    circuit must have covered much territory; and it retained its name many years.
            I suppose that 
                        New Albany
                     being then a new town, was embraced in this circuit. This supposition, however, may not
                    be correct. Will some brother, who is well acquainted with the subject, give us an account of
                    Methodism in that flourishing and interesting city? Subsequently, 2 part of this circuit was lost in
                    that of 
                        Salem
                     and others.
            Of James Simmons I know nothing, only that he was received on trial by the 
                        Ohio
                     conference in the fall of 1815, and continued to travel in Indiana, 
                  Ohio, Kentucky
               ,
                    and 
                        Tennessee
                    , until the fall of 1819, when he located. He was successful on this new circuit, for it
                    increased from one hundred and ninety-five to two hundred and sixty, being an increase of
                    sixty-five.
            The reader must be aware that with only one short communication and the bound Minutes, as my only sources of early information, I must present a very meagre account of this
                    interesting field up to near the time when I became personally 
                    acquainted with it. I cannot tread with that firm step on unknown ground, and detail and exhibit
                    interesting events, as I can in that part of the work where I have had personal knowledge from the
                    beginning. I again express the wish, that some man on the ground, who can have access to the
                    original sources of information which is so much desired, would undertake to give it to the public.
                    A few more years, and the thrilling incidents of the past will have gone down to perpetual oblivion
                    until the judgment day, for the remaining fathers will have fallen asleep as most of their
                    associates have done already.
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , January 24, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, May 1, 1846.
            No. XIX
            In the spring of 1816, the General conference constituted the 
                        Missouri
                     annual conference, embracing 
                  Missouri, Illinois
               , and the larger
                    part of Indiana, so that these sketches will embrace parts of two conferences for many years to
                    come.
            At the 
                        Ohio
                     conference, which met in 
                  Louisville,
                            Kentucky
               , in September, 1816, Moses
                    Crume was appointed to the 
                        Miami
                     district and Benjamin Lawrence to White Water circuit, and William Hunt to 
                        Oxford
                    , and Russel Bigelow to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . In the same fall Samuel H. Thompson was appointed to the 
                        Illinois
                     district, in the 
                        Missouri
                     conference. The district embraced the territory of 
                        Illinois
                     and that part of the state of Indiana which was included in the conference last named.
                    Silver Creek and Blue River circuits were in Thompson's work, to the
                    former of which Joseph Pownal was sent, and John Cord, of precious memory, to the latter.
            As before intimated in a former number, I suppose White Water circuit was rather languid in its
                    religious state; but 
                        Lawrence
                     was then vigorous and zealous, and he commenced his work spiritedly and his labors were
                    attended with their usual success. I suppose the work now extended feather north in 
                        Wayne county
                    , than I have before mentioned. Perhaps it extended into 
                        Randolph county
                    . What new places were taken in, and what particular vicinities were blessed  with special revivals, I cannot tell. The circuit arose from four
                    hundred and ninety members to six hundred and seventy-four, being an increase of one hundred and
                    eighty-four. This was a large increase for a country, most of which was comparatively new. I suppose
                    the work was more general than local; for revivals under Brother Lawrence's labors were not
                    like a tornado and land flood which sweep everything before them, but like the gentle fertilizing
                    shower which makes everything flourish and grow delightfully. His sermons were short and calm, and
                    generally allegorical, but they touched the hearts of the hearers, and they were persuaded to be
                    religious, and they could hardly tell why, only that they ought to do so.
            William Hunt went on 
                        Oxford
                     circuit favorably known to the people, as but one year had intervened since he and John
                    Somerville had traveled there with so much popularity and success. He would probably have been as
                    popular and successful as formerly, if his way had not been obstructed by family affliction. I am
                    not sure, however, but another thing might have rendered him less useful. The conference had refused
                    to elect him to deacons' orders when he was received into full connection, as a punishment
                    for his early marriage, which rather soured his feelings, so that he might not have been as useful
                    as formerly. At what time in the year his excellent wife became afflicted, I do not know; but such
                    was the severity and length of her affliction, that after a few efforts to fill his appointments,
                    which were distant from the place of her residence at her father's, he had to surrender the
                    circuit, and the presiding elder placed John C. Brook, the junior preacher on 
                        Union
                     circuit, on 
                        Oxford
                    . How useful Brother Brook was, I cannot say; but any circuit, under similar
                    circumstances, is not likely to do well. The circuit began to retrograde, and instead of an increase
                    which might have been looked for under favorable circumstances, there was a falling off of one
                    hundred and thirty-two members; for the circuit decreased from seven hundred and twenty-four to five
                    hundred and ninety-two. I would be glad if I were in possession of interesting facts in connection
                    with these two circuits which would interest  the reader, but I
                    have them not, and he can as well guess at them as I can.
            By an examination of the Minutes, at the close of Griffith's second year
                    on the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit, it will be found that there were returned four hundred and eighty-nine
                    members. At the close of the next year there were three hundred and nineteen, and the next year two
                    hundred and ninety-three, so that this circuit did not recover its decline during the time of the
                    war, and prosper as did White Water and 
                        Oxford
                    ; but this year its captivity was turned. The good providence of God sent the meek, the
                    kind, the zealous Bigelow to labor on it in the fullness of the blessing of the Gospel of Christ. He
                    had nothing prepossessing in his person or manner; but the grace of God was with him. Hitherto he
                    had been junior preacher, but now he was in charge and alone, on a four weeks' circuit,
                    covering much ground, extending from opposite New Trenton, eleven miles below 
                        Brookville
                    , down to 
                        Madison
                    . The conseGuence was, that he was anxious to have some person to travel with him; and
                    he used all the arguments and persuasion of which he was capable, to prevail on the writer to travel
                    through the winter, if no longer. There were many difficulties in the way. He was poor, and had a
                    wife and five children, and had settled in the wild woods, two miles from where any person lived,
                    about fifteen or sixteen months before. He stated many objections, and among others expressed a
                    doubt whether his wife would be willing, under present circumstances, for him to go. Bigelow asked
                    him whether he would go, if his wife would consent. Thinking himself safe on that condition, he
                    answered yes. When they arrived at the house (for they were traveling alone in the woods), Bigelow
                    proposed the matter to the writer's wife, who, unexpectedly to him, gave her consent. He
                    then had no excuse, and commenced preparing as fast as he could for the work; and, with the
                    approbation of the presiding elder, commenced to itinerate on the first day of December, 1816. The
                    understanding was, that it was to be for three months only. Bigelow and he were as much united as
                    ever were David and Jonathan, and gave themselves to God and his work, and God blessed their joint
                    labors, though Bigelow was the soul of the concern. There was a 
                    gracious budding in almost all parts of the circuit. As the three months were drawing to a close,
                    these words, "It is not reason that we should leave the word of God and serve
                    tables," passed through the writer's mind day and night; and he finally consented
                    to travel until the end of the year.
            The same thoughts still impressed his mind toward the time of conference, and at the last quarterly
                    meeting he consented to let the quarterly meeting conference recommend him to the 
                        Ohio
                     conference, and he was received on trial in the summer of 1817, and the three
                    months' campaign has now lasted more than twenty-nine years; and he now sees no end to it
                    until death sounds a retreat. Could he have foreseen all its cares, and privations and labors, he
                    could never have begun; but he does not repent, though he has sometimes repented that he ever
                    started. Being on the circuit he can give details from his personal knowledge, which are interesting
                    to him, and he hopes to the reader.
            There were several new places taken into the circuit this year. There lived opposite the mouth of the
                        Kentucky river a man named George Ash, who had been taken prisoner by the
                    Indians when he was a boy. He had become an Indian in everything but the skin and hair. After the
                    Indians made peace with the whites, at the close of Wayne's campaign, he came to see his
                    friends in 
                        Kentucky
                    , and finally married a white wife, and settled on a valuable tract of land donated to him by the government at the request of the Indians. In the winter or spring
                    of this year, Samuel Bellamy, a local preacher, who had once traveled some, moved to Indiana and
                    rented land of Ash. He obtained Ash's consent to have preaching at his house, and then
                    hunted Bigelow up, and invited him to preach at Ash's, which he did willingly, and soon
                    formed a society. The Lord blessed the labors of the preachers, and great was the revival that year
                    in that vicinity. A large society was raised up which lasted several years, but by removals and
                    other causes it dwindled away.
            I deem it proper to digress a little, to give the reader the substance of a conversation which I once
                    had with Ash, after he had become truly religious. I had been preaching on a subject which led me to
                    speak of the union existing between  Christ and Christians, and
                    illustrated that union by the union of the vine and its branches. Ash told me that when he was among
                    the Indians their religious teachers, when in the act of teaching, used a piece of wood which was
                    carved in the form of a large human heart, with a number of smaller hearts adhering to it. The
                    larger one the teacher would say represents our elder brother, and the smaller ones myself and my
                    hearers. Ash seemed to think that they had, either from tradition or some other means, some notion
                    of Christ and his people, thus emblematically represented. He also related the following details.
                    Every spring the Indians have a rigid time of fasting and prayer. There was one infidel Indian, who
                    would not pray, but the others made him fast. He used to tell them the Great Spirit cared nothing
                    about their praying. The old grave Indians told him they could convince him of his mistake. One
                    morning they took him out in the woods and took Ash along to wait on them. They then formed
                    themselves into a circle, and commenced praying simultaneously, and at a signal which they had
                    before explained to Ash, he went round the circle and loosed their belts, so that whatever of
                    clothing they had on fell off, and at the same time he placed a small portion of tobacco of a kind
                    which they deem very precious on the palms of their hands, which they held up for that purpose, and
                    they then prayed more earnestly. The infidel Indian, who had been careless and indifferent all at
                    once sprang up and fell as a dead man. Ash ran to him to help him up, but the other Indians told him
                    to let the fallen man alone, who lay in a state of insensibility, with his tongue extended out of
                    his mouth, and he remained in that state until next morning, when he came to himself, and he then
                    stated that he had seen the world of spirits, where the wicked are in a state of dreadful torment.
                    He had been a very drunken Indian, but it was three years before he drank any more. He also
                    renounced his infidelity. Now, if this statement be true, and I have no reason to doubt
                    Ash's word, who dare say that God did not convert that Indian's soul in answer to
                    the sincere prayers of the benighted sons of the forest?
            The writer's own house also became a preaching place; and although he and his family were on
                    the night of the 8th  of July under a beech tree, two miles from
                    any habitation, in the course of this year there was a society of near forty raised up, of the
                    new-comers and of those who lived a few miles distant in the older settlement. One night, when there
                    was an appointment at his house for Bigelow to preach, the people collected so as to fill the house,
                    and under the first prayer the people began to scream for mercy so that the preaching had to be
                    dispensed with, and mourners be invited; and great was the work of the Lord that night.
            Another new place, where there was a glorious revival, was Allensville, a new village in the northern
                    part of 
                        Switzerland county
                    . The writer had preached there a few times the preceding year, and the word had some
                    affect, but there was nothing of special note that was visible. One day the text was, "The
                    eyes of the Lord are over the righteous," etc. In the exposition of the text, it was
                    remarked that when the Scriptures ascribe eyes and ears and hands and other bodily parts to the
                    Deity they were to be understood not literally, but as expressive of attributes and operations of
                    the Deity. There was present an intelligent lady who had been a confirmed deist for many years, who
                    had supposed that Christians believed all such expressions were to be understood as physically
                    descriptive of God and she had always regarded with contempt such a petty and local god, as the
                    expressions seemed to intimate the God of the Bible to be. She began to think more seriously about
                    the Bible and its doctrines than she had formerly done. Shortly afterwards she was riding alone in
                    the woods, and a limb fell from a tree which came very near striking her, and in her fright she
                    exclaimed, Lord Jesus; this alarmed her the more to think that she should invoke a name in which she
                    had no confidence, and for which she had no respect. In the winter or spring she went to hear
                    Bigelow preach and the Lord powerfully converted her soul, after which the power and goodness of God
                    were displayed in a wonderful manner all over the neighborhood.
            In the fall or winter there moved into the vicinity of Buchanan's station, mentioned
                    already, a man by the name of John Richey, who had been a local preacher in 
                        Kentucky
                    , but who had become unconnected with the church, and was in  a desperately fallen state. He came to hear the writer preach and
                    remained after meeting and entered into conversation about his condition. He stated that he had not
                    heard a traveling preacher preach for some years and had not read one chapter in the Bible for three
                    years; that it tortured him beyond endurance to read the Bible. Two weeks after, when Bigelow came
                    round, he joined the church and in a short time was reclaimed, and was made class-leader, then
                    exhorter, and then local preacher. He was among the most popular and useful local preachers in the
                    whole land, and many souls were brought to the knowledge of the truth by his instrumentality.
                    Unfortunately, his popularity procured him the office of county agent for 
                        Ripley county
                    , for which he was wholly unsuitable. He involved himself and his securities, and
                    injured his usefulness for the remainder of his life. He remained a local preacher until his death;
                    but the evening of his days was cloudy. O, that the people would let good and useful men remain
                    where they may be good and useful all their days.
            Perhaps few circuits ever had so many good, zealous, and successful local preachers, as 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     had that year, for Bigelow seemed to have infused his very soul into them. There was
                    one near 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , by the name of Hall, who was very useful; but he afterward believed that a part of his
                    family were bewitched and parts of other families were in the same condition; and down went his
                    usefulness. There was another near the Rising Sun, named Jenkins, who was exceedingly successful. He
                    and Hall moved away, and I know not what has become of them. Bellamy, before named, was a blessing
                    to the parts where he lived. William Stevens, now of the Pittsburg conference, who had been
                    prominent in the most important stations in 
                        New England
                    , settled at Hardinsburg as a merchant, and was useful; for he was a very talented and
                    powerful preacher in those days. He had once enjoyed the blessing of perfect love, and although he
                    was now somewhat shorn of his strength he used to preach the doctrine with power. There were several
                    other useful local preachers, but I have not room nor time to portray them all in these numbers.
            
            There were two successful camp meetings on the circuit this year. The first one was held in the
                    bottom of Crooked creek, in the rear of 
                        Madison
                    , not more than one-half mile from the centre of the town. It began on Friday, and moved
                    heavily the first day. The preachers who preached on that day seemed embarrassed. He who makes this
                    statement will never forget his up-hill performance. On Saturday, the 11 o'clock
                    appointment was reserved for Thomas Hellums, the second White Water preacher, who was expected at
                    the meeting. The writer who had been preaching some years from a sense of duty, had never felt a
                    desire to preach in all his life, but as 11 o'clock began to be near at hand, he felt, for
                    the first time in his life, some desire to preach; and just a few minutes before the time for
                    preaching, as Hellums had not come, Bigelow said to him, "You will have to
                    preach," which was not then unwelcome news. He asked Bigelow where to find this passage:
                    "The wicked is driven away in his wickedness; but the righteous hath hope in his
                    death." Bigelow immediately named the chapter and verse, and God filled his mind and heart
                    with matter, and he preached with uncommon liberty and success for him. How many souls were
                    awakened, he and others will never know until the day of eternity. Twelve or fifteen came to the
                    altar, and conversions commenced and continued to the end of the meeting; for just before the
                    meeting was dismissed, Sister James Cowden, now living in 
                        Madison
                    , was powerfully converted. Who preached on the Sabbath at the several hours is not
                    recollected. The writer was not one of them; for it was several days before he felt as if he could
                    preach any more. The closing sermon on Monday morning was preached by Bigelow with uncommon ability
                    and power.
            This meeting, in its results, was most glorious. The preachers had to leave immediately to attend to
                    their regular work, but the revival continued by day and by night for weeks. Part of the time all
                    regular business was suspended. The people were converted in the church and private houses, and even
                    in the streets. Many happy souls are safely landed who were the fruits of that meeting. When the
                    preachers came on the next year, they found most of the young men in the town converted  and in the church, and many old ones, too; for Dr. Oglesby, and Richey
                    and others, had kept up regular meetings. O, what power and glory did rest on the people for months!
                    This work spread in different directions, so that scores upon scores were saved by means of this,
                    the first camp meeting in that part of Indiana.
            The other camp meeting was on a hill side, near to where an old Brother Milburn lived, on or near
                    South Hogan. If the reader should ever travel from Wilmington to 
                        Aurora
                    , when he is about three-quarters of a mile from the former town, if he will look down
                    to the right he will see an old log house where Milburn used to live, and where the meetings for
                    that region were held for many years. About thirty or forty rods west from that house is the sacred
                    spot where the camp ground was on which the camp meeting was held, and where B. Bigelow closed his
                    official labors for 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit on Monday morning, when it was hard to determine whether he seemed more on
                    earth or in heaven. This meeting was not equal to the 
                        Madison
                     meeting in some respects, but it is presumed there were as many conversions as at the
                    other. It was closed with a march and a farewell by shaking hands. Such a time of weeping at parting
                    I never saw. I knew one who wept his eyes and heart sore, and had all his sorrow for nothing; for he
                    was sent back to the circuit the next year. We was cautious of such closes ever since, for a burned
                    child dreads the fire. The circuit, in general, was in a most flourishing state, and rose from two
                    hundred and ninety-three to six hundred, being an increase of three hundred and seven. Indeed, it
                    rose to more than that, but Bigelow humorously observed, we will throw in the balance for good
                    count.
            In the spring of the year, Bigelow married. Whether he made such a bargain as Mr. Wesley did, that he
                    was not to travel one mile less nor preach one sermon less, I do not know; but I do know he never
                    lost one appointment in consequence of his marriage. He left his wife at her father's,
                    above the Little Miami, and only saw her two or three times in the course of the summer.
            Joseph Pownal, who was sent to Silver Creek circuit, was an excellent young man, who had been two
                    years in the work.
            
            He was a strict disciplinarian, and a good preacher. Whether he enlarged his circuit or not, I cannot
                    say; but I discover from the Minutes, he had a good work on his circuit. A goodly
                    number of his people were at camp meeting at 
                        Madison
                    , and shared largely in its saving influences. The circuit rose from five hundred and
                    eighty to seven hundred and seventeen, which was an increase of two hundred and nine. Silver Creek
                    circuit was then one of the most delightful in Indiana, and used to abound in good and successful
                    camp meetings, and had more good meeting-houses, at that day, than all Indiana beside. I cannot,
                    however, give the details of this year's progress.
            The same fall, 1816, John Cord, of precious memory, was sent to the comparatively new Blue
                        River circuit. This circuit was large, and much of it sparsely settled. Cord was much
                    blessed of the Lord in his labors; and those who knew him could expect nothing less, for he was
                    among the most holy and faithful men of modern day. The circuit increased from two hundred and sixty
                    to four hundred and forty, which was an increase of one hundred and eighty. John Cord was received
                    on trial by the Western conference in the fall of 1811; and with the exception of 1819, and 1820,
                    when he located in consequence of a loss by fire, he traveled until the fall of 1826, when he was
                    superannuated. His travels were in 
                  Ohio, Kentucky, Missouri
               , and Indiana. Perhaps, at some times, a part of his work was in 
                        Illinois
                    . I remember seeing him at 
                        Bloomington
                     in the fall of 1826, when his face was pale, and his former uncommonly strong frame was
                    emaciated, so that he seemed to be almost gone; but, O, how joyful was his soul while, with heavenly
                    shouts and tears of joy, he came up into the pulpit and took Bishops Roberts and Soule into his bony
                    arms. He died happy the next spring, and his worthy widow and children yet live in 
                        Bloomington
                    . May Heaven protect them.
            
               
                        Brookville
                    , January 27, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, May 8, 1846.
            
            No. XX
            The fall of 1817 found Moses Crume on 
                        Miami
                     district, William Hunt on White Water circuit, Russel Bigelow and Samuel Brown on 
                        Oxford
                    , Samuel West and Allen Wiley on 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Samuel H. Thompson on the 
                        Illinois
                     district, and John Cord on the Silver Creek circuit, and Othniel Talbert on
                        Blue River.
            Hunt was much hindered this year, also, by the protracted illness of his good wife, who was safely
                    landed in a world of health toward the close of the year. Poor Hunt was almost swallowed up with
                    grief for the loss of his beloved Matilda. The year was not one of much prosperity on the circuit,
                    but Hunt did his duty so far as family affliction would permit, and the circuit was left in a
                    healthy state. There was a decrease of twelve members, which could not be regarded as a declension
                    under all the circumstances. Hunt had a colleague a part of this year in the person of James T.
                    Wells, who was a good man and very conscientious, but his conscience was of that troublesome kind
                    which was a great inconvenience to himself and all persons with whom he had much connection or
                    intercourse. Upon the whole, he was not much calculated to advance the work. This good but singular
                    brother will appear before us again.
            
               
                        Oxford
                     circuit was favored with a very great amount of talent this year. I have before
                    mentioned the talented Bigelow; and I hope before I am done with these sketches to portray him more
                    fully, so that I need say no more about him at the present. Samuel Brown was a man of great mental
                    peculiarities, which made him less useful than he otherwise would have been. He was a man of much
                    reading, and had as good and critical knowledge of the English language as any man with whom I have
                    ever been acquainted. Notwithstanding the defects of his judgment in many things, he was an able
                    preacher, and could speak and write with much elegance and taste. The great and little were so
                    equally blended in him, that it was hard to determine whether he was a man of a sound mind or not.
                    He was admitted on trial in 1812, and traveled ten years, and was in some places and some part of
                         the time useful. He became embarrassed in pecuniary
                    matters, and located with a view to pay his debts, but his want of financial skill still involved
                    him more and more. He moved to 
                        Iowa
                    , where he joined the Protestant Methodists. I believe he is now in 
                        Kentucky
                     or Indiana, poor and embarrassed; I pity him, for I believe he has a better heart than
                    head. The circuit prospered with these two strong theologians on it. It increased from five hundred
                    and ninety-two to seven hundred and eight, being an increase of one hundred and sixteen.
            The 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit was in a prosperous state when West and Wiley were sent to it, and the gracious
                    work still continued. Neither of the preachers was what might be called a revival preacher; but the
                    wonderful impetus given to the work under Bigelow's labors lasted all the next year. The
                    local preachers still labored as before, and were successful. The circuit was extended north this
                    year by the addition of a new preaching place on the Flats, nine miles southwest from 
                        Brookville
                    . The place was then known as Price's settlement, now as 
                        Franklin
                     meeting-house, where there is a large and flourishing society. This was a prosperous
                    year for 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , as there came several valuable members from other places and settled there. Some of
                    the substantial citizens joined the church, some of who mare still living and holding on in the good
                    way; but all the old members, except three or four, are gone to other parts of the land, or another
                    world. What was then known as the Greenbrier Ridge, now as 
                        Manchester
                    , began to be settled by several enterprising families from the state of 
                        Maine
                    , among whom was David Plummer, a local preacher, who, while his health was good,
                    preached more and with more acceptability than most local preachers, and this he did for many years.
                    Perhaps three-fourths of the expense in building the 
                        Manchester
                     church was borne by him. I do not think there was regular preaching established there
                    this year, but the foundation was being laid for the large and flourishing society which is now in
                    that region.
            A small society was also formed at George Smith's, on the Ridge, between Hogan and Laughery,
                    near where the present Mt. Tabor meeting-house now stands. The small society then formed was the
                    beginning of the present large one. There  was an effort made to
                    establish a society on Laughery, near the southwest part of 
                        Dearborn county
                    ; but the effort was a failure. This stream, or the people on it, seemed to bid defiance
                    to all attempts to evangelize it, until a few years pasi; and even now it is only partially spotted
                    with religious societies.
            There were two good camp meetings on the former camp grounds on the circuit this year. When, however,
                    we say they were good, I could not be understood to say they would compare with the former meetings.
                    There was much more preaching talent at those meetings than the former; but there was not the same
                    zeal in the preachers or people. The circuit rose this year from six hundred to nine hundred and
                    five; but the increase was not the best part of the work. West, although rather a phlegmatic
                    preacher, was a very superior divine, and his sermons were well adapted to inform the judgment, and
                    confirm the heart. I know such preachers as he are not in high repute with some, but this merely
                    proves the morbid sentimentality of the public mind, and not the correctness of that mind. His most
                    amiable wife, Rebecca. was also a great blessing where she mingled with the people. She has been
                    safely landed on the peaceful shores of a better world some years. By the direction of the presiding
                    elder, the circuit was returned as two circuits, the lower end being called 
                        Madison
                    .
            Silver Creek circuit was favored this year with the labors of John Cord. We may say of him as Luke
                    says of Barnabas: 
                        He was a good man, and full of the Holy Ghost, and of faith; and much people was added to the
                            Lord.
                    
            
            Cord was a dark-skinned, homely man, whose voice and manner were everything but graceful and
                    attracting; but with all the disadvantages named, his amiableness, his piety, his goodness of heart,
                    gave him access to every person who had not the heart of a demon. The Lord blessed the labors of
                    Cord; and the circuit increased from seven hundred and seventeen to eight hundred and forty-eight,
                    being an increase of one hundred and thirty-one. I know nothing of the places which were especially
                    favored with revivals, and what special means were used to promote the good cause.
            
            I find Othniel Talbert received on trial by the 
                        Missouri
                     conference, and placed on the Blue River circuit. The increase on
                    the circuit was only ten. I suppose the brother named in the Minutes to be a
                    worthy local preacher, who now lives about fifteen miles northeast of 
                        Greencastle
                    . With this Brother Talbert I am acquainted, and it strikes me he did not go to the
                    appointment, or if he did go he either left before the year ended, or at the close of the year
                    retired from the work; and as I have before said, when a man intends to retire at the end of the
                    year he had better do it at once, unless he is merely employed by the elder for a given time.
            My little personal knowledge of the country and the work makes me almost sorry that I have crossed
                    the Knobs. I did it mainly that I might have a chance to warm my heart, in writing a few things
                    about the blessed John Cord; but if I had looked a little farther in the Minutes,
                    I might have noticed him, and kept in my intended bounds. My work is so enlarging, that I have not
                    room to say much about him at last. Having crossed this wonderful rise (called the Knobs) to a table
                    land which inclines westward, I may continue brief notices of the work in that part of the state. I
                    would be glad if brethren would furnish me the necessary information.
            In the summer of 1818, there was a new arrangement of some parts of this work, for a part of the 
                        Miami
                     district was detached and placed in what was called 
                        Lebanon
                     district, with Moses Crume on it, and William Hunt on a new circuit, partly in Indiana
                    and partly in 
                        Ohio
                    , called 
                        Greencastle
                    , after a town, and, I think, fort of that name. Allen Wiley and Zechariah Connell were
                    the preachers for White Water circuit; John Sale was on the 
                        Miami
                     district; and Russel Bigelow for 
                        Oxford
                    . The presiding elder employed Moses Hinkle (now of the 
                        Kentucky
                     conference) to travel a part of the year with Bigelow. Benjamin Lawrence was sent to
                    Lawrence circuit, and John P. Kent to Madison; and in the course of the year, Sale employed Robert
                    Delap (now of the Rock River conference) to travel with Kent.
            Jesse Haile was on the 
                        Illinois
                     district, and David Sharp on the Silver Creek circuit, and William Mavity on Indian
                    Creek, and John (it should have been Joseph) Pownal on Blue  River. Hunt began his work with a gloomy mind and heavy
                    heart, but with what success I cannot say, although we were contiguous. Sometime in the fall or
                    beginning of winter, he married his former wife's sister. As this was then a new thing to
                    most of the people, it raised the most wonderful excitement among the people which I ever witnessed.
                    Some thought it incest, while others doubted. Crume, the presiding elder, thought it unscriptural,
                    and summoned a committee to investigate the case, but the committee failed to attend, so that there
                    was no official expression about the matter. Hunt was induced to retire from the circuit in the
                    spring. After his retirement, Crume took Connell from White Water to supply the place. What
                    prosperity was on the circuit is unknown to me; for as it was a new circuit, with a few old
                    appointments, the increase does not appear on the Minutes. At the end of the year,
                    the number was one hundred and fifty-four.
            Wiley started to his circuit early in September, and traveled a blind trace mostly through the
                    wilderness. Night overtook him about fifteen miles before he reached 
                        Brookville
                    , when he was a number of miles from any house. He had stopped to feed his beast at a
                    lonely house, and fearing he might have to stay in the woods he begged some corn dodger, or had
                    brought some from home, for he remembers having some to eat at night. When night came on, he held
                    his beast and let her eat peavine awhile, and then placed himself between the projecting roots of a
                    large standing elm, with his big coat on, and his bridle fastened around his wrist; and in
                    consequence of great fatigue, he was soon sleeping soundly, and would have rested well the forepart
                    of the night, if the animal had not moved his hand frequently and waked him. The reader will say,
                    why did you not hitch her and sleep better? He was afraid something might scare her and make her
                    break loose, and from her known habits, he could not catch her in the wilderness; but such was his
                    confidence in her, that if she should scare, he could speak softly to her, and she would not hurt
                    him. Toward morning he became very much chilled, having been heated by exeytion in the day, and
                    resting on the  ground at night. The result was, a weakness in
                    the small of the back, which is yet troublesome at times.
            He commenced his work at a good camp meeting near Doddridge's meeting-house, where he and
                    his pleasant colleague met. They commenced their work in good spirits, finding their circuit among
                    the best in the land. They made their circuit a five weeks' one, preaching about thirty-two
                    or three regular sermons in a twenty-nine days beside some extra ones. P have said the circuit was a
                    good one, by which I mean the members were pious in the main, and they embodied more intelligence
                    than most circuits.
            There were several superior local preachers in the circuit. Joshua Holland, before named, was a great
                    lover of the traveling preachers, and did all he could to make them acceptable and useful. Holland
                    still lives, in age and feebleness. Thomas Silvey was another popular and successful man in the
                    work. Silvey has been dead several years. Charles Hardy was another very grave and sweet-spirited
                    man. He was admitted on trial in 1786, about three years before the writer was born. He traveled six
                    years, part of the time being presiding elder. This brother still lives, and preaches some, and is
                    yet fond of riding on horseback. To see him and talk with him, seems to lead one back to another
                    age. It is now full sixty years or more since he began to warn sinners with much success. How many
                    spiritual sons and daughters must he have in glory. He will soon arise and go and meet them. There
                    were some new places taken into the circuit in the beginning of the year. One was Dr.
                    Dunham's, near where Liberty, the county town of 
                        Union county
                    , now is; but there was no 
                        Union county
                     then organized. Another new place was 
                        Connersville
                    , the county town of 
                        Fayette county
                    ; but I am not sure that 
                        Fayette county
                     was then organized. Joshua Harlan, who had once been a Methodist, but who was then a
                    confirmed Universalist, opened his house for preaching, and he and his family used the preachers
                    well. The preacher in charge having to go fifty miles to see his family where he could stay two days
                    and two pieces of days in the winter, and four days in the summer, was not able to enlarge the work
                    much more, as there were more than thirty sermons to preach each round.
            
            The White Water country had nearly as many Arians, commonly called Newlights, as Methodists in it, so
                    that the senior preacher in his second sermon commenced the controversy on the subject of Arianism,
                    and had more or less of it in almost every sermon which he preached the whole year. He was careful
                    not to indulge in bitterness of spirit or in railing expressions, but to use the strongest arguments
                    of which he was capable, and he verily believes God helped him; and to the praise of God's
                    grace be it spoken, that error began to wane rapidly, and now is hardly known to exist in the
                        White Water valley. Wiley and Connell spent six months together in most
                    pleasant union, and formed attachments which it is hoped will never end. When Connell was removed to
                    Greenville, Benjamin T. Crouch (now of 
                        Kentucky
                     conference), who then lived in 
                        Brookville
                    , was licensed and placed on the circuit in the place of Connell. Benjamin (the son of
                    my right hand) was lovely, and his elder brother loved him as a darling son. O, that he were as
                    formerly!
            There had been so much imposition on the families in the vicinities of camp meetings, that the people
                    were unwilling to have any at the close of the year, which was an affliction to the preachers. Three
                    weeks before the close of the year, Wiley had a two days' meeting four miles from 
                        Brookville
                     in the barn of Thomas Smith, the son-in-law of the memorable Benjamin Abbott. At this
                    meeting he consulted with Smith, Father Hardy, and others, about having a camp meeting. He was met
                    with the formidable objection of oppression, which would be more than ordinary at the present, as
                    the grain must of necessity be in the shock in the field. He told them all he wanted of them, was to
                    select a camp ground and prepare it, which they consented to do, on the land of Charles Collet,
                    about four or five miles above 
                        Brookville
                    , on the West river. He then wrote to Crouch to give out the camp
                    meeting, and to tell all to come with their wagons, and grain, and hay, and feed troughs and
                    watering buckets, for we did not intend to feed man, woman, or child, horse, ox or ass, and I gave
                    out the meeting in the same way. We met on the ground at the time, and all, except a few from a
                    contiguous circuit, and the preachers, of whom we had plenty, were provided for. There were  a few other exceptions in the persons of a few young men, who
                    were in the habit of going to camp meetings, far and near, to sponge. Wiley went round to all the
                    tent holders, and earnestly begged them not to give these vagrants anything to eat. The request was
                    complied with, and they stayed, and starved, sometime, but finally sloped. There was no interruption
                    about the meeting, and the Lord worked gloriously, and many souls were converted. On Monday forenoon
                    the altar was cleared, and all who professed to be converted at the meeting were invited in, and
                    there was a goodly number of them, and it was ascertained that some who had professed religion had
                    left. The altar was then cleared again, and all who wished to join the church were invited into it,
                    when more than thirty came and took their seats.
            All these exercises were calm and deliberate, for there was no singing allowed. The preacher in
                    charge wrote the names of the persons on notes of admission which he had prepared, directing the
                    holders to present them to the several class-leaders, when they went home, which nearly all did. The
                    fruit of this meeting spread all round, and there were most glorious times when the next preachers
                    came on the circuit. The writer still thinks camp meetings should be held in that way, and then we
                    need not care when nor where we hold them, if there be a sufficiency of water for the use of man and
                    beast. We had Crume, and Lawrence and Brown from a distance to help us, and our own preachers, so
                    that all passed off well. The meeting was immediately at the close of harvest. The circuit increased
                    this year from six hundred and sixty-two to eight hundred and forty-five, after making allowance for
                    those detached to Greenville circuit, if any were detached; and I think there were a few societies.
            Bigelow had not so much success on 
                        Oxford
                     this year as on the former, unless some of his societies were also thrown into
                    Greenville circuit, which J think was probably done. I stated that the presiding elder employed
                    Moses Hinkle to travel part of the year, with Bigelow, but I was mistaken; for it was the preceding
                    year. What became of 
                        Brown
                     that part of the year, I do not know. When I say Bigelow was not so successful as he
                    had been, I do not wish the reader to understand  that there was
                    any falling off in his industry and popularity. He preached several times in 
                        Brookville
                     that year with great acceptability. The increase in his charge was only two, unless
                    some were taken off to Greenville, as has been conjectured. The people, however, were built up in
                    knowledge and holiness.
            Lawrence had most glorious times on 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit this year. The work widened and deepened in every direction and he returned
                    five hundred and seventy-one on his part of the old circuit. What the actual increase was, I do not
                    know; for I do not remember how many fell to his part of the circuit. Kent also had most glorious
                    times on the 
                        Madison
                     part of the circuit. The 
                        Ohio
                     conference then met in August, so that he had time to hold a camp meeting in the fall
                    after he went to the circuit. The meeting was on the old ground, and was a good and successful
                    meeting. He and Delap were well received, and had prosperity in nearly all parts of the circuit.
                    They wound up the year with a camp meeting on Indian creek, about three or four miles from 
                        Vevay
                    . This meeting was well attended, and was attended with success.
            It would have been better, if the preachers and people had not imbibed the spirit of the Corinthians;
                    when one said, I am for Paul, and another for Apollos. One of the preachers was understood to preach
                    against shouting, and another preached in favor of it, in direct opposition to the former preacher,
                    who, however, was misunderstood. There was a preacher there from 
                        Kentucky
                    , who was the most extravagant man for pulpit drollery I ever knew. I regarded him as a
                    profaner of sacred things; and I then thought, and yet think, such preachers are a curse to the
                    church and the world. The return for this year was seven hundred and fifty-two. What the true
                    increase was cannot be ascertained; for as, in the case of the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     part of the circuit, so of the 
                        Madison
                     part, I do not know what number fell to it. Take the two circuits together, and the
                    return one thousand three hundred and three, which makes an increase of three hundred and
                    ninety-eight.
            Kent was an amiable young man, and calculated to be useful in winning souls. He had not much
                    profundity or originality  of thought but made a good use of
                    what he knew. I presume he has made much improvement since that day. He now belongs to the Genesee
                    conference. Delap was a warmhearted man, who did much good. He was rather fond of singing the
                    doggerel trash of the times, which is superseding cur excellent hymns. He was received on trial in
                    the summer of 1819 by the 
                        Ohio
                     conference. He traveled many circuits in different parts of the country, and was
                    superannuated many years. I see from the Minutes of 1844, he had an appointment in
                    the Rock River conference. If the Judge should say in the final judgment:
                        
                        Roberts, what account can you give for the hours, days, weeks, months, and even years, you
                            have spent in smoking your pipe, to say nothing about the expense?
                    
            
            I think he will feel a little queer, and find, if saved at all, it is by fire.
            What amount of prosperity Sharp had on Silver Creek, I do not know; but he was well received, and
                    passed well with his people. The return of the circuit is far below what it was the preceding year.
                    The report for this year is five hundred and sixty, being two hundred and eighty-eight less than the
                    former year. This decrease may be accounted for without supposing there was actually any decrease. I
                    find a new circuit called Indian Creek, with four hundred and eighty-six members. I suppose this
                    circuit was formed out of Silver Creek and Blue River, and embraced Corydon and
                    the country around it. I am strengthened in my supposition from the fact that the name of Indian
                    Creek continues on the Minutes until there is a Corydon circuit, and then Indian
                    Creek is lost. William Mavity was received on trial by the 
                        Missouri
                     conference in the fall of 1818, and sent to Indian Creek. I have already given the
                    number of members on the circuit. Whether there was an increase or decrease is unknown, as we do not
                    know how many were taken from neighboring circuits. I find Mavity's name no more, until the
                    fall of 1827, when he is again admitted on trial, and appointed to Booneville circuit. He continued
                    to travel some years; but as I have not the second volume of the bound Minutes at
                    hand to trace his travels,  I can say but little concerning him.
                    I think he is dead; but whether he died in the traveling connection or the local, I cannot say. He
                    was a zealous and useful man.
            The pious Joseph Pownal had some prosperity on the Blue River circuit, for he
                    reported five hundred and six members, which was an increase of fifty-six. If a part of that circuit
                    was added to Indian Creek, as I have supposed, the increase was greater. Take the entire membership
                    for Silver Creek, Indian Creek, and Blue River, and it amounts to fifteen
                    hundred and fifty-two, being two hundred and fifty-four more than Silver Creek and Blue
                        River had the year before. Take the entire field which we have traveled over in this
                    number, and we have a membership of four thousand five hundred and forty-six, which amounts to nine
                    hundred and fifty-five of an increase in the last year, commencing in the fall of 1818.
            
               
                  Brookville, Ia.
               , January 28, 1846.
            
               Western Christian Advocate, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Friday, May 15, 1.846.
            (To be continued.)
         
         
         
            Indian History of 
                        Bartholomew county
                    
            
            GEORGE PENCE, 
                        Columbus
                    
            
            The earliest date given for possession by the Indians of the territory now embraced by the county of 
                        Bartholomew
                    , is the year 1621. On July 19, 1701, the Five Nations made their deed to the English
                    King to the "Beaver Lands," a tract of land measuring 800 miles in length and 400
                    miles in width. The western boundary of this immense empire of land passed through the present state
                    of Indiana on a direct line from the extreme southern point of 
                        Lake
                        Michigan
                    , at an Indian town called Quadoghe, to the Falls of the Ohio
                    river. The Indians claimed in their deed that they had owned this land for 80 years under
                    a title of conquest. This boundary in its east-of-south course from the lake, strikes,
                    approximately, the southwest corner of 
                        Bartholomew county
                    .
            The Five Nations, commonly called the Iroquois tribe, having taken the side of the British in the War
                    of the Revolution, ceded to the King all their claims to these lands west of the western boundary of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , by reason of the occupation by General George Rogers Clark, these lands were
                    acknowledged to the Colonies at the treaty with Great Britain at 
                        Paris
                     in 1783.
            Following the War of the Revolution there was a constant conflict between the whites and the Indians
                    in the territory northwest of the Ohio river, particularly within the present
                    confines of the state of 
                        Ohio
                    , and lasted until the treaty at 
                        Greenville
                    , in 
                        Ohio
                    , concluded August 3, 1795.
            A number of separate treaties had been made with Indian tribes only to be broken by the red men who
                    were opposed to the settlements of the whites, north of the Ohio river.
            Two American armies, one under General Josiah Harmar, the second under General Arthur St. Clair, had
                    been defeated and utterly routed by the tribes in 
                        western Ohio
                    , and not until President Washington had commissioned General Anthony Wayne to command
                    the western army, was there a suspension of hostilities—and then only a temporary one.
            
            
               
                        Wayne
                     made a treaty with eleven separate tribes and by its terms the greater portion of the
                    present state of 
                        Ohio
                    , together with a wedge in the southeastern corner of the present state of Indiana,
                    called the "gore," which includes portions of the counties of 
                  Jay, Randolph, Wayne, Union, Franklin
               , all of 
                  Dearborn,
                            Ohio
               , and tlie greater part of 
                        Switzerland
                    , were ceded to the 
                        United States
                    .
            Subsequent treaties were made with different tribes for lands in Indiana territory, which was the
                    more easily effected from the fact of their decreasing members caused by the wars among the tribes
                    themselves.
            William Henry Harrison, who had been appointed governor of Indiana territory, under instructions of
                    President Jefferson, pushed his efforts to extinguish the Indian title along the Ohio
                        river below the mouth of the Kentucky river. On June 7, 1803, he
                    obtained title to the 
                        Vincennes
                     donation.
            On August 7th, 1803, he obtained title to a tract, 40 by 85 miles from 
                        Vincennes
                     to the Ohio Falls. And on August 18, 1804, by treaty, obtained
                    title to all land between the 
                        Wabash
                     and Ohio rivers south of the line from 
                        Vincennes
                     to the Falls, and in this last treaty the claims of the 
                        Delaware
                     tribe were recognized for all lands between White river and the
                        Ohio river. In Article IV of the treaty that tribe, only, would be treated
                    for the aggregation of these lands to the 
                        United States
                    .
            This was smooth diplomacy of General Harrison and the separation of lands to different tribes was
                    most vigorously and openly opposed by that great leader of red men, the Shawaneese Tecumseh.
            This last treaty was the first one that particularly affects or mentions the land now embraced within
                    the confines of 
                        Bartholomew county
                    .
            A period of fourteen years rolled by before the lands of the Delawares, which embrace all of central
                    Indiana, including 
                        Bartholomew county
                    , were ceded to the 
                        United States
                    . This was effected at St. Mary's, in 
                        Ohio
                    , on October 2nd, 3rd and 6th, 1818.
            The treaty, and its terms, are too lengthy to recite at this time, but it granted 79 millions of
                    acres, or 11,780 square miles, enough to make nearly 30 counties of as good land as a  crow ever flew over. The Delawares were given possession of their
                    improvements for three years, if it was so long required.
            On a former occasion I told you of the fact that many of the tracts in 
                        Bartholomew county
                     were squatted, to be held for future entry and purchase of the land
                    thus selected. This began early in the spring of 1819.
            So much for the abstract of title to the Indian lands within the boundaries of 
                        Bartholomew
                    , and now for the relation of a few facts of the history-making in our neighborhood, by
                    its pioneers. One of the most noted characters, and most detested was a white man, the renegade,
                    Simon Girty. He was the villian in many an Indian story of the days following the Revolutionary war,
                    and until after the War of 1812.
            Girty was born in Sherman's Valley in 
                  Perry county, Pennsylvania
               , in
                    January, 1744. His father was killed in a drunken spree, and his mother was murdered by the Indians
                    in 1756, when young Girty was taken captive and adopted by the Seneca Indians. In 1764 at the close
                    of the Pontiac war under the conditions of the treaty all prisoners taken by the Indians were given
                    up to the whites. Girty was thus returned, but preferring the wild life of the savages he ran off
                    and returned to the tribe. He was again returned to the whites, when he settled on Girty's
                    Run, near Pittsburg. Later he was in the Dunmore war when he served as a scout. In this capacity he
                    became acquainted with Col. William Crawford and family, and it is said, sought the hand in marriage
                    of one of the daughters of the colonel. At the beginning of the Revolutionary war Girty was an
                    officer of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     militia, but in 1777 he deserted to the British from Fort Pitt.
            In 1781 the renegade led the Indians in their fierce onslaught upon the pioneer settlements in 
                        Kentucky
                    , and the next year, June 11, 1782, he was present at one of the most inhuman deeds ever
                    perpetrated by man, the burning at the stake of Col. William Crawford, his old-time acquaintance.
                    Crawford and a number of his troopers had been made captive by the Wyandotte and Shawanee Indians.
                    The details of this tragedy are too cruel and inhuman to relate, and the  refusal of Girty to intercede, in any wise, was inhuman. While taking
                    no active part in cruelties, he sat upon his horse, at some distance, looking on the act of the
                    savages with malignant satisfaction for more than two hours.
            The connection of our story with Girty, and the Crawford tragedy, is the fact that one of the
                    pioneers of 
                        Bartholomew county
                    , Thomas McQueen, was in Crawford's command against the Indians, and had been
                    made a captive with his colonel, and was an eyewitness to the dastardly deed.
            Thomas McQueen, whose body lies in Liberty graveyard, six miles north of 
                        Columbus
                    , was the forebear of the McQueen family of Flatrock township.
            Girty, also, on February 11, 1781, while on one of his Indian forays in 
                        Kentucky
                    , captured three men, Irvin Hinton, Richard Rue and George Holman, some eight miles from
                    the village of 
                        Louisville
                    . The captors were composed of 13 Shaw-anees together with the renegade white, Simon
                    Girty. After conducting the captives to the 
                        Ohio
                    , it was crossed in three canoes, and a general northern route taken through our
                        white river country, thence along Blue river toward
                    Wapakoneta, in 
                        Ohio
                    . Hinton was a married man with family, living at the village of 
                        Louisville
                    . Girty warned him not to attempt to escape, as a recapture would mean the stake.
                    However, Hinton managed to escape at night time, and started in the direction of the Ohio
                        river. He was recaptured the following day, and met the fearful penalty which had
                    been threatened by Girty.
            Rue and Holman were brought before the tribal convention and both condemned to the stake, but both
                    were saved by adoption before the fire was lighted, Rue being taken as a son, and Holman as a
                    brother.
            After three and a half years they managed to make their escape and in time safely reached 
                        Louisville
                    . Later both removed to 
                        Wayne county
                    , Indiana, and settled below the town of 
                        Richmond
                    . Holman was the forbear of one of our congressmen, the late William I. Holman.
            During the intervening period of the treaties of 1804 and 1818, troublesome times were encountered by
                    the whites who  were endeavoring to settle on the ceded lands
                    south of 
                        Bartholomew
                    , caused by marauding bands of Indians.
            The battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     was fought on November 7, 1811, and the second war with 
                        England
                     had been fought to a finish during this interval between treaties. Many tribes were
                    engaged in the war—commonly called the War of 1812, and many young warriors under the
                    influence of British gold and the eloquence and influence of Tecumseh had taken sides with the
                    British.
            Two soldiers of the 1812 war participated in the war in the Northwest against the Indians under
                    Tecumseh, and later became residents and lived in 
                        Bartholomew
                    .
            The first was William S. Jones, a member of one of the 
                        Kentucky
                     regiments of mounted riflemen, who enlisted under General Harrison for the Northwest
                    campaign. He was in the battle of the Thames, on the 5th of October, 1813, in which the great leader
                    Tecumseh was slain. Jones was one of the first settlers of German township and for one term served
                    as probate judge of 
                        Bartholomew county
                    . He lies at Flatrock graveyard six miles north of 
                        Columbus
                    .
            The second soldier was Thomas Hart, the son of Joseph Wart, the soldier of the Revolution, now buried
                    at 
                        Garland Brook
                    . Thomas Hart was in the 
                        United States
                     regulars, having enlisted in 
                        East Tennessee
                    . He was in the siege of Fort Meigs, at the mouth of the Maumee rapids, near 
                        Lake
                     Erie, where he received a wound in his foot from an Indian bullet shot from a tree
                    outside the stockade. After the fort had been relieved, Hart was taken to 
                        Detroit
                    , and later to Water-town, 
                        New York
                    , where he was discharged, when the wounded soldier walked to his home, back in 
                        East Tennessee
                    . July 3 Thomas Hart settled in 
                        Clay
                     township and he now lies in Sand Hill graveyard, three miles east
                    of 
                        Columbus
                    . During the 1812 war in our neighborhood there were no attacks by the Indians on any of
                    the numerous block houses which had been erected for the protection of the settlers, but usually the
                    marauders would attack individuals, and sometimes families.
            On the afternoon of September 13, 1812, two men, Jeremiah Payne and Coffman, were out hunting bee
                    trees about  two miles north of the Pigeon Roost settlement in 
                        Clark
                    , now 
                        Scott county
                    , some 40 miles south of 
                        Columbus
                    .
            They were surprised by a band of a dozen Shawaneese warriors, both of them were killed and scalped.
                    The Indians then advanced upon the settlement, about sunset, and within the space of an hour, killed
                    one man, five women and sixteen children, and burned their dwellings.
            Some of the 
                        Clark county
                     militia immediately gathered at the scene of the massacre, when they found the dead in
                    the smoking ruins. All the dead were gathered together and buried in a single grave. About 150
                    mounted riflemen, under command of Major John McCoy, the next day, followed the trail, northward, of
                    the retreating savages for 20 miles to the Muscatituck where were found some of the straggling
                    Indians. We are told by the late Mr. Nugent of Jonesville, then a resident of 
                        Clark county
                     in the neighborhood of the massacre, that when the stragglers were discovered, the
                    officer in command ordered the bugle to be sounded, whereupon the Shawaneese took warning and
                    escaped through the river bottoms in the thick woods and underbrush, and eluded the pursuit of the
                    scouts. Mr. Nugent further related that Colonel Bartholomew was away from home at that time, much to
                    the regret of the militia, else the pursuit of the marauders might have had a different ending.
            The settlers of the whole surrounding neighborhood of the Pigeon Roost vicinity sought protection,
                    for some time, at the nearest blockhouse, or fort as they were locally called, and young Catherine
                    McAllister, who in time became the grandmother of our fellow-citizen, James L. Kyte, together with
                    her father and mother, sought and took refuge in Fort Beck, over in 
                        Washington County
                    , just west of the Pigeon Roost settlement.
            Down southeast from 
                        Columbus
                    , some thirty odd miles, in 
                        Jefferson county
                    , the marauding Indians gave the settlers a scare, and I find in the Territorial Laws of 1814, under date of December 16, 1813, a memorial to the Legislature,
                    then in session. It reads: 
                        An Act for the relief of David Hillis, late Lieutenant and Colonel of the 6th Regiment. Whereas, David Hillis hath represented to this  legislature, that in the spring of 1812 an almost universal
                            alarm existed within the county of 
                                Jefferson
                            , and that many were moving away, believing that in a fern days the Indians
                            would make a fatal blow on the frontiers of said county; that he thought it prudent to call
                            out about forty of the militia who continued in service seventeen days, and that he was
                            obliged to contract for provision to supply those men, for which he prays relief.
                    
            
            The General Assembly made an appropriation to Lt. Col. Hillis to be paid out of the first monies
                    received by said regiment, and Hillis instructed to send his muster roll to the Secretary of War.
            Our neighbors who had made settlement down in Vallonia were in dread, even three months before the
                    Pigeon Roost affair, and I find in one of John Tipton's journals an account of a trip to
                    the Vallonia settlement in the summer of 1812, with men to guard the settlers while harvesting a
                    crop of flax.
            As it is of interest, I shall quote from his journal: 
                        On the 30th of June, 1812, Capt. Zenor and myself Received Letters from a number of citizens
                            on the driftwood fork of White river Requesting us to come out and
                            fetch a company to gueard them against the Indians and pertake of a dinner on the fourth day
                            of July. On the second day the Capt. with 9 men myself and some others ware to follow on the
                            fifth. I accordingly started on the fifth in company with one of my rangers.
                    
            
            
               
                        Tipton
                     then records an account of the protection given the Vallonia settlement while engaged
                    in harvesting their flax.
            However there were no savages that appeared, and he records the leaving the settlement and of their
                    return home southward in 
                        Harrison county
                    , as follows: 
                        Monday the 20th (July, 1812). The morning cloudy we maid Preparation to start home. Capt.
                            Zenor come on with his men from Fort Recovery and told us they had to swim a creek on the
                            way. At 7 we set out for home come to Vallonia, thence to Fort Pleasant, drank some whisky
                            then mooved on crosst muscakituck—then on two miles got some whisky thence on
                            four miles—got half bushel of rotten corn for 25 cents men all merry shooting and
                            hallowing one of our men lost a blanket—women went to find it three on the men come up—eould not find blanket we stopt and got some whisky
                            then passt Price's Lick—thence to Hog-gatt's
                            mill—staid all night Friday 21st (July, 1812). The morning cloudy—we
                            mooved at daylight on to Will Coxes—got to shooting one of our horses run off and three the rider and hurt him very much—  stopt when one of our men took dinner—mooved on
                            Shieldes. One of our men and myself left the Company and came home at dark after being out
                            20 days and doing no good after Indians.
                    
            
            In the spring of 1813 the Indians renewed their attacks en our neighbors in 
                        Jackson county
                     and a number of killings are reported by small scouting parties that often penetrated
                    the settlements, stole horses and escaped the hot pursuit of the militia.
            On March 18 the Indians killed one man and wounded three, near Vallonia, 30 miles down Driftwood, and
                    a month later, on April 16, more men were killed eight miles south of that town. Under date of April
                    24, 1813, 
                        Tipton
                    , who had been commissioned as major, and placed in command of the militia stationed on
                    the frontier of 
                        Harrison
                     and 
                        Clark counties
                    , reports from Vallonia to acting Governor John Gibson of his doing for the relief of
                    the 
                        Jackson county
                     settlers. He reported: 
                        I took 29 men up Driftwood river 25 miles. I met a party of Indians on
                            an island in the river—a smart skirmish took plsce—I defeated
                            them—killed one dead on the ground, and saw some sink in the river; and I believe
                            that all that made their escape by swimming the river, if done so, lost their guns.
                    
            
            Tipton's troops followed the Indians westward into the hilly country of Saltcreek, over in 
                        Brown
                    , but they escaped to the north on an old trail leading towards the 
                        Delaware
                     towns now north of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            This skirmish is now locally known as the "Battle of Tip-ton Island," and it
                    occurred some fifteen miles down Driftwood, below 
                        Columbus
                    . The late Dr. John Tipton Shields, of Seymour, a kinsman of his namesake, in 1894,
                    related to me an incident which occurred in connection with this skirmish.
            
               
                        Tipton
                     had struck the trail of the Indians in Rapp's Bottoms, some two miles above,
                    northeast of Seymour, when he gave the command for complete silence in the ranks. As they were
                    sleuthing on the trial, one of the biggest men in the command was heard talking. 
                        Tipton
                     reprimanded the fellow and again commanded silence. Shortly after the big strapping
                    fellow was heard talking again. 
                        Tipton
                     halted the men, took the gun from the militiaman, tied him to a tree, in the tall  horseweeds, where he was compelled to stay two hours in deadly
                    fright, while the battle lasted, when men were sent to cut his thongs, which released him.
            That the Indians were keeping the rangers and militia busy can be evidenced by a report made by
                    Colonel Bartholomew to Governor Posey under date of June 21, 1813, from Vallonia, of an expedition
                    against the hostile Delawares on the west fork of White river.
            His force consisted of 137 men, which left Vallonia on June 11, 1813, with Lt. Col. Tipton and Major
                    David Owen as aids and parts of three companies of rangers commanded by Captain Williamson Dunn,
                    James Bigger and C. Peyton, and a small detachment of militia under Major Depauw of 
                        Harrison county
                    . This force marched northeasterly east of Driftwood, and the route through 
                        Bartholomew
                     was still marked and identified six years after when the first settlements were made in
                    the county. South of the 
                        Madison
                     state road, in time, from 
                        Columbus
                    , the route of the 
                        Bartholomew
                     Trail became what is known as the Brownstown Road.
            This trail continues northward, immediately west of Garland Erook Cemetery, crossing Haw creek at the
                    southeast corner of the Old Henry Dunn farm, and Flatrock west of 
                        St. Louis
                     Crossing. This expedition was a short one, for a week later, on June 21st, Colonel
                    Bartholomew reports that his forces had returned to Vallonia.
            The route on their return was along the old Indian trail on the west side of Driftwood, west of
                    Taylorsville and the old Lowel Mills, and later in 1823 was established and surveyed by John Tipton,
                    as the Mauk's Ferry State road.
            
               
                        Tipton
                    , in one of his journals, mentions the return of the troopers, as follows: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Saturday, May 20—1813
                        At 15 past 12 came to the upper Rapids of Driftwood—at this plaice where
                                    we made bark cannoes to carry a wounded man down to Vallonia on the 20th of June,
                                    1813.
                     
                  
               
                
            The upper rapids of Driftwood, four miles northwest of 
                        Columbus
                    , is where Ephraim Arnold built one of the earliest mills of the county, afterwards
                    owned by Gaff Gent & Thomas, but now abandoned as a millsite.
            
            Eleven days after the return to Vallonia of the rangers and militia under Colonel
                    Bartholomew—on July 1, 1813, Col. William Russell of the 7th 
                        United States
                     regiment having organized a force of 573 effective men, marched from Vallonia upon the 
                        Delaware
                     towns on the west fork of White river, northeast of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The line of march of this large force was through 
                        Bartholomew county
                    , and was, about two miles west of 
                        Columbus
                     on the old Indian trail, which, later in 1823, was made the Mauk's Ferry State
                    road.
            Colonel Russell's march from the 
                        Delaware
                     towns was made to the mouth of the Mississinewa, some three miles up the
                        Wabash river north of Peru where the Indian encampments were destroyed. The
                    march was then down the Wabash river to Eel River
                    town—now 
                        Logansport
                    , thence by Winne-mac town to 
                        Fort Harrison
                    , above 
                        Terre Haute
                    .
            The army was composed of five divisions, the center division being under the command of Major Zachary
                    Taylor, who 35 years later was elected President of the 
                        United States
                    .
            Colonel Russell's report of the expedition mentions the route taken to have been upward of
                    500 miles (quoting): 
                        Colonel Bartholomew acted as my aid-de-camp. This veteran has been so well tried in this kind
                            of warfare that any encomiums from me would be useless.
                    
            
            A personal mention, here, I judge, will not be out of place.
            In the fall of 1894 my brother, William D. Pence, and I were visiting our brother, the Rev. Edward H.
                    Pence, who was then ministering to the First Presbyterian church at 
                  Janesville, Wisconsin
               . While there I proposed a visit to James Bartholomew, a son of
                    Colonel Bartholomew, who lived on his large farm, some two miles out from Lodi, 30 miles west of
                    Janesville.
            The proposition was carried out, and two of the most interesting hours of my life were spent on that
                    October day, listening to that aged, and totally blind man, the son of the hero for whom our county
                    was given its name. As was his right, he was proud of his father and told us many things which
                    occurred in the active career of this Indiana pioneer history maker. One of them was in relation to
                    the Russell expedition, and in this wise: 
                    
                        When Colonel Russell made the call for the rangers, one of the sons of Colonel Bartholomew
                            was so very sick that he was unable to respond. The father at once volunteered as substitute
                            and accompanied the 
                                Clark county
                             troopers to Vallonia in the ranks, as a private. Colonel Russell promptly
                            accepted his services, but selected him as his aid-de-camp.
                        While on the march, and while encamped for the night, Russell was suddenly taken violently
                            sick. He called for Colonel Bartholomew and told him, "Colonel, I am very sick, and
                            should anything happen to me, I want you to take charge of this expedition.
                    
            
            Another personal mention: One of my numerous queries was that one relative to what the father thought
                    of the way that the whites had obtained possession of the lands of the Indians. He answered me:
                        
                        Father expressed himself a number of times on that subject, that the white men in many
                            instances and treaties had imposed upon the Indian—and suddenly making a
                            vigourous gesture with his right arm and with much energy said—but he killed as
                            many of them as the next man.
                    
            
            There were no more Indian outbreaks in our neighborhood in or after the year 1813. Colonel
                    Russell's expedition taught the redman in Indiana that his style of didos would not be
                    stood for.
            In a former treatise I told you that the earliest settlements were made in 
                        Bartholomew county
                     by squatters in the spring of 1819—nearly two years before the formation and
                    organization of the county.
            One of the pioneers of the county was John Hamner, whose statement I have, made on May 15, 1869. He
                    was a resident of Sand Creek township, was 82 years of age, having been born in 
                  Mercer county, Kentucky
               , in 1787.
            He moved to the county and settled here in the spring of 1819, first in the Hawpatch, and then moved
                    and located permanently near the forks of Sandcreek. At that time there was quite a village of forty
                    Pottowattomies right in the forks of Sandcreek. The Indians went, generally, by the name of
                    "John," he said. There was another settlement of Indians between the bayou and
                    Driftwood, and numerous wigwams on each side of Driftwood and up Blue river, at
                    that time. He says that the route traveled by Col. Joseph Bartholomew and John Tipton rangers, the
                    11th and 12th of June, 1813, against  the 
                        Delaware
                     Indians, crossed Clifty about where the Browns-town road now crosses it, and crossed
                    Hawcreek about three miles north of 
                        Columbus
                    , near the Elias Cox residence. The route crossed Flatrock where James Gooding, Daniel
                    Aiken and — Smock afterwards settled, and that he lived there in 1819 when the road was
                    very plain and the facts fresh.
            Samuel Daugherty, who settled near Walesboro, another pioneer, tells us that in 1820 that there were
                    a number of Pottowattomies here. He was sure that they did not belong to the Delawares as it made
                    them angry when David Stipp, who visited their camps to buy their furs, would tease them by calling
                    them "Delawares." He said further, that as late as 1823 there were Indians camped
                    up in the Hawpatch—and along Flatrock near the mouth of Lewis Creek—and
                    wigwams were still standing on Possum Creek on the road from 
                        Columbus
                     to Walesboro. The last authentic local mention was the visit in 1830 of seven Indians
                    with a number of boys at 
                        Columbus
                    .
            This was a straggling band and gave an exhibition in the court house yard of their skill with their
                    bow and arrow, by shooting out of a split stick the fip-penny-bit, which was contributed by the
                    onlookers.
            Thus it was, my friends, that the 19th white star was carried for the blue field of the Flag.
            It was at 
                  Vincennes, Tippecanoe, Fort Harrison
               , the
                    Mississinewa, Pigeon Roost and Vallonia that the red pigment was furnished by the early pioneer of
                    Indiana.
         
         
         
            Pierre Moran, or Chief Parish of the Pottawattomie Indians
            JOHN WESLEY WHICKER, Attica
            About 1750, there were quite a number of Frenchmen, perhaps most of them French-Canadian, buying furs
                    at Post Ouiatanon. Esarey says of Ouiatanon, Volume 1, page 17: 
                        In an official report on the Indians of the 
                                Lake
                             Erie country, dated 1718, the agent said five villages of the Ouiatanons or
                            Weas dwelt on the 
                                Wabash
                            . In language, customs, and dress they resembled the Miamis. They had a
                            "fort" situated on a high hill from which one could see countless buffalos
                            grazing on the prairie. These Indians had earned an enviable reputation among the traders
                            for their cleanliness. They allowed no dirt or filth to remain on the floor of their
                            "fort" which they kept sanded like the "Tuilleries."
                            They had, at that time, over two leagues of cleared land where they raised corn, pumpkins
                            and melons. The men, numbered one thousand or twelve hundred, wore very little clothing, and
                            played and danced incessantly.
                    
            
            Living about Ouiatanon, on the north side of the Wabash river, were many
                    Pottawattomie Indians; and south of the Pottowattomies, on the same side of the river, were many
                    Kickapoos. The young Frenchmen, that came into the Ouiatanon country to trap, catch fur-bearing
                    animals, and trade with the Indians, quite often married into the Indian tribes.
            William Burnett, one of these Frenchmen, married Kaukeema, the daughter of Aniquiba, and the sister
                    of Topenebee. Her father, Aniquiba, was the head of both the state and religion of the
                    Pottawattomie, and at his death, his oldest son, Topenebee, inherited the same position among the
                    Pottawattomie. The elder Cicot married the daughter of a Pottawattomie Chief, who lived most of the
                    time with his tribe near the Big Springs at Independence, 
                        Warren county
                    , Indiana, and about the same time, Constant Moran married a Kickapoo squaw, and lived
                    along Pine and Kickapoo creeks, just about straight across the river from Attica. Here, he raised a
                    family, one of which was Pierre Moran, or Chief Parish, the subject  of this sketch, who was born sometime during the War of the American
                    Revolution, in 
                        Warren county
                    , Indiana.
            Soon after he was grown, he became a chief in the Kickapoo tribe of Indians, but for some cause, a
                    few years later, he was banished from the tribe, and married a Pottawattomie squaw, who was living,
                    at that time, near Black Rock in 
                        Warren county
                    . Some time after his marriage to this Pottawattomie squaw, he was exalted to the
                    position of chief among the Pottawattomie, and took up his residence on Flint creek, not far from
                    West Point, in 
                        Tippecanoe county
                    . About this time his father and mother both died and their younger children made their
                    home with Chief Parish.
            On page 186, Volume 7, 
                  
                            United States
                         Statutes At Large, Indian Treatise, says: 
                        There shall be granted to Perig, a Pottawattomie Chief, one section of land on
                                Flint River, where he now lives.
                    
            
            This Flint river was Flint creek in 
                        Tippecanoe county
                    . At the same time it also says: 
                        There shall also be granted to Mary Chatalie, daughter of Nebosh, a Pottawattomie Chief, one
                            section of land to be located below the mouth of Pine, River.
                    
            
            This section of land, granted to Mary Chatalie, was located in 
                        Warren county
                    , just across the river from Attica, and Mary Chatalie is buried in the old graveyard at
                    Attica.
            Zachariah Cicot married the sister of Chief Parish or Pierre Moran, her Indian name was Pe-say-quot.
                    On page 219, Volume 7, 
                  
                            United States
                         Statutes At Large, says: 
                        The section of land granted by the Treaty of St. Mary's in 1818 to Peerish, or
                            Perig, shall be granted to Jean B. Cicot, son of Pe-say-quot, sister of the said Peerish, it
                            being so intended at the execution of the said treaty.
                    
            
            And on the same page, says: 
                        To Pierre Moran or Peerish, a Pottawattomie Chief, one section of land and to his children
                            two sections of land at the mouth of the Elkhart River.
                    
            
            He first signed the Treaty of Peace as a Pottawattomie chief, September 29, 1817, which was made and
                    concluded at  the foot of the rapids of the 
                        Miami
                    , at 
                        Lake
                     Erie. He signed here, Perish. He fought in the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     with the Prophet, as a chief in the Kickapoo tribe. Soon after the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , he was banished from the Kickapoo tribe and about 1813, married a Pottawattomie squaw,
                    said to have been the daughter of a Pottawattomie chief.
            He signed the treaty of St. Mary's, October 2, 1818, here his name is Peaneesh, and in this
                    treaty, it is said: 
                        There shall be granted to Perig, a Pottawattomie Chief, one section of land on the
                                Flint River, where he now lives.
                    
            
            He signed the treaty made and concluded at 
                        Chicago
                    , state of 
                        Illinois
                    , August 29, 1821, here he signs as Peannish, and it was at this treaty that the three
                    sections of land at the mouth of the Elkhart river were granted to him and his
                    children and it was at this treaty that he granted to Jean B. Cicot, the son of his sister,
                    Pe-say-quot, the section of land which was granted to him at St. Mary's in 1818, it having
                    been so intended at the execution of the treaty. After this section of land was granted to Jean B.
                    Cicot, Jean B. Cicot sold it to his father, Zachariah Cicot, and the town of Independence, 
                        Warren county
                    , Indiana, is now situated on this Indian grant.
            He signed three of the Indian treaties as a Pottawattomie chief.
            H. S. K. Bartholomew, in his article on "Early Elkhart History," in the Indiana Magazine of History, March, 1926, on page 61, says: 
                        In discussing the two locations for the county seat, the other site was on an Indian
                            reservation, which belonged to a Frenchman, Pierre Moran, who had married an Indian squaw.
                            Moran had sold the site to a man named Godfrey, but had not given a good title to it, and
                            the matter was then in litigation.
                    
            
            When Chief Parish sold this land, he and his tribe came back to Independence, 
                        Warren county
                    , Indiana, where they lived, for a while with his brother-in-law, Zachariah Cicot.
            About 1826, he took up his permanent home in a grove containing about two sections of land in 
                        Benton county
                    , Indiana, still known as Parish Grove. This location seemed to be more pleasing to this
                    roving Indian chief, and his tribe, than any  that they had
                    previously had, and here in the Parish Grove he and his tribe were living when 
                        Benton county
                     was surveyed and opened to settlers for entry.
            On April 18, 1926, Jesse S. Eirch, of 
                        Oxford
                    , Indiana, wrote me a letter in regard to Chief Parish, in which he says: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        I have examined my manuscript and find that Parish's mother was a Kickapoo
                                    and his father a French trader. That being the case how should he be recognized as a
                                    Pottawattomie chief?
                        According to Jacob P. Dunn, Parish was known as Parish Constant; why the latter name
                                    I do not know unless it was the name of his father. The Indians called Parish,
                                    "Patash," meaning that he stuttered and in his speech was like a
                                    wagon stuck in the mud. They pronounced it "Pa-ta-sha."
                        It seems possible that the name Peerech could easily be corrupted or anglicized into
                                    Parish, but I am of the opinion that they were different red skins.
                        The story of Parish climbing a tree in the forks of which he had built a platform on
                                    which to sleep and escape mosquitoes is generally believed and the glamour about it
                                    keeps it alive.
                        I have it that Parish lived in the woods of 
                                        Fountain
                                     and 
                                        Warren
                                     part of the time and in the grove that bears his name part of the time.
                                    Parish took a dislike to James McCord, who had settled in 
                                        Warren
                                     in the early ‘20's, and in going to and fro
                                    threatened the women and children. McCord asked one of the Indians what he could do
                                    to secure Parish's friendship. The Indians told him to give Parish a plug
                                    of tobacco and tell him he wished a pact of friendship. McCord did so. Parish called
                                    for a cup of whiskey, took the liquid in his mouth and spat it back into the cup; he
                                    then handed to another Indian who did likewise. This was done by all the Indians
                                    present. Parish then handed the cup to McCord and told him to drink it, which he
                                    did, although he said afterward it was the bitterest dose he ever swallowed. To this
                                    ceremony the Indians meant that as he "drank of their breath" they
                                    were brothers.
                        Parish was a "bad" Indian and got drunk on every possible occasion.
                                    McCord was authority for the statement that a few days after the cup incident Parish
                                    got drunk and fell off his pony and broke his neck.
                        I am prone to the latter account of the ending of Parish, although as I said in the
                                    start, the platform story will survive.
                        I cannot reconcile my belief that Peeresh and Parish were the same Indian. It will
                                    take some digging to get at the facts and it will fall upon you, Elmore Barce and
                                    myself to do the digging. I am willing to do my share, but am at a loss to know
                                    where to sink my spade elsewhere than where I have.
                        
                                    Yours respectfully,
                                    JESSE L. BIRCH (Signed)
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            Elmore Barce has sent me two letters, both prior to 1846, addressed to Parish's Grove,
                    Indiana. One of them is addressed to I. H. and V. H. Robertson, Parish's Grove, 
                        Benton county
                    , Indiana.
            It is evident that Peresh, Perig and Parish are one and the same person. He signed the treaty of 1817
                    as Peresh, he signed the treaty of 1818 as Peaneesh, but his name in the body of the treaty is
                    signed Perig, and his name is written in the treaty at 
                        Chicago
                     in 1821 as Peannish.
            In the treaty of 1818, it is said: 
                        there shall be granted Perig, a Pottawattomie chief, one section of land on the
                                Flint River where he now lives.
                    
            
            October 2, 1818, he was living on the Flint river or Flint creek in 
                        Tippecanoe county
                    .
            Previous to this time he had lived in 
                        Warren county
                     and 
                        Fountain county
                    . He moved from 
                        Tippecanoe county
                     to his grant at the mouth of the Elkhart river in 
                        Elkhart county
                    , from there back to Independence, in 
                        Warren county
                    , and from there to Parish's Grove in 
                        Benton county
                    .
            The reason that the name was changed so often was that the scribe wrote the interpretation from the
                    interpreter according to the phonetic sound, and no two interpreters sounded the name the same.
            It is said that a large basswood or Linden tree, with two forks at the top, about equal in size, had
                    been blown over; and the two forks of this tree straddled the largest walnut tree in the grove. On
                    the side where the Linden tree fell there were no limbs, on the walnut tree, but on the opposite
                    side was the first limb, and it was a very easy matter for the Indians to walk up the body of the
                    leaning linden tree and then climb the walnut. In the top of this walnut tree, which was the largest
                    tree in the Parish Grove, Chief Parish lived most of his time, and slept there always. That soon
                    after the McCord incident, mentioned by Birch, Parish got drunk and fell from the tree. It is agreed
                    by all the early settlers that Parish was addicted to drink and that he met an accident, while
                    drunk, in which he was killed.
            
            At the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , he took an active hand with the Indians, while Zachariah Cicot took an active hand
                    with William Henry Harrison. The marriage of Cicot and the sister of Parish, Pe-say-quot, was
                    performed first as an Indian marriage and probably all their children were born before they were
                    re-married by the Christian marriage ceremony, on October 2, 1818. Here she married under the name
                    of Elizabeth Moran, and it is said that Pierre Moran and his wife were witnesses to this ceremony.
                    Zachariah Cicot and Pierre Moran were both adherents of the Catholic faith, and this marriage of
                    Zachariah Cicot and Elizabeth Moran was a Catholic ceremony.
            There was a marked and much traveled trail from the Parish Grove in 
                        Benton county
                    , where Chief Parish lived, to the trading post of his brother-in-law, Zachariah Cicot,
                    at Independence, 
                        Warren county
                    , Indiana; and with the exception of what time Parish lived on his reservation at the
                    mouth of the Elkhart river, he and his sister, the wife of Zachariah Cicot,
                    always lived near each other and the friendship of this brother and sister, was as binding as that
                    of any brother and sister of the white race.
            He secured the section of land by treaty, for Jean B. Cicot, his sister's son, and he gave
                    his consent that his nephew should convey to Zachariah Cicot, his father, with the understanding
                    that it was to be laid about the Big Springs at the trading post of Cicot, near the Pottawattomie
                    ford across the river, where it would become the permanent home of Pe-say-quot.
            After the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and the War of 1812, he and his brother-in-law, Zachariah Cicot, remained on intimate
                    and friendly terms until their death, and Parish is the only Indian who was a chief in this
                    locality, whose life and deeds we are, at this time, able to trace from his birth to his death.
            It is certain that his mother was a Kickapoo; and that Pe-say-quot, the wife of Zachariah Cicot, was
                    his sister; that Zachariah Cicot's mother was a Pottawattomie; that the Kick-apoos, for
                    some cause, banished Parish from their tribe; that the Pottowattomies adopted both Parish and his
                    sister, Pe-say-quot into their tribe; and that afterwards the Pottawattomies  exalted Parish to the honorable position of chief in the tribe.
            In 1823, when Price L. Kellog was designated to survey and locate the six sections of land, as the
                    outline plat of Burnett's Reservation, at the mouth of Flint river,
                    Parish was then living on his reservation at the mouth of the Elkhart river.
                    Upon the request of Zachariah Cicot and the Burnetts, Parish met Price L. Kellog at Cicot's
                    trading post, and together Parish, Cicot and Kellog, rowed up the Wabash river
                    in a canoe to the Flint Bar, here they met Peter Weaver, the first white settler in 
                        Tippecanoe county
                    , and his son, Patrick Henry Weaver. They asked Parish where this reservation should be
                    laid out. He took Kellog to a spring of clear water that flowed out from between the shale rock on
                    the east side of the river, showed him the spring and then said "Ugh", pointed up
                    the river and then down the river. This spring still flows from between the shale rock on the banks
                    of the Wabash river near Flint Bar. Price Kellog went down the river about one
                    mile, making the spring about the center of the point where the reservation would front along the 
                        Wabash
                    , then he measured up the river two miles; crossing Flint river,
                    then came back a mile down the river from the spring and ran off the reservation in the direction
                    Parish pointed. Kellog didn't see the Flint river, until he crossed it
                    about (1/4) a quarter of a mile up the 
                        Wabash
                     from the spring, as he ran the east line of the reservation near Flint
                    river the Flint river runs clear through the east portions of the
                    Burnett reservation. The home of Parish, until he left 
                        Tippecanoe county
                     for his reservation at the mouth of the Elkhart river, was
                    adjoining the Burnett Reservation.
            Parish was born in 
                        Warren county
                    , Indiana, and while like all the other Indians, he was a nomad, moving from place to
                    place, he lived all his life in Indiana and died and is buried in 
                        Renton county
                    , Indiana.
            When John Robertson and his two sturdy sons, Henry and Samuel, left 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1834, and crossed the Ohio river at the mouth of the
                        Kentucky river, and followed the trail that General Charles Scott and his
                    army had made in 1791, as far as 
                        Crawfordsville
                     and followed the Kiclrapoo trail from there, 
                    crossing the ford of the Kickapoo and continuing to follow the Kickapoo trail until they arrived at
                    Parish's Grove in 
                        Benton county
                    , where they stopped to make their permanent home. These were the first settlers in 
                        Benton county
                    , and here in this grove, standing out in the prairie, Parish had, in his mature years,
                    chosen his permanent home.
            In the treaty of 1818, the Parish Grove was just about one mile south of the boundary line and north
                    of this boundary line was Indian territory, until the treaty of peace on the Tippecanoe
                        river in 1832, but in 1834, but little of this land had been entered from the
                    government by actual settlers, it was still the hunting ground of the Pottawattomie.
            In an address delivered by Elmore Rarce, of Fowler to the 
                  Benton, Fountain
                and 
                        Warren
                     Historical Societies, in Parish Grove, on August 24, 1924, (see Indiana
                        Magazine of History, March, 1926, page 23) Barce described the grove and locality thus:
                        
                        In 1834, the great prairies stretching onward to the next slope were entirely devoid of trees
                            and houses, except where the course of some small stream was marked by a narrow strip of
                            foliage on either side. If you could have ridden the paths here with Henry and Samuel
                            Robertson in the month of June, 1834, you would have seen from right to left, at your very
                            feet and leagues beyond, a rolling sea of grass filled with flowers and blossoms. To relieve
                            the eye, and add a pleasing variation to these grassy stretches, little groves nestled here
                            and there on the bosom of the prairie, that on a bright summer morning, resembled an island
                            of blue in a sea of green. To enter these groves, filled with the songs of the thrush and
                            gay with the blossoms of the crab-apple and the wild plum, to swing on the vine that
                            entwined its ends about the tallest limbs, to listen to the chatter of numberless birds and
                            the caw of the great black crows that nested and raised their young there, to climb into the
                            tallest hickory or walnut and catch glimpses of the prairie through the vistas of the woods,
                            was to realize the pure joy of living. An old man who saw these green savannas in 1852, once
                            told me: "It's almost the same today as when it first came from the hands
                            of God." To us, it is a garden beautiful, basking in the sunlight of abundance and
                            plenty, the glorious ripening and harvest of years of peace.
                    
            
         
         
         
            DR. RYLAND BROWN, A CORRECTION
            The following letter concerning the above article is published as written: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    April 19, 1927.
                                
                        My dear Mr. Esarey:
                        On page 93 of the March number of Indiana Magazine of History I
                                    note the article on Dr. Ryland T. Brown by his granddaughter Caroline Brown (Krout)
                                    of 
                                        Crawfordsville
                                    , Ind.
                        There is a misstatement in this article that I cannot allow to stand without protest:
                        The mother of this George Brown was a daughter of George Washington
                                    according to a family tradition.
                        This is easily disposed of when one knows that Mary Ball Brown was born in 1734 and
                                    George Washington in 1732!
                        Washington's birthday is a matter of history. Mary Ball Brown's
                                    record was chiseled upon her tombstone in the old orchard, on the farm in
                                            
                              Clermont County, Ohio
                           , near 
                                        New Richmond
                                    , where she lived from 1788 until her death in 1816. And this
                                    "stone document"—now 111 years old—still
                                    stands, and still bears that record of birth and death.
                        I shall be personally grateful if you will be good enough to see to it that this
                                    correction is made in your next issue?
                        My maternal grandfather, William John Brown, was a grandson of Thomas and Mary Ball
                                    Brown and I am deeply interested in anything concerning them. I had an unusual
                                    opportunity to hear of these people back in my childhood, as our great
                                    grandmother—the widow of George Brown—frequently visited my
                                    grandmother, Mrs. Wm. J. Brown, who was her daughter-in-law, and I lived with my
                                    grandmother. Over and over this old great-grandmother told us the stories of her
                                    early life of which we never tired. She was George Brown's second wife,
                                    married in 1802; brought up his six daughters and her own five children, first in 
                                        Kentucky
                                     and later in 
                              Clermont County,
                                            Ohio
                           , and in 1821 in 
                                        Rush county
                                    , Indiana. She had lived for years near her father and mother-in-law, in
                                            
                              Clermont County, Ohio
                           , and sent back two of her
                                    sons to school there after they moved to 
                                        Rush county
                                    , Indiana. She used these stories of early times trying to give us an
                                    idea of the hardships the people endured in order to make a place for us.
                        Never once did I hear anyone intimate that there was any relationship between the 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                     and 
                                        Virginia
                                     Balls and their descendants (until someone invented a "Ball
                                    Estate."). If there had been a shred of evidence that this was the case I
                                    should have known of it, because through my father's people we come down
                                    from those 
                                        Virginia
                                     Balls, as we come from the 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                     Balls through my mother.
                        I am afraid I have tried your patience with this lengthy letter, but I have tried to
                                    show you why I am right, and how it is that I know.
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    ELIZA G. BROWNING
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
      
      
         
      
   
