
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 27, Issue 4, pages 279-356. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:27+issue:4+year:1931&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Henry Smith Lane1
            
            BY JAMES A. WOODBURN
            
            Henry Smith Lane was born in 
                  Montgomery County, Kentucky
               , February 24, 1811. He was just two
                    years younger than Lincoln, a native of the same state. Lane and Lincoln were much alike. They were
                    typical pioneer western citizens, and they were in close agreement in their political opinions.
            Lane received an academic education under private tutors. He studied law before leaving 
                        Kentucky
                    , and, in 1832, when just twenty-one, he removed to 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Indiana. There he entered upon the practice of law. He soon became interested in
                    politics, a common habit among Hoosiers, and, as B 
                        Kentucky
                     follower of Henry Clay, be became identified with the new Whig party.
            In 1837 Lane was elected to the Indiana senate. In 1840 he was elected to the House of
                    Representatives at 
                        Washington
                    , to fill a vacancy caused by the resignation of Tilghman A. Howard, of 
                        Rockville
                    , who was the Democratic candidate for Governor. Lane was re-elected to the following
                    Congress, and thus he served in the House from 1840 to 1843.
            At the outbreak of the Mexican War, Lane raised a regiment of Indiana Volunteers for the service. Of
                    this regiment he was first a Major and later its Lieutenant Colonel. Unlike many of his fellow
                    Whigs, he ardently supported this war and rendered creditable service in its conduct.
            After the war, upon his return to Indiana, Lane abandoned the Law as a profession and became a banker
                    in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . In 1849 he was again a candidate for Congress but was defeated 
                  
                     1This paper was read at the Lane House in 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana. on October 24, 1981, at a joint meeting of tho Indiana Historical
                            Society and the Indiana Pioneer Society.
               
                     by Joseph E. McDonald, who afterwards spoke of him as
                    "always the soul of honor and generous toward his opponents."
            In the break-up of the northern Whig party from 1854 to 1856, Lane became one of the founders of the
                    Republican party in Indiana, and it is safe to say that he was as influential as any man in the
                    state in determining the cast and character of the new party and in leading it to victory. In this
                    formative period, the Replblican party in Indiana was quite heterogeneous, being made up of varied
                    elements. There were old anti-slavery Whigs in the new party—Lane was one; there were old
                    Free Soilers, more radical anti-slavery men—Julian was one; there were Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Democrats, ready to leave their party to resist slavery extension—Morton was
                    one; there were "
                        Maine
                     Law" advocates, temperance men, bent on outlawing the liquor traffic, and they
                    were strong in voting power—Test of 
                        Richmond
                     and Wright of 
                        Logansport
                    , were two of them; and there were the Americans, or
                    "Knownothings"—"Old Dick" Thompson, of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , was one, a late comer into the new party. These "Knownothings" very
                    easily held the, balance of power between the two main parties, as did also the temperance men.
            A fusion of these elements under the name of the "People's Party", carried
                    the state in 1854. Could enough of them be held together under the dominant issue of no further
                    extension of slavery to enable the new Republican party to carry the state in 1856? The result of
                    the latter election showed that such unity could not be achieved in so short a time, but the outcome
                    of the contest of 1856 was a more homogeneous party with a future before it. Lane's
                    leadership in the movement was recognized.
            These varying elements of opposition to the Democratic administration held a mass convention in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on May 1, 1856, fully 30, 000 strong. It was an outpouring of self-appointed delegates.
                    They met on the State-House grounds—no hall in town could hold the throng. Henry S. Lane
                    was chairman of this vast concourse of his fellow citizens and fellow partisans. He made a fervent
                    speech, urging three issues underlying what he called the coming revolution: 
                    
                  No further extension of slavery.
                  Prohibition of the liquor traffic.
                  Full citizenship requisite for voting—not merely a declaration of
                        intention.
                The mass convention declared for this program. Here were offers to various groups and
                    constituencies, but it was hardly a platform on which a majority of our voters could be united. The
                    discordant fusion elements of 1854 had not yet fully coalesced by 1856. Oliver P. Morton, former
                    Democrat of Center-ville, was nominated for Governor by that mass convention, and, although
                    defeated, the race he made showed that the new party was headed for unity and victory.
            On June 17, 1856, the anniversary of the battle of Bunker Hill, the new
                    Republican party met in its first national nominating convention. Lane was made permanent chairman
                    of that historic body. This was a recognition of his standing and prominence, and an honor
                    sufficient of itself to give him a permanent name in American history. The 
                        New York
                    
                    Evening Post reports that when the committee conducted Lane to the chair
                    "three rousing cheers were given for the Hoosier State." After Lane's
                    election as permanent chairman the convention gave itself up to "exuberant speech
                    making". Lane's qualities of oratory were well adapted to that convention of
                    earnest and enthusiastic men. Addressing the delegates as "Friends of Freedom",
                    the Chairman said: 
                        The honor conferred upon me is worthy of any citizen of the Republic and far transcends any
                            poor merits of mine. I thank the convention on behalf of my young Commonwealth.
                        We are assembled almost within the shadow of those venerable trees whose infant boughs were
                            moved and stirred by the swaying shouts of freemen when a great nation was born into the
                            world."
                    
            
            He spoke for the cause of free labor, free thought, Pee press, free speech, free men. He drew a lurid
                    picture of conditions in 
                        Kansas
                    : 
                        When the 
                                Kansas
                            -
                                Nebraska
                             inquity was adopted, my allegiance to 
                                Kentucky
                             politics from that hour slumbered in the grave of Henry Clay. We once had peace
                            on slavery. We acquiesced in the compromises of 1860. By the accursed ambition of Stephen A.
                            Douglas the whole slavery agitation has again been opened. I call upon the people to witness
                            that this agitation has not been brought on the country 
                            by any action of ours. It is forced upon us and we are forced to meet it.
                        We shall follow no sectional banner, but the banner of the nation, with its stars undimmed
                            and with all its bars aflame. We seek to bring back the Government to where our fathers left
                            it. There is no disunion sentiment in our hearts. I love the Union of the Constitution and I
                            would preserve the Union of the Constitution, not by the surrenderi of our rights but by
                            manfully defending them by an efficient execution of the laws and by a proper interpretation
                            of the constitution. Do this and the Union is safe. The cry of disunion comes from 
                                South Carolina
                            , from the dung nullifiers with Gen. Jackson's halters around their
                            necks. They dare to reproach me with the want of fidelity to the Union. Gentlemen, there is
                            no danger of a dissolution of the Union.
                        They tell us we are sectional. Freedom is national, slavery is sectional, and we make no war
                            upon it. If to oppose the extension of slavery is to be an "Abolitionist,"
                            then write "Abolitionist" all over me. Nay, more, as the proudest word of
                            my mother tongue, write "Abolitionist" upon my tomb!
                    Such were his convictions in 1866, and such was the challenge of his leadership flung out at 
                        Philadelphia
                     to his adversaries in Indiana and the nation.
            In 1859 Lane was elected by his party majority in the Legislature to the 
                        United States
                     Senate. But his election was contested, and the Democratic majority in the Senate gave
                    the seat to his political opponent, Jesse D. Bright.
            In 1860 Lane was nominated for Governor by the Republicans. Morton, the standard bearer of
                    '66, was named for Lieut. Governor. Here, heading the ticket, were an old Whig and an old
                    Democrat. There was not a formal bargain, but a mutual understanding, though it was not made public,
                    that, if the Republicans should be successful in the state, Lane would go to the Senate allowing
                    Morton to become Governor. The plan was carried out. Lane was elected Governor, by nearly 10, 000
                    majority, but he served only two or three days. The Republican legislative caucus nominated him for
                    Senator; he was elected, resigned as Governor, Morton became our War Governor, and was able to
                    succeed himself in 1864, not having served a full term before his re-inauguration.
            In that famous campaign of 1860, the Democrats nominated Thomas A. Hendricks for Governor and David
                    Turpie for Lieut. Governor. It is probable that the same kind of an understanding existed on the
                    Democratic side of the political fence, namely, that if the Democrats should be successful  Hendricks would go to the Senate and Turpie become Governor.
                    Lane and Hendricks, Morton and Turpie! It seems to us that there were giants in those days. In
                    addition to this Big Four heading the two tickets, Benjamin Harrison was running against Michael C.
                    Kerr for Reporter of the Supreme Court. "TWO stronger tickets", says Dr. Esarey,
                    "never opposed each other ih an Indiana campaign."2 There was
                    a subsequent President, a later Speaker of the national House, and five future 
                        United States
                     Senators on those tickets of 1860.
            On the hustings, Lane was the equal, if not the superior, of any of them. He hardly had a rival as a
                    popular political campaigner. His speeches were not intended for reading by posterity; they were
                    made for the occasion, full of effective eloquence. He was a fine story teller, but a deeply earnest
                    man, and he could always hold an audience. He illustrated well the maxim that an orator should put
                    fire into his speeches or put his speeches into the fire. Julian said of Lane that he "was
                    full of patriotic ardor, and, like Baker, of 
                        Oregon
                    , had the rare gift of eloquent impromptu speech."
            It was the custom of those days, after the manner of Lincoln and Douglas, for opposing candidates to
                    have joint debates before the people. Lane and Hendricks spoke from the same platform, each
                    presenting his claims and the claims of his party before the voters. Having read the reports of the
                    Lane-Hendricks debates, it seems to the writer of this paper that Lane was the better orator, being
                    more emotional in his appeal; but that Hendricks was the better debater, the more logical in his
                    reasoning and argument.
            Ae we look back upon the history of the years, 1860-1861, we think of slavery as the dominant, if not
                    the only, issue of the day. It was slavery that seemed to be rending the nation in twain. Secession
                    and civil war were impending, but the Lane-Hendricks debates show how conservative these candidates
                    were. Hendricks never mentioned the subject of slavery, and Lane discussed it chiefly to resent the
                    charge of abolitionism made against himself. Lane was not an abolitionist, no more so than was
                    Lincoln. Years earlier, on Sept. 29, 1835, before the Western Literary Society of 
                        Wabash
                     college, he had denounced the Abolitionists as fanatics and deplored their ill-timed
                    efforts to bring about the abolition of slavery. He believed 
                  
                     2 Logan Esarey, History of Indiana, II, 669.
               
                     that any general scheme of emancipation should be accompanied
                    by a plan for African colonization. He had voted in Congress in 1842 for the censure of Giddings in
                    the Creole Case, along with his Indiana colleagues, Wallace, Thompson, and Kennedy. Did this vote
                    come from lack of vision or lack of courage to attack slavery? He denounced Helper's
                    "Impending Crisis," which appeared in 1854, as "incendiary", a
                    volume which John Sherman and other Republican leaders had recommended as a good campaign document.
                    He looked upon John Brown as a deluded enthusiast. He disliked any radical outbreak or utterance. He
                    stood for law, order, precedent, and the old standards of the Constitution.
            Lane claimed only to stand on old ground where former party leaders had stood. His antagonism to
                    slavery was only opposition to slavery extension. "Wherever slavery exists by local
                    law," he said, "there it is sacred and is protected by the constitution of the 
                        United States
                    ." He meant that it was politically sacred, not morally so.
                    Lane, again like Lincoln, hated slavery and hoped, as he said, to live, as he did live, to see the
                    day when all men should be free, South as well as North, and when the "foot of a slave
                    shall never again tread the soil of the Republic." But to bring that about, he looked not
                    to violence but to evolution and orderly procedure.
            Lane held the Democratic party responsible for the new agitation of the slavery question, because of
                    its repeal in 1854 of the 
                        Missouri
                     compromise restriction. He rejected the dogma deduced from the Dred Scott opinion that
                    the constitution carried slavery into the Territories and protected it there; and in this he was
                    merely standing where 
                        Washington
                     and Jefferson, Webster and 
                        Clay
                    , and other leaders of parties had stood in days gone by. Lane stood his ground on the
                    essential point as stoutly as Lincoln did. He would not yield one jot nor one tittle for an
                    extension of slave territory. He was willing to guarantee that Congress should not interfere with
                    slavery in states where it existed; that might even be put into the constitution, if need be, but
                    not one foot more of the national territory should be devoted to slavery.
            At 
                        Evansville
                    , Lane broke off the joint debates with Hendricks and hastened to 
                        Chicago
                     to attend the Republican national convention of 1860, not as a delegate but as one
                    deeply interested in the outcome of that convention. As the party  nominee for Governor in a pivotal state he was anxious that the strongest possible candidate for
                    President should be named by his party. He believed that %ward's nomination would endanger
                    the cause in Indiana. He wanted a safer, more conservative candidate, one who had not made so
                    prominent an anti-slavery record. He wanted Lincoln; and, perhaps, no single man did more than Lane
                    to bring about Lincoln's nomination—for which the country may do well to
                    acknowledge its debt of gratitude. Lane is represented as going from one caucus room to another,
                    after midnight on May 18, "toiling with desperation to bring the Indiana delegation to go
                    as a unit for Lincoln."3 The Indiana delegation did go as a unit for
                    Lincoln. David Davis, Lincoln's manager, may have promised Caleb B. Smith a Cabinet
                    position to bring this about. There is evidence enough to suggest it but not enough to prove it.
                    Curtin the party candidate for Governor in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     (with a similar but more unfortunate commitment to Simon Cameron) brought 
                        Pennsylvania
                     into line with Indiana. Curtin and Lane made it clear that a pronounced enemy of the
                    Knownothings could carry neither 
                        Pennsylvania
                     nor Indiana. As the result of the support of Indiana and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Lincoln was nominated. Indiana and her candidate for Governor had rendered a service
                    to the nation.
            Lane's inaugural address (lately read by the writer), was delivered at 
                        Indianapolis
                     when he took the oath of office as Governor on January 14, 1861. It was at a crisis in
                    the country's history. The nation was facing disunion. 
                        South Carolina
                     had already seceded, and other Southern states were preparing to take the same fatal
                    step. Lane addressed himself more to national than to state issues. He thought the patriotism of the
                    land would be sufficient to save us from civil war and fraternal bloodshed. He denounced the
                    secession movement as "a treasonable conspiracy" originated by pestilent
                    demagogues whose avowed object was the dismemberment of the 
                        United States
                    . He knew of no compromise, no concession which the people of the 
                        United States
                     should make to satisfy 
                        South Carolina
                    . He would have "the right of every State in the Confederacy and of every
                    individual preserved inviolate." He called the Union a "confederacy," as
                    was often done by men of both sections in days prior to the Civil War. He said: 
                  
                     3 Murat Halstead, Caucuses [Conventions] of 1880, 142.
               
                    
                    
                        The novel, alarming and treasonable assumption that any State in the Union has a right to
                            secede at pleasure is a doctrine unknown to the constitution, at war with the principles on
                            which the Government was established, and destructive of those high and sacred objects
                            sought to be accomplished by the confederation. Can the result of an election legally held
                            be a fair cause of dissolution? Such an admission would be a base surrender of the right of
                            the majority to rule. No violation of the South's constitutional rights is
                            contemplated by the new party now coming into power. Such fear is utterly groundless, The
                            South is under a false impression that war is to be made on Southern rights and
                            people."
                    
            
            Governor Lane pledged Indiana's support to the Presidentelect in the full and free exercise
                    of his constitutional powers. In this he was fully justified, and he was supported by the majority
                    of the people of Indiana. He was also approved when he said that he would have Indiana
                    "yield to her sister States, cheerfully and promptly, all their just rights as equals under
                    the constitution,—being governed by a sense of justice and a desire to advance the peace
                    and prosperity of our common country".
            A few weeks before his inauguration as Governor in a letter to Hon. Stephen s. Harding, Lane said:
                        
                        If the election of a President constitutionally conducted in all respects is to furnish a
                            pretext for dissolving the Union, then the Union can only be saved by a base surrender of
                            that liberty which the constitution was ordained and established to protect and perpetuate,
                            and I, for one, am ready for no such sacrifice…. I am not ready to give up my
                            right to vote for whomever I please for President, nor do I yet feel like apologizing to the
                            "fire eaters" for being found in the majority once in twenty years. The
                            people of Indiana are true to the Union and loyal to the constitution, and I hope they will
                            be found ready to support the President in the free exercise of all his constitutional
                            powers, and to aid in the enforcement of the laws at all times and under all
                                circumstances.4
                  
                    
            
            During his term in the Senate, Lane loyally and constantly supported Lincoln and the war for the
                    Union. On January 21, 1862, he voted for the expulsion of his colleague, Senator Jesse D. Bright,
                    though not at all on personal grounds. He had good political reasons for opposing Bright but he
                    harbored no personal resentments. "There is no evidence", says Dr. Esarey
                    "that Lane ever had a personal enemy in the world". In his 
                  
                     4 Lane to Harding, Dee. 26. 1860. Harding Papers (mas.).
               
                     Senate speech on the Bright case, Lane used the occasion to
                    express his loyal support of the Union cause: 
                        I will vote the last dollar in taxes, the last soldier that may be called for, nay, more, I
                            will prosecute this war at any and all hazards, even though it should result in the
                            bankruptcy of every individual and corporation in the Union. I would give the very garments
                            off my shoulders to prosecute the war, nay, more, I would die a pauper and be buried by
                            publid charity rather than to suffer the war to fail for want of taxes.
                    There wag acclamation in the galleries and they had to be cleared for their applause.
            Lane retired from the Senate in 1867. Later he was a member of the 
                        United States
                     Indian Commission for two years, 1869-1871. He continued to retain an active interest
                    in politics. He was a delegate from Indiana to the Republican national conventions of 1868 and 1872.
                    He was, also, a member of the "Loyalist Convention" of 1866, representing the
                    Congressional, or anti-Johnson, party in the famous contest over Reconstruction.
            Lane's last days were spent in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , where he died on June 18, 1881, at the age of seventy. It is a pleasure to pay this
                    poor but sincere tribute to his honor. Here was a man who stood as a peer among the state's
                    famous public men of his day. His career and character were of a kind that give to the Commonwealth
                    encouragement and pride. It is fitting that there should be a memorial shrine to him in the
                    community in which he spent nearly fifty years of his life. It is fitting that the state of Indiana
                    should do him honor. It is fitting that the Historical Society of his state and our Pioneer Society,
                    should preserve the record of his life and public services and make this record available to the
                    children of the state from generation to generation. The commonwealth grows in honor by honoring its
                    worthy men.
         
         
         
            Samuel K. Hoshour: A Pioneer Educator
            BY ALBERT ROSS WILLIAMS
            
            William Lowe Bryan, President of Indiana University, recently asked a member of the varsity baseball
                    squad what he thought of "Cap" Anson as a baseball player. The reply was,
                    "I never heard of him." He could have asked any student in the School of Education
                    what he thought of Samuel K. Hoshour as an educator and in all probability the answer would have
                    been the same as that concerning the ball player. This does not infer that either of the students
                    was necessarily dull but it does emphasize the fact that many great men have their day and in most
                    cases are soon forgotten.
            This brief biographical sketch deals with a pioneer educator in Indiana who was influential in the
                    early days of the Seminaries. Also he was the first President of "Northwestern Christian
                    University" (now 
                        Butler
                     University) and was for a short time (1862) State Superintendent of Public Instruction.
            Samuel K. Hoshour was born in York County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , December 9, 1803. He was trained for the ministry in the Lutheran Church but became
                    converted to the "
                        Campbell
                    -ite Doctrine" and was ostracized from his own church for accepting that
                    belief. In order to secure peace of mind and freedom from persecution, he decided to migrate
                    westward and came to 
                  Centerville, Wayne County
               , Indiana, in 1833. Here he soon began his
                    long public career as a benefactor to the state.
            Professor Hoshour began his teaching career at the 
                        Wayne County
                     Seminary and was soon placed in charge of the school. His ability was immediately
                    recognized by the state for at the close of his first year at the Seminary he was appointed a
                    Trustee of Indiana University.
            Students came for many miles to "sit at his feet." Three students who came under
                    his tutelage at 
                        Centerville
                     and who later became outstanding men were: the eminent statesman, George W. Julian; the
                    War Governor and Senator, Oliver P. Morton; the author, diplomat, and soldier, General Lew Wallace.
                    One may turn to Lew Wallace's Autobiography and read several pages in
                    glowing tribute to his boyhood school-master.  He gives
                    Professor Hoshour the entire credit for discovering, stimulating, and developing his literary
                    interests.
            After four years at the 
                        Wayne County
                     Seminary, Professor Hoshour took charge of a similar school at 
                        Cambridge City
                    , Indiana, and here the same high standard of work was continued for many years, His
                    entire Seminary work is admirably summed up in Richard G. Boone's History of
                        Education in Indiana: 
                        He was a rare man, conscientious of both public and private duties, scholarly beyond his
                            contemporaries, a linguist of more than local reputation, a teacher of so generous
                            experience, and withal so inspiring to the young and so rich in the assurances of culture to
                            man and woman as to dignify the profession—a genius, but what is more rare,
                            always and easily in touch with the common mind—the universal need.
                    
            
            Ill health caused Professor Hoshour to give up regular teaching for a time, but he occasionally
                    taught classes in Summer School at Asbury College (now DePauw University), and, in the summer of
                    1848, he taught German at Indiana University. Rev. Andrew Wylie was President of the University at
                    that time and the two men became warm, personal friends.
            Professor Hoshour's real contribution to university work came with seventeen years of
                    service at Northwestern Christian University. For the first three years of this period, he was
                    President of the College, but the remainder of the time was spent as professor of foreign languages
                    and Bible. At various times, he taught French, German, Latin, and Greek. In 1864 the University
                    students presented him with a silver tea set as a token of the high esteem in which they held him.
                    He made a brief and fitting reply, closing his speech in four languages, thus: "Vobis gratis ego"—"Je vous
                        remercie"—"Ich dunke euch"—"I
                    thank you."
            Early in the year 1862 the State Superintendent of Public Instruction died and
                    Professor Hoshour was appointed by the Governor to fill the unexpired term. In the few months that
                    he was Superintendent, several progressive features were instituted. Perhaps the outstanding
                    achievement was the calling of a State convention for School Examiners. According to
                    Holcomb's Report of the State Superintendent of Public Instruction for
                    1884, "nearly all of the best features of our school organization and supervision [prior to
                    18841 came from the Examiner's meeting."
            
            Professor Hoshour introduced many more women into the schools with gratifying results. In 1860
                    twenty-two per cent, of the teaching force of the state were women, while by 1862 they had increased
                    to forty-two per cent. The Civil War, of course, rendered this transition easy and necessary. After
                    these contributions to the state, this educator did not desire to be a candidate for political
                    office so he returned to the classroom and contact with students whom he loved so well.
            Professor Hoshour did not pose as a writer, yet it would be unfair to him not to mention his
                    contributions in that field. While State Superintendent of Public Instruction his address on
                    "Education" so impressed the General Assembly that five thousand copies were
                    ordered to be printed for distribution. His lectures on "Sacred Time" and
                    "Show Thyself a Man" &re masterpieces of pure diction and common sense.
            His most famous contribution in the field of literature was a series of letters known as
                    "The Altisonant [high sounding] Letters." They were written for the purpose of
                    impressing upon the minds of students the meaning of unusual words in the English language. They
                    were devised, according to Meredith Nicholson, "As a kind of philological primer to be a
                    stepping stone from the current every day English to the Latin and Greek." Not many copies
                    of these letters are obtainable today but to the linguistically inclined it would be a delight to
                    search them out.
            Professor Hoshour married a young woman who was a helpful and faithful companion to him. Two sons and
                    five daughters were born into the home. The golden wedding anniversary was celebrated in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the newspapers of the day gave considerable space to the impressive occasion.
                    During the last few years of his life, the veteran teacher was very feeble. Death came on November
                    29, 1883. He was buried at Crown Hill Cemetery, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the city wherein he had lived and labored for so many years. There are still in
                    Indiana a few persons who have fond recollections of this untiring scholar, inspiring teacher and
                    loving friend. This survey of his life and work has been written because of a feeling that more of
                    the present generation should be able to say, "I know him."
         
         
         
            The Negro in Indiana Before 1881
            BY EARL E. MCDONALD
            
            In recent years a considerable literature has appeared dealing with the history of the Negro in the
                    Old Northwest, but no specific study of the Negro in Indiana has come to the attention of the
                    present writer. Here, as in 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    , the status of the Negro became a real problem and a real issue, especially in the
                    years just prior to the Civil War.1 The earliest Negroes in Indiana, as
                    elsewhere in the Old Northwest, were slaves. This paper is to tell the story of their slavery, of
                    the rise of the anti-slavery movement, of the problem of the fugitive slave, and of the condition of
                    the free Negro in Indiana.2
            
            The introduction of Negro slaves into the Old Northwest antedates by many years the conquest of the
                    region by the British. In the early eighteenth century, the French colonists had not only brought in
                    Negro slaves, but they had made slaves of a few of the Indians who inhabited the upper
                        Mississippi valley lands. When the English took control in 1763, there were
                    about nine hundred Negro slaves in the region of the French settlements in the 
                        Illinois
                     country, out of a total population of about three thousand. Slavery under the French
                    régime is supposed to have been of a considerably milder nature than under the British
                    and American system.3
            
            The British made no attempt to interfere with slavery in the Northwest settlements. By 1787 there
                    were three distinct classes of slaves: first, those owned by the French inhabitants prior to the
                    cession of the country to 
                        England
                     in 1763; second, those held by the British or Americans at the time our national
                    independence was recognized by 
                        England
                     in 1783; third, those brought in under the American administration.4 When 
                        Virginia
                     ceded the Northwest Territory, which had been saved by her forces under George Rogers
                    Clark, to the 
                        United States
                    , she stipulated that the inhabitants of 
                        Kaskaskia
                    
                    
                  
                     1
                            
                                Norman
                             Dwight Harris Negro Servitude in 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                             1904); Frank Uriah Quillin, The Color Line in 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (
                                Ann Arbor
                            , 1913): J. P. Dunn, Jr., Indiana (
                                Cambridge
                            , 1892).
                  
                     2 The present study is based largely upon Indiana statutes and court
                            decisions, though some use has been made of other sources while numerous secondary writings
                            have also been consulted.
                  
                     3 Harris, op. cit., pp. 1-5.
                  
                     4 Raymond V. Phelan, "Slavery in the Old Northwest,"
                            in 
                                Wisconsin
                            
                            Historical Society Proceedings, (1905), LIII, 253.
               
                     and the neighboring villages should not be deprived of their
                    ancient rights and privileges.
            The Northwest Ordinance of 1787 declared that "There shall be neither slavery nor
                    involuntary servitude in the said territory"—a violation, according to the
                    advocates of slavery, of the terms of cession. In Article II of the Ordinance, occured the following
                    passage which, under court decisions, affected the status of slaves who were held in the Territory
                    before 1787: "And, in the just preservation of rights and property, it is understood and
                    declared, that no law ought ever to be made or have force in the said territory, that shall, in any
                    manner whatever, interfere with or affect private contracts, or engagements, bona
                    fide, and without fraud previously formed." The people of what became Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     did not accept the Ordinance with enthusiasm. In 1802 Governor William Henry Harrison
                    called a convention in Indiana Territory for the purpose of petitioning Congress to repeal the
                    slavery prohibition of the Ordinance; and upon failure of Congress to heed this petition, a system
                    of indentures was devised to evade the restriction.5 The territorial legislature
                    provided that masters could bring their slaves in from other states, and before thirty days elapsed,
                    master and slave should appear before the clerk of a common pleas court and make out a voluntary
                    agreement or indenture of servitude for a definite term of years. If the Negro declined to consent,
                    he could at the option of his master, be removed to a slave holding state within sixty days. Under
                    this law, male Negro children under fifteen years of age were to serve until they were thirty-five
                    years of age; female children of like age were to serve until they were thirty-two. Children born in
                    the territory of such indentured Negroes were to serve to the age of thirty years, if males, or
                    twenty-eight, if females. Masters were to give security that their Negro
                    "servants" would not become public charges when freed.6 A
                    "black code" was also drawn up, providing for the transfer of indentures from
                    master to master with the consent of the servant, establishing a severe penalty for anyone who
                    should trade with a Negro servant without the master's consent, and requiring the master to
                    furnish 
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., p. 267; Harris, op. cit., pp. 6-7: John Codman
                            Hurd, Low of Freedom and Bondage, 2 vols. (
                                Boston
                            , 1858, 1862), II, 123 ff.
                  
                     6
                            Territorial Laws of Indiana, 1807-1808, p. 423, based on laws of 1803: a
                            repealing act of 1810 is not clear, Ter. Laws, 1810, 3d Assembly, 1st
                            Session, ch. 28, Section 1: also quoted in Hurd, op. cit., II,
                        124-126.
               
                     his Negroes with sufficient clothing, and
                    shelter—though no penalty was provided for failure to do so. The servant could retain
                    gifts or otherwise lawfully acquire money or property if the master gave his consent; and it was
                    also provided that even Negroes could hold indentured servants of their own color. Lazy or
                    indifferent servants, on an order from a justice of the peace in the county, could be punished by
                    whipping. No "servant" was to be away from his master's place without a
                    pass. If the Negro ventured to run away and was captured, he had to serve two days for every day
                    that he had been absent. Negroes could be sold at auction, used as security for notes or collateral
                    for the fulfillment of contracts, and were taxable property.7
            
            Several early travelers in Indiana mentioned slavery in their writings. John Melish, an English
                    merchant, wrote in 1812 that, "Slavery was originally prohibited, but the law has been
                    relaxed in favor of the new settlers who have slaves, and there are now 237 slaves in this
                        territory."8 David Thomas, a writer on agricultural subjects,
                    stated in 1816 that, slaves were so convenient that indentures were employed, though "it is
                    now generally understood that these articles must be declared nugatory whenever a legal
                    investigation shall be made."9 In 1820, Eneas MacKenzie recorded that
                    "The Constitution… declares that all men are free; but if their skins be black,
                    they are not included in this declaration, slaves being necessary for the ease and comfort of the
                    freemen of Indiana."10 William Forster, a minister of the Society of
                    Friends, spent several months in Indiana in 1821-1822. Of 
                        Vincennes
                     he wrote: "I am sorry to say that there are many slaves in the
                    town—I suppose mostly such as were held under the territorial government; but the state
                    legislature has made provision for their freedom. We hear sad stories of their kidnapping [to be
                    carried South]."11
            
            The will record of 
                        Knox County
                    , at 
                        Vincennes
                    , the county seat, mentions twenty-eight slaves or indentured Negroes by 
                  
                     7
                            Territorial Laws 1808 Second Session, 1st Assembly, Ch. 10: revised 1806
                            1807 Territorial Laws, 1807, vol. II, P. 647; a repealing act of 1810, Territorial Laws. 3d Assembly, 1st Session, Ch. 28, Sec. 8. is not clear.
                            See also Laws of Northwest Territory, 1788, Ch. 6, Sec. 19: Chase, Statutes of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , vol. 1, p. 97. The above mentioned laws are quoted in condensed form
                            by Hurd, op. cit., II, 114, 128-129. See also Harris, op.
                                cit., pp. 7-16.
                  
                     8 Harlow Lindley, ed., Indiana ad Seen by Early
                                Travellers, p. 34.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., p. 85.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., p. 245.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., p. 257. This hearsay was evidently not verified by the traveler who
                            reported it.
               
                     name, and there are two other references to slaves in the
                    plural but without definite statements as to their names or numbers. All of these wills were
                    admitted to probate between 1806 and 1823.12
            
            From territorial times in Indiana, there was strong opposition to slavery, though the Negro, bond or
                    free, was unpopular and undesired. The Constitution of 1816 was definitely anti-slavery and was
                    never to be amended in this respect,13 through it was evaded under the legal
                    fiction of servitude, as we have seen. The courts were distinctly unfavorable to involuntary
                    servitude in any form after the adoption of the constitution; the supreme court in 1820 decided that
                    slavery was entirely prohibited, even as against the descendants of the early French inhabitants,
                    who claimed the right to own slaves in perpetuity by terms of 
                        Virginia
                    's cession to the 
                        United States
                    .14 Though servitude by indenture persisted, the court ruled in 1821
                    that an application by a servant to be discharged from servitude on habeas corpus
                    proceedings proved that the service was involuntary within the meaning of the Constitution.15 In 1835 a writ of habeas corpus was granted to a Negro
                    woman, Vickey Demar, for the custody of her son, who had been turned over by the Negro man with whom
                    he had been living to the overseers of the poor and by them indentured. Justice M'Kinney of
                    the state Supreme Court ruled that the indenture was illegal because the child's parents
                    were not dead nor unable nor unwilling to support him, which were the conditions required before the
                    overseers could indenture a minor.16
            
            Legislation from territorial times had attempted to protect the Negro from kidnapping. In 1810 a fine
                    of a thousand dollars, civil damages, and disqualification from office holding had been provided as
                    a penalty for removing servants from the territory to enslave them,17 and in
                    1841 the state Legislature provided that the penalty for removing anyone from the state without
                    first establishing a legal claim should be a fine of one 
                  
                     12 Earl E. McDonald. "Disposal of Negro Slaves by Will in 
                                Knox County
                            , Indiana," In Indiana Magazine of History. XXVI,
                            143-146 (June, 1980). Some of the original indentures of negroes may be examined in the
                            collection to be found at the William Henry Harrison House in 
                                Vincennes
                            .
                  
                     13
                            Revised Statutes of Indiana, 1848, pp. 57-60, Constitution of 1816, Art.
                            III. Sec. 1, and Art. XI, Sec. 7; William Henry Smith, in his History of
                                Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1903), pp. 181-182, states: "A singular fact remains that while
                            slavery wan thus prohibited, slaves continued to be held until 1848 when the last one
                            died." See also Phelan, op. cit., p. 261: Dunn, op.
                                cit., RR. 296 and 406.
                  
                     14 I 
                                
                                    Blackford
                                
                             60, State v. Lasselli; ante, p. 292.
                  
                     15 I 
                                
                                    Blackford
                                
                             122, In re Clark.
                  
                     16 4 
                                
                                    Blackford
                                
                             182, Demar v. Simonson.
                  
                     17Hurd, op. cit., II, 126-180 (amended 1816,
                        1831).
               
                     hundred to five thousand dollars and imprisonment not less than
                    two or over fourteen years.18
            
            The problem of dealing with runaway and fugitive slaves arose quite early in Indiana and throughout
                    the Northwest. The Ordinance of 1787 and the federal Fugitive Slave Law of 1793 provided for the
                    return of fugitive slaves from other states, but the territorial legislature of Indiana did not
                    attempt to deal with this problem. Frequent reward offers for the return of negro runaways appeared
                    in the Indiana Gazette, a newspaper established at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1804, and the Western Sun, which followed the Gazette after 1807.19 State legislation commenced in 1816, when the negro
                    was given the right of a jury trial to defend himself from the charge of being a fugitive; but at
                    the same time penalties were provided for giving a false certificate of freedom to a negro or for
                    harboring or encouraging slaves to desert or for aiding resistance to the return of a fugitive
                    according to the law.20 The recapture of runaway negroes was made easier in
                    1824, when the law provided that any person claiming a negro as a fugitive should on an affidavit
                    secure a warrant from the clerk of any circuit court authorizing the claimant to bring the alleged
                    fugitive before any justice or higher court; there a summary decision as to the negro's
                    status should be made; if the we were decided for the claimant, the court should grant a certificate
                    to authorize removal of the Negro from the state; but either party, by paying the costs, could
                    appeal the case and have a trial by jury.21 Public sentiment, however, was
                    unfavorable to the return of fugitive slaves to their masters, on the part of many people in the
                    state. The attempt of Joseph Graves to recapture his slave in 
                        Elkhart county
                     led to a riot for which Graves was indicted, convicted, and fined thirty dollars,
                    whereupon he appealed to 
                  
                     18Revised Statutes, 1843, p. 962, Ch. 53, Art. 1 See. 11: re-enacted
                            in terms almost identical in 1852, after the new Constitution was adopted, Revised Statutes, I p. 400, Ch. 6, Sec. 13.
                  
                            
                        19 Sept. 11, 1804, John Instone offered $20.00 reward for
                                the return of his Negro Joe, twenty years old.
                            Sept. 18, 1804, Ezekiel Able offered fifty dollars for the return of Sam and Rebeccah.
                                November 17, 1807, 
                                    Montgomery
                                 Bell offered $200.00 for the return of his mulatto Billy.
                            November 25, 1807, John Taylor offered $80.00 for the return of two men and
                                woman, $90.00 if taken out of Indiana Territory.
                            December 9, 1807, Thomas Perham offered $60.00 for the return of Bob and
                                Moses.
                            January 6, 1808, D. Vertmer offered $50.00 for the return of Brooks.
                            December 3, 1808. Richard Wells offered $160.00 for the return of Bill.
                            December 31, 1808, Jacob Grey offered 120.00 for the return of Anthony.
                            March 6, 1809 L. Lebeanne offered $50.00 for the return of Matthew.
                            April 7, 1810. Jeremiah Elsberry offered $50.00 for the return of Harry.
                        
                  
                     20Hurd, op. cit., II, 126-121 (details several then
                            changed): Rvised Statutes, 1843. p. 984, Chi 53, Sec. 115. Penalty set at
                            $500.00 fine and civil damages.
                  
                     21
                            Revised Statutes, 1848. pp. 1032-1038, Ch. 62, Secs. 1-4: also Hurd, op. cit., II, 129.
               
                     the Supreme Court. The decision in this case, handed down in
                    1849, followed the principles stated in the more famous case of Prigg v.
                    
                        Pennsylvania
                    , that legislation in regard to fugitives was a prerogative of the national Congress,
                    hence Indiana laws on the subject were invalid.22 Three years later, the court
                    also ruled that the law against inducing Negroes to desert their masters and harboring them was
                    similarly invalid.23 Thus by 1852, the legislation of Indiana favorable to the
                    recovery of slaves had been completely broken down by judicial votes; but by this time the national
                    Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 was even more stringent than state legislation had been. Commissioners,
                    judges, and marshals of the 
                        United States
                     were to assist in the return of fugitives to their masters; for obstructing the
                    provisions of the act, or harboring or concealing fugitives, fines up to a thousand dollars and
                    imprisonment up to six months were established for each fugitive concerned; furthermore, the owner
                    was permitted to recover civil damages up to a thousand dollars per fugitive. The
                    commissioner's fee was ten dollars if he decided for the claimant, but five dollars if he
                    decided for the Negro.24
            
            Though legislation and court decisions indicate a steadily rising desire to protect the Negro from
                    slavery or involuntary servitude in Indiana, there were countless limitations upon the civil status
                    and legal rights of the Negro that persisted down to the end of the Civil War. In general, the Negro
                    was without political rights. As late as 1862, the state Supreme Court ruled that Negroes were not
                    citizens within the meaning of the federal or state constitutions.25 The
                    Constitution of 1816 gave the suffrage only to white men, and the same restriction was retained in
                    the Constitution of 1851.26 Laws of territorial times that remained on the
                    statute books denied the competency of Negroes to be witnesses in cases involving white
                    people," though they could testify in cases involving member of their 
                  
                     22
                            Indiana 368, Graves v. State.
                  
                     23
                            Indiana 480, Donnell v. State (case from 
                                Decatur County
                            ).
                  
                     24
                            
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Statutes at Large, 1853, I, 95-98.
                  
                     25
                            Indiana 449, Thomasson v. State; also 19 Indiana 457,
                            Haber, et al, v. State.
                  
                     26 Constitution of 1816, Art. II, See. 1, in Revised
                                Statutes, 1843, p. 55: Constitution of 1851, Art. II, Secs. 2, 5, in Revised Statutes, I, 1852, pp. 46-47. Section five states specifically that no
                            Negro or mulatto shall have the right of suffrage.
                  
                     27 Harris, op. cit., p. 9: Hurd, op.
                                cit., II, 128. Laws of 1817 defined Negro for this purpose as one having one-fourth
                            or more of Negro blood. See also Revised Statutes. 1843. p. 718. In 1853
                            an act made one-eighth Negro blood a barrier, 18 Indiana 119, Graham v, Crockett.
               
                     own race.28 The territorial acts of 1807
                    did not permit Negroes arrested for crime to be released on bail, though white offenders might be
                        released.29 Never, even to the present time, have Negroes been permitted to
                    serve in the militia.30
            
            There were even restrictions upon the right of Negroes to enter the state. An act of 1831 required
                    colored immigrants to give a bond for good behavior and self-support. Overseers of the poor were
                    authorized to hire out for six months any Negroes without such bonds, or on order of a justice, to
                    remove such Negroes from the state to the place of last legal residence. It was illegal for anyone
                    to employ any Negro who did not have such a bond. These restrictions remained in force until 1852,
                    and they were upheld by the courts.31 The Constitution of 1851, effective the
                    next year, went far beyond earlier limitations on colored migration to the state; its provisions
                    completely denied Negroes the right to enter the state, declared that any contracts made by Negroes
                    entering in violation of this provision should be void, and provided a penalty of ten to five
                    hundred dollars fine for employing or otherwise encouraging such Negroes to remain in the state, all
                    such fines collected to be appropriated for the foreign colonization of Negroes already in the
                        state.32 In fact, Indiana appeared so anxious to dispense with its colored
                    population that the legislature appropriated five thousand dollars to colonize Negroes, then
                    residents of Indiana, in Africa; hundred acre tracts of land were to be purchased and given to Negro
                    emigrants; if necessary, each Negro was to be given fifty dollars to induce him to leave the State.
                    County treasurers were authorized to accept donations and bequests for colonization purposes, and a
                    state Board of Colonization, composed of the governor and other high state officials, was
                        created.33 Negroes in the state prior to the adoption of the Constitution
                    were to register with the county clerk and receive a certificate of their right to remain in the
                    state. This certificate was required to give a Negro the right of contract or to legally gain
                    employment anywhere in the state. 
                  
                            28
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     29 Harris, op. cit., p. 10 (from the Acts of the
                            Third General Assembly of the Territory of Indiana).
                  
                     30 Constitution of 1851, Art. XII, See. 1, in Revised
                                Statutes, 1852, vol. 1, p. 66.
                  
                     31 Hurd, op. cit., II, 130; 5 
                                
                                    Blackford
                                
                             258, State v. Cooper: ibid., 288, Baptiste v. Hatcher; 8 
                                
                                    Blackford
                                
                             365, Hicklaand v. State: Revised Statutes, 1831,
                            p. 375; Revised Statutes, 1838, p. 418; 2 Indiana Digest 788: 9 Indiana
                            Digest 151-152.
                  
                     32 Constitution of 1851, Art. III. Secs. 1-3, in Revised
                                Statutes, 1852. vol. 1, p. 67.
                  
                     33
                            Revised Statutes, 1852, vol. I, p. 222.
               
                     Any Negro entering the state was to be fined from ten to five
                    hundred dollars.34
            
            Numerous cases arising under the provisions of this law came before the courts. Arthur Barkshire, a
                    colored man of Rising Sun, in 1854 married a colored woman wha lived across the 
                        Ohio
                     line and brought her into Indiana to live as his wife. He was indicted for harboring a
                    colored person, convicted, and fined ten dollars in the circuit court of 
                        Ohio county
                    ; he appealed to the state Supreme Court on the ground that his marriage took the case
                    out of the statute, but the court ruled that inasmuch as marriage was only a civil contract in
                    Indiana, and contracts with Negroes entering the state after the adoption of the Constitution were
                    void, the marriage of Barkshire was void, and the judgment of the circuit court was upheld.35 In 1859 a man named Bowles was acquitted on an indictment for bringing a
                    colored woman into the state, inasmuch as the statute provided penalties only for harboring,
                    employing, or otherwise encouraging Negroes to remain in the state, and the indictment did not
                    allege that the defendant did more than bring the negress into the state.36
                    Mabon Hatwood, a mulatto, was prosecuted in 1862 for settling in the state since the adoption of the
                    Constitution, but he was able to show that he had been in the state for six years, thereby defeating
                    conviction by the statute of limitations.37 In 1861 a man named Curzy was
                    convicted, on appeal of Attorney-General O. B. Hord from an acquittal in the 
                        Jefferson County
                     Common Pleas Court, of employing a Negro man who had entered the state contrary to
                        law.38 The constitutional provision upon which these laws were based had
                    been adopted by a popular vote of more than five to one, showing clearly the strong aversion of
                    Hoosiers to the coming of Negroes into the state.39
            
            There was little educational opportunity for Negroes in early Indiana; the school law provided only
                    for the education of white children, and a state Supreme Court decision of 1850 denied even the use
                    of the public schools to colored people who paid their own tuition. The court held that the intent
                    of the 
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., p. 375. The constitutional restrictions on negro immigration were
                            all carried out by legislative enactments.
                  
                     35 7 Indiana 389, Barkshire v.
                            State.
                  
                     36 13 Indiana 427, Bowles v.
                            State.
                  
                     37 18 Indiana 492, Hatwood v.
                            State.
                  
                     38 19 Indiana. 430, State v.
                            Curzy.
                  
                     39 Quillin. op. cit., p. 9.
               
                     Legislature had been to bar Negro children from the schools on
                    the ground that they were unfit associates for white children. Separate schools for Negroes were
                    permitted, however, though they were not supported by taxation.40
            
            Intermarriage was strictly forbidden. Marriage was by law only a civil contract in Indiana, and
                    stringent provisions were made to prevent mixed marriages. Even though a black and a white person
                    left the state to be married, returning to Indiana, the marriage was void. A minister, justice, or
                    judge who performed such a marriage ceremony was to be fined up to five hundred dollars and forever
                    after to be deprived of the authority to solemnize marriages. Any marriage so performed in spite of
                    the law was to be absolutely void, and any offspring to be deemed illegitimate. The prohibition
                    extended to any persons having one-eighth or more of Negro blood, and the penalty for willful
                    violation was imprisonment at hard labor for a period of one to ten years. In addition there was to
                    be a fine of one thousand to five thousand dollars, and any person who knowingly encouraged or
                    assisted in such marriage was to be fined from one hundred to one thousand dollars.41
            
            The preceding pages have presented a picture of the status and condition of the Negro in Indiana
                    before the Civil War. Slavery had existed for many years, under the fiction of servitude, in spite
                    of constitutional or legislative prohibitions. The Negro was not permitted to vote, he could not be
                    a juror or join the militia or testify in any law case involving white people, nor could he send his
                    children to the public schools. There was an intense opposition to the growth of the Negro
                    population. It was alleged that free Negroes were lazy and shiftless; that they were unable to
                    support themselves and frequently became dependent upon the community; that they competed with white
                    citizens; that they were demoralizing to the community and particularly to the youth; that they
                    committed an undue proportion of crime.42
            
            While these charges obviously had some basis, all responsibility cannot be placed on the colored
                    race; no one had taught them to live according to white standards, and the intensity of race
                    prejudice did not encourage a rising standard of 
                  
                     40 2 Indiana 332, Lewis v. Henley:
                            20 Indiana 268. Draper v.
                            
                                Cambridge
                            .
                  
                     41
                            Revised Statutes, 1843, pp. 361, 595-600.
                  
                     42 These charges were common elsewhere against the negro, Quillin, op. cit., pp. 26-30, 55-56.
               
                     living among the Negroes. Nevertheless, the status of Negroes
                    in Indiana did show improvement in the years leading up to the war. Territorial Indiana had
                    legalized a form of slavery, though contrary to the spirit of the Northwest Ordinance; the state
                    Constitution abrogated the arrangement in theory but not in fact; finally the courts, after
                    sustaining "indentured servitude" and even slavery for a period of years, aided by
                    public opinion, brought about the actual end of slavery in the state by 1843. During the entire
                    period Negroes were denied the common privileges of citizenship, but they were at least protected
                    from undue exploitation, particularly from kidnapping and sale into the neighboring slave holding
                    states of the South. Furthermore, it became increasingly difficult to enforce legislation for the
                    return of actual fugitive slaves from the slave holding states. Almost as a paradox, the same period
                    witnessed a strengthening of legislation to bar any new movement of colored people into the state.
                    Beginning in 1831 entrance to the state was conditioned upon the filing of bonds for good behavior
                    and self-support, while, in 1852, negroes were completely barred, by constitutional provisions and
                    law, from entrance to the state. Indiana never, at any time before the Civil War, become an
                    abolitionist state. On the contrary, the Negro was not fully a freeman, but was regarded as
                    presenting a constant, a growing, a dangerous, and an unwelcome problem.
            The sentiment of the state is revealed by the effectiveness with which the laws on Negro immigration
                    were put into operation. Between 1800 and 1850 the Negro population of the state had been slowly but
                    steadily increasing, while from 1850 to 1860 the growth of colored population of Indiana was the
                    smallest ever recorded, being only 166. During the decade of the sixties, however, enforcement
                    totally failed, and the increase in Negro population was three times that of any previous decade.43
            
            
               
                  43 Compendium of the Ninth Census (
                            Washington
                        , 1872), pp. 12-17, and Compendium of the Tenth Census (1882). pp.
                        2-3. 
                     Negro population of Indiana:
                     
                        Year
                        Number
                        Increase
                     
                     
                        1800
                        298
                        —
                     
                     
                        1810
                        630
                        332
                     
                     
                        1820
                        1,420
                        790
                     
                     
                        1830
                        3,632
                        2,212
                     
                     
                        1840
                        7,168
                        3,536
                     
                     
                        1850
                        11,262
                        4,094
                     
                     
                        1860
                        11,428
                        166∗
                        
                     
                     
                        1870
                        24,560
                        13,132
                     
                     
                        1880
                        39,228
                        14,668
                     
                  
               
            
            
            Toward the close of the War, a strong movement arose to repeal the disabilities applied to Negroes by
                    the Constitution of Indiana and the state laws. In 1864 the Western Yearly Meeting of Friends,
                    assembled at Plainf ield, petitioned the Legislature to this effect. A Republican member of the
                    lower house proposed a constitutional amendment in 1865 to strike out Article XIII, relating to
                    immigration, colonization, and civil disabilities of Negroes. After a favorable report from the
                    house committee on constitutional amendments, the proposal was placed on the table, then brought out
                    in the special session of the same year and passed by the house, only to be defeated in the senate
                    by the narrow margin of 21 to 22.44 The following year, each political party
                    recognized the issue, the Democratic platform declaring that "we are opposed to the repeal
                    of the Thirteenth Article of the Constitution of Indiana prohibiting Negroes and mulattoes from
                    settling in this state, and now, more than ever, deprecate the entrance of that class of persons
                    within its borders; and we most emphatically condemn and disapprove the action by the Republican
                    majority in the late General Assembly of Indiana in passing through the House a joint resolution
                    providing for the abrogation of that article in the Constitution." The Union (Republican)
                    platform merely declared "that the power to determine the qualifications requisite for
                    electors in each state, rests with the States respectively."45
            
            The most important factor in bringing about the repeal of Indiana's restrictions on the
                    Negro was a decision handed down by the state supreme court in 1866 to the effect that Negroes,
                    under the thirteenth amendment to the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    , were entitled to make and enforce contracts, and that the provisions of the Indiana
                    Constitution contrary to this were unconstitutional.46 As a result of this
                    decision, Governor Morton recommended to the Legislature in 1867 that the unconstitutional
                    provisions of the state constitution and laws should be formally wiped out. No action was then taken
                    to amend the constitution, but the laws to enforce Article XIII, 
                  
                     44 Charles Kettleborough. Constitution Making in
                            Indiana 2 vols. (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916). II. 57-60, 75: House Journal, 44th Session, pp. 44.
                            92: Senats Journal. 44th Session, p. 758. Proceedings of the House and
                            Senate may be traced in Kettleborough, Constitution Making, based directly
                            on the Journals.
                  
                     45
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal Feb. 23. and March 16. 1866. The Republicans won a sub stantial
                            majority in each House. The Democratic platform in 1868 flatly opposed federal regulation of
                            the suffrage; Journal, Jan. 9. These reports are found in Kettleborough,
                                op. cit., II, 78-79. 85.
                  
                     46 26 Indiana 299, Smith v. Moody
                                et al. Smith, a negro, had entered the state illegally. The ease arose
                            over an attempt to avoid the fulfillment of a contract entered into with him.
               
                     dealing with immigration, colonization, contracts with negroes
                    illegally in the state, harboring Negroes, and registration were repealed.47 A
                    new registration law was passed, but it was later declared unconstitutional.48
            
            After ratification of the fourteenth and fifteenth amendments to the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                     there was a long delay before Indiana adopted similar amendments to her state
                    constitution. In 1873 a resolution was introduced in the state senate to extend the suffrage to
                    Negroes and to strike out entirely the exclusion and colonization provisions. Both houses adopted
                    the resolution, but no action was taken to bring the proposed changes to a vote of the people, which
                    must be done before any amendment could be added to the constitution.49 The time
                    limit for holding the vote had expired in 1877, but upon the advise of Governor Hendricks the
                    legislature again adopted resolutions similar to those carried in 1873, though still failing to make
                    any provision for the referendum that was necessary to make the proposals effective as
                    constitutional amendments.50 Finally, the legislature of 1879 agreed that the
                    amendments should be submitted to the people on the first Monday in April, 1880.51 Three of the amendments were simply to strike out the word "white" from
                    the suffrage requirement or to eliminate clauses barring negroes from the right of suffrage. Another
                    amendment proposed to annul all provisions of Article XIII dealing with the exclusion of Negroes
                    from the state, forbidding the making of contracts, abrogating other rights and relating to
                    colonization. Each amendment carried a majority of the votes cast and it appeared that Indiana had
                    now made her state constitution consistent with the provisions of the national Constitution, but
                    again difficulty arose.52 The Indiana constitution provides that amendments
                    shall be effective only when ratified by a majority of the voters of the state. The official number
                    of voters in the state was considerably greater than the number who actually participated in the
                    election 
                  
                     47 Kettleborough, op. cit., II, 79. A section of the
                            colonization law providing for the payment of a salary of $600 per year to the
                            Secretary of the Colonization Board had been repealed in 1865, and no more mention was made
                            of the functions of the Board. Laws of Indiana, 1865, p. 63.
                  
                     48 35 Indiana 486, Quinn v. State.
                  
                     49 Kettleborough, op. cit., II, 118-121, refers to
                            Senate Journal, 48th Session, 1031.
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., II, 131-146, refers to House Journal, 49th
                            Session, P. 16,0 and 50th Session, pp. 368-371; Senate Journal, 50th
                            Session, pp. 616-620. See also Laws of Special Session. 1877, p. 85.
                  
                     51 Kettleborough., op. cit., II, 150-158: Laws, 51st Session, p. 25: Report of the Secretary of State
                                for 1830, p. 96.
                  
                     52 Kettleborough, op. cit., II, 158, 167.
               
                     on the amendments, and none of the amendments were carried by a
                    majority of the total number of voters living in the state. A test case came before the supreme
                    court over the registration of a colored man in New 
                        Albany
                    , and the judges held that the amendments had not been legally adopted, since it was
                    evident that less than a majority of the total number of voters had cast their ballots in the
                    affirmative. The court added, however, that the Legislature had the authority to declare
                    "that the whole number of votes cast at the election at which an amendment is submitted may
                    be taken as the whole number of electors of the State at that time."53
                    Again the proposed amendments had to come before the people. Both the outgoing and the incoming
                    governor recommended the resubmission of the amendments at another election, and a bill to that
                    effect was passed, containing the clause that the number of voters in the state should be considered
                    the number casting votes at the special election. Again the amendments carried, this time by a
                    majority of nearly three to one.54
            
            These amendments, added to the constitution in 1881, placed the Negro on a higher plane, politically,
                    than he had ever attained in Indiana to that time, but even yet there was a disability. Never has he
                    been permitted to join the state militia. An attempt was made in the Legislature of 1885 to amend
                    the constitution in this respect, but the proposal was not then submitted to the voters and after
                    some years practically all effort to make this change died out.55
            
            During the years of agitation to lift the ban on Negro suffrage, other changes were also occuring to
                    improve the status of colored people in Indiana. The first steps to provide any public educational
                    facilities for Negro children were taken in 1869, when the law declared that the property of Negroes
                    as well as that of white people should be taxed for school purposes, that separate enumeration
                    should be made of colored children, and that separate schools should be maintained where
                    practicable. In case there were not enough colored pupils to justify a separate school, some other
                    means of education were to be provided so as to use the proper proportion of school revenue 
                  
                     53 69 Indiana 606, State v. Swift:
                            Kettleborough, op. cit., II, 168-176, refers to 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal. June 18, 1880, reporting action of Republican State Convention
                            congratulating people on the adoption of the amendments.
                  
                     54
                            Laws, 52nd Session, 29; Kettleborough, op. cit., II,
                            177-186, 204-207; Report of Secretary of State 1881, p. 153.
                  
                     55 Kettleborough, op. cit., II, 240, 254.
                  
                     56
                            Laws, 1869, p. 41.
               
                     for their benefit.56 An amendment was made
                    to this law in 1877 to the effect that where no Negro schools were maintained, colored children
                    should be permitted to attend school with white children; and where the Negro school did not provide
                    the upper grades, colored children should be admitted to the public school after being examined to
                    determine fitness to enter the upper grades.57 The law of 1869 came before the
                    supreme court in 1874 through the suit of a Negro father to compel the admission of his children to
                    a public school, and the court upheld the legislation, declaring that it did not grant special
                    privileges to any class, that it did not violate the constitutional obligation to maintain a free
                    and uniform system of schools, that it did not conflict with any article of the national
                    Constitution, nor the Civil Rights Bill passed by Congress, and that the public schools in Indiana
                    constituted purely a domestic system. Racial segregation in schools did not amount to the exclusion
                    of either class.58 Another case, arising in 1882 under the amendment of 1877,
                    sought to compel the trustee to organize a separate school for colored children, but the supreme
                    court held that the trustee was not required to do so where such action was impracticable, and that
                    it was proper for colored children in such districts to attend school with white children.59 In another case, suit was brought to compel the trustee to admit a colored
                    pupil to a public school which was already overcrowded with white children, and the court decided
                    that the colored pupil might be excluded on that basis.60
            
            The Negro's rights in the courts had improved from the early years of the Civil War. In 1861
                    the law against Negro testimony in cases involving white people had been modified to the extent that
                    when a Negro was denied the right to testify in his own trial, his white opponent should also be
                    excluded from giving testimony.61 Four years later a special session of the
                    Legislature swept away all restrictions on the testimony of such Negroes as had legally entered the
                    state, but those who had entered or who there-after entered in violation of Article XIII of the
                    constitution of the state were not to be competent to testify "while such article remains
                    in force" in any case involving a white person.62 By 1872 legislation
                    did not discriminate 
                  
                     57
                            Laws, 1877, p. 124.
                  
                     58 48 Indiana 327, Cory et al. v.
                            Carter.
                  
                     59 85 Indiana 213, State, Ex Rel. Oliver et al., v. Grubb, Trustee.
                  
                     60 93 Indiana 303, State, ex rel. Mitchel, v. Gray et al., School Trustees.
                  
                     61
                            Laws of Indiana, 1861, p. 52.
                  
                     62
                            Laws of Special Session, 1865, p. 162.
               
                     on account of color in the matter of requirements of witnesses
                    and of jurors.63
            
            The earlier laws, against racial intermarriage continued in fore in the post-war years. In a case
                    coming before the supreme court of Indiana in 1871, a Negro claimed that article fourteen of the
                    amendments to the national Constitution abrogated state laws against intermarriage, but the state
                    court upheld the previously established judicial statement that marriage is only a civil contract in
                    Indiana, and that "neither the Fourteenth Amendment… nor the Civil Rights Bill
                    passed by Congress has impaired or abrogated the laws of this state on the subject of the marriage
                    of whites and Negroes. Such a marriage is a criminal offense by the statutes of this
                        State."64
            
            In the years from the opening of the Civil War to 1881, the Negro had gained more and more the status
                    of a full citizen. First the laws opposing entrance to the state broke down, the decade of the
                    sixties showing the heaviest Negro growth in the history of the state to that time. Then by judicial
                    decision, the Negroes gained the right to make and enforce contracts in the state, in spite of
                    contrary sections in the state constitution. The amendments to the national Constitution rendered
                    the colonization laws of Indiana obsolete. Beginning in 1861, and continuing until 1871, the Negro
                    gained the right to testify in court and to be a juror. While some separate Negro schools were
                    established, the law called for a fair distribution of school revenue between the white and colored
                    schools. The right to enter the upper grades of public schools where no such grades were maintained
                    in Negro schools was conditioned upon passing an examination, though there was no assurance that the
                    examination would be fair. Full equality in voting was gained by the amendments of 1881, and the
                    only discrimination remaining in the constitution was exclusion from the militia. While
                    intermarriage of the races was still forbidden, it worked no hardship on the Negro and there was no
                    sentiment of any strength favoring the repeal of this law. Full social equality did not exist, as
                    shown in the so-called Civil Rights Cases coming before the supreme court; yet, measured by the
                    condition of Negroes in the state before the war, the advancement 
                  
                     63
                            Laws, 1872, Special Session, pp. 159, 228.
                  
                     64 36 Indiana 389, State v.
                            Gibson. The national Civil Rights Law prohibiting the denial of equal accommodations at
                            inns, amusement places, etc., was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of the 
                                United States
                            . See 109 United Stabs 3, Civil Rights Cases.
               
                     is striking. In every legal and political respect, save in the
                    right to join the militia, the Negro by 1881 had become a freeman, enjoying the full privileges of
                    citizenship. Indeed a far step had been taken from the decade prior to the Civil War when an Indiana
                    newspaper published the following passages, indicative at that time of the sentiment of Indiana
                    toward the Negro: 
                        A new Constitution has just been adopted by Indiana, which prohibits the further immigration
                            of this class (Negroes) into our State. The slave who is set free by his 
                                Kentucky
                             master, and who is compelled by the law of that State to leave its borders or
                            be again subjected to slavery, will no longer find a home and an asylum in Indiana.
                            Theoretical philanthropists may tell us that this is not according to the law and the
                            requirements of justice, and is a violation of the Golden Rule…. This we are
                            ready to admit. But there is a law of self defense and of self-preservation higher than
                            these….
                        Indiana, by the action of her neighbors, has found herself in the positions we have assumed
                            (of self defense and self-preservation). 
                                Kentucky
                             will not permit a freed negro to remain within her borders; 
                                Illinois
                             has strictly forbidden the further immigration into that State; and there is
                            every probability that 
                                Ohio
                             will do the same. But two courses remained for Indiana to pursue—she
                            must either become the receptacle of the wandering, worthless, and corrupting negro
                            population of the surrounding States, or else, like them, adopt some stringent means of
                            protecting herself against the alarming evil with which she was threatened. The question was
                            left to a free and untrammeled decision of the people and the result is such as might have
                            been expected. With a unanimity seldom equalled in the decision of any political question,
                            they have said, "Ours is the land of the white man; we cannot consent to divide our
                            birthright with our inferiors: we shall remain—the negroes must leave or consent
                            to be forever held in subjection."65
                  
                    
            
            Indiana in 1881 abandoned every legal provision for excluding Negroes from the state. Before the law
                    at least, they had become citizens of the commonwealth, the equals of other citizens.
            
               
                  65
                        Ohio Valley Gazette, August 21, 1851 (
                            Vevay
                        , Indiana), quoting. from the New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Ledger. The Gazette was a weekly. A partial file is in the
                            Burton Historical Collection of the 
                            Detroit
                         Public Library.
            
         
         
         
            Medical Educational Institutions in Indiana1
            
            BY Dr. MURRAY N. HADLEY
            
            It is with no thought of completeness that the writer submits the following brief outline of the
                    history of medical educational institutions in Indiana, but rather to afford a background for a
                    better understanding of the status of modern educational standards in the field of medicine in the
                    state.
            It is, I think, a rather widely accepted belief that there exists a good deal of confusion in the
                    public mind, not to say dissatisfaction, with modern medical practices. The high cost of medical
                    service and the growth of various kinds of cults—some frankly commercial, some religious,
                    some quasi-religious, but all professing to be able to relieve mankind of diseases—both
                    point to a confused state of the public mind relative to matters of health and disease.
            A partial explanation of this situation, I believe, is to be found in the profound change that has
                    taken place in medical education in the last twenty-five years. As evidence of this, prior to the
                    year 1908, not a cent of money had been contributed by the state to the cause of medical education
                    in Indiana and the total resources of all medical educational institutions in the state were
                    slightly in excess of $100,000. Today, such resources amount to approximately
                    $4,000,000—mostly from philanthropic endowments.
            Corresponding with this physical expansion and under the influence of the university-trained
                    educator, who now has a hand in shaping the medical curriculum, medical education has for its
                    objects much the same aims as a liberal arts education—that is, the stimulation of the
                    spirit of scientific curiosity in the student. Medical education has been changed from a narrow,
                    technical course in the art of medicine to a liberal course in basic sciences and, as a result, has
                    tended to make of the medical graduate something more than a technically trained adviser. The
                    medical student of today is a most serious-minded, hard-working student who takes himself seriously
                    and who feels that he is in pursuit of a career that demands the best efforts of which he is
                    capable.
            This broadening of the field of medical education has resulted 
                  
                     1 This paper was read at the annual Conference of the Indiana
                            Historical Society held at 
                                Indianapolis
                            . December 11-18, 1980.
               
                     in lengthening the course until, at the present time, seven
                    years following graduation from a high school is the minimum of time required by many schools. It
                    has, at the same time, added tremendously to the expense entailed in acquiring a medical education.
                    These facts contribute largely to the unequal distribution of medical graduates, who, on account of
                    the long and expensive course of preparation, prefer to locate in larger cities where opportunities
                    for professional success are admittedly better than in rural communities.
            The history of medical education in Indiana began with the brave but futile effort on the part of a
                    small group of pioneer physicians at LaPorte, Indiana, in 1842, to improve the educational seandards
                    of their profession. For sixty years following this date, many similar efforts were made to organize
                    and maintain medical colleges in various cities of the state. Some of these schools were organized
                    by men of high professional accomplishment and with earnest and intelligent efforts to improve the
                    medical educational standards. Others were frankly commercial and appear to have had no object other
                    than an exploitation of personal ambitions. Some attempts were the outgrowth of sectarian systems of
                    therapeutics, which today have practically disappeared from the field of controversial medicine.
            Between 1842, the date of the organization of the Medical Department of LaPorte University, and 1905,
                    the date of the merger of all the then existing medical colleges, except one, into the Medical
                    Department of Purdue University, the records show that twenty-four medical colleges were organized
                    in the state. Indiana stands fifth in the number of medical colleges organized, being led only by
                            
                  Illinois, Missouri, Ohio
               , and 
                        New York
                    . In the organization of the Medical Department of LaPorte University, the moving spirit
                    seems to have been one Dr. Meeker, who, prior to the organization of the school, delivered lectures
                    to private classes.
            An issue of the LaPorte County Whig of 1842, after naming the faculty, says in an
                    editorial: "These gentlemen are now giving their first lectures to an attentive and
                    intelligent class. This institution now in its infancy gives the flattering assurance to this
                    western country of its future high destiny and extensive usefulness." This short comment,
                    culled from the files of an almost century-old newspaper, breathes the spirit of dignified  and hopeful optimism with which our forefathers viewed the
                    founding of a pioneer medical institution. By 1847, the school had one hundred and four students, a
                    remarkable number under the circu'mstances, and was considered one of the best institutions
                    in the West. The other departments of La-Porte University did not thrive. In 1847, therefore, the
                    name of the Medical Department was changed to The Indiana Medical College.
            Rush Medical College at 
                        Chicago
                     and the Medical Department of the University of 
                        Michigan
                    , at 
                        Ann Arbor
                    , both located in relatively close proximity to LaPorte and organized at about the same
                    time, were much more substantial institutions and gradually drew patronage away from the LaPorte
                    school. It ceased to exist in 1857.
            The next serious attempt to organize a medical college in Indiana occurred in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1869, when the Indiana Medical College was established. This date marks the
                    beginning of that leadership in medical education, which 
                        Indianapolis
                     has maintained until the present time. In so far as the organization of its faculty is
                    concerned, this institution continued to exist, although frequently changing its official title,
                    until its final merging with Indiana University in 1908, a period of thirty-nine years. Briefly
                    stated, the facts of its official career are as follows: Organized as The Indiana Medical College in
                    1869; merged with The Central College of Physicians and Surgeons of Indiana in 1878 to form the
                    Medical College of Indiana; in 1895, taken over by the University of 
                        Indianapolis
                     to become the Medical Department of that institution; in 1905, merged with The Central
                    College of Physicians and Surgeons of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and The Fort 
                        Wayne
                     College of Medicine to form The Indiana Medical College, or School of Medicine of
                    I'urdue University; in 1908, withdrawn from Purdue to become the Indiana University School
                    of Medicine.
            The last date, 1908, marks an epoch in the history of medical education in Indiana, as it was at this
                    time that the privately owned and controlled medical college ceased to exist, the state assuming the
                    responsibility of medical education in Indiana. At the time when it was finally merged with Indiana
                    University, The Indiana Medical College closed a long and honorable career. It had graduated some
                    sixteen hundred students, and accumulated property to the value of $100,000, which was
                         turned over to the state as a gift. It had during its
                    history numbered among its teachers many of the leading practitioners of medicine and surgery in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Ten years after the organization of the Indiana Medical College, that is, in 1879, the Central
                    College of Physicians and Surgeons already mentioned was organized in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Though somewhat limited in resources, this school continued in active existence until
                    1905, at which time the merger with Purdue University was brought about. It numbered among its
                    faculty through the years some of the most brilliant medical minds of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and indeed of the entire state.
            The Fort 
                        Wayne
                     College of Medicine which was organized in 1879 continued until it was merged with
                    Purdue University in 1905 along with The College of Physicians and Surgeons. A number of prominent
                    Indiana physicians were at times members of the faculty of this institution and its presence in Fort 
                        Wayne
                     was an indication of the interest in medical education which that city has always
                    manifested.
            These three schools, The Medical College of Indiana, The Central College of Physicians and Surgeons,
                    and the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     Medical College, may be said to have largely dominated the field of medical education
                    from the middle of the nineteenth century to the final merger with Indiana University in 1908. Under
                    the limitations of their resources, these institutions made an honest and intelligent effort to
                    discharge the duties and responsibilities which they had undertaken. It may be said without
                    prejudice that the men responsible for these medical colleges maintained high traditions of personal
                    service, sacrifice, and ability in teaching that has not been excelled in Indiana.
            Any discussion of medical schools and medical education in Indiana would be incomplete without
                    reference to the existence of a number of colleges organized specifically for the teaching of
                    certain so-called "sectarian systems of therapeutics." The present generation of
                    physicians has happily been spared the deep-seated hatreds and intolerance which prevailed a
                    generation ago and divided the medical body into hostile groups of bitter antagonists. The story of
                    schisms, that almost wrecked the medical profession as an agency of public welfare, is an old and
                    long one. The intolerance which siezed and entirely possessed the medical minds of that day resulted
                    in absolute  professional and social ostracism for the adherents
                    of the various opposing systems of therapeutic practice. There probably has never been a better
                    demonstration of the liberalizing influence of knowledge and education to dispel the spirit of
                    intolerance than that shown by the history of medicine. As soon as young men began to be taught the
                    same scientific facts in chemistry, biology, and physics, there was no longer room for a spirit of
                    intolerance upon the subject of therapeutic practice. There is and always will be an honest
                    difference of opinion as to the relative value of therapeutic agents but it will not be based upon a
                    spirit of intolerance springing from one or another school or system of therapeutics.
            The records show the existence of six schools of this type—four eclectic medical colleges
                    and two physio-medical colleges, all of which are now extinct. The four eclectic medical colleges
                    were all located in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . They never prospered, and each was in existence but a short time. One of the
                    physio-medical colleges was located in 
                        Marion
                     and the other in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The latter, called The Physio-Medical College of Indiana, was organized in 1873 and
                    graduated a class each subsequent year including 1909, after which year it became extinct. This
                    school flourished for a period of thirty-six years, having a history but three years shorter than
                    that of the Indiana Medical College, making its life the second longest of any medical college in
                    the state. It was the only one of the sectarian schools that made a serious attempt to meet the
                    growing requirements of medical education. Among its faculty were a number of well known medical
                    practitioners of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . There are yet living a good many successful physicians who are graduates of the
                    Physio-Medical College of Indiana.
            Among this group of sectarian schools was one, unique in its aims and avowed purposes. It adopted the
                    ambitious title, The American Medical College. It proposed to be the center of a national medical
                    organization, named "The American Association of Physicians and Surgeons". It had
                    as its official publication the Medical Free Press, published in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a few copies of which may be found in the Indiana State Library. According to an
                    address delivered by the Hon. Will Cumback at an annual commencement of this institution held in
                    March, 1896, the ostensible aims of the school were as follows: "This  is the first College in the world which has for its object the teaching
                    of all medicine on a scientific basis, teaching medicine in all its phases, with a view of breaking
                    down sectarian bigotry." The simple method by which this school proposed to destroy
                    "sectarian bigotry" was to teach all schools of medical practice, Allopath,
                    Homoepath, Eclectic and Physio-Medical, giving the student his choice of enlisting under the banner
                    of calomel and quinine, echinacea, passiflora, or Lloyds specifics. This commencement address
                    delivered by Cumback is well worth reading, as it shows the confused and irritated condition of the
                    public mind on medical matters as well as a complete ignorance of the methods necessary to correct
                    the faults the speaker so bitterly and justly criticised. The American Medical College was organized
                    in 1893 and became extinct in 1897.
            The final step in the evolution of medical educational institutions began in 1903, at which time
                    negotiations were begun on the part of a group of Indiana medical colleges to unite with Indiana
                    University. As already indicated, this step was inevitable. The growing demands of medical
                    education, requiring heavy financial support, made it impossible for the privately owned
                    institutions to meet these demands. Either state aid or philanthropic endowments or both were
                    necessary for the maintenance of medical institutions of sufficient merit to justify their continued
                    existence.
            Philanthropic endowments on behalf of medical education, such as are being built up under state
                    administration at this time, could never have been obtained for the privately owned medical
                    colleges. The steady stream of endowments which has flowed to Indiana University for the support of
                    medical education since 1908 is an abundant justification of the wisdom of the men who, at a large
                    sacrifice of personal interests, advocated and finally sucweded in merging all the then existing
                    medical schools, except one, in the state, and the subsequent union with Indiana University.
            It would be a mistake, however, to assume that the events associated with the merger of medical
                    schools with the University were always peaceful and marked with good will. Probably the fiercest
                    medical war that ever occurred in the state went on for a time. The public press took notice and
                    there was hardly a community in Indiana that did not feel the effects of this contest. Inasmuch as
                    the two state universities, Purdue  and Indiana, were involved,
                    loyal alumni interested themselves in the controversy, with the result that medical education was
                    the most widely discussed topic for a period.
            The merits of this controversy have ceased to be of interest and have no historical significance, for
                    the reason that the issues involved were predominantly personal. It could make but little difference
                    to the public or to the cause of medical education whether the state undertook this responsibility
                    through Indiana University, at 
                        Bloomington
                    , or through Purdue University, at 
                        Lafayette
                    . The vitally important thing was to get the state to undertake the task and assume the
                    burden.
            It appears, from this distance, that the whole question of whether or not it was a wise policy for
                    the State to assume the control of medical education was lost sight of in the fierce struggle for
                    possession between Indiana University and Purdue University. It is at least a question whether, if
                    the issue before the state Legislature had been state control or non-state control, rather than
                    Indiana v. Purdue control, the state would have accepted the offer of the existing
                    medical school.
            Indiana has always been a very conservative state and has regarded herself as a relatively poor
                    state, from the standpoint of taxable property. Only sixteen other states, before 1908, had made
                    similar provision for medical education, and there was no large public sentiment in Indiana favoring
                    such a radical movement. With the real issue thus clouded by the partisan struggle of the two
                    universities, medical education became a responsibility of the state, to be managed under the
                    administration of Indiana University.
            With the completion of this last step in the evolution of medical education in Indiana, a new epoch
                    was initiated, the final chapters of which remain to be written. It is worth our time, however, to
                    briefly recount the growth of the Indiana University School of Medicine, since its organization in
                    1908, as shown by the value of its plant and physical equipment. The figures graphically demonstrate
                    the generous response of philanthropic citizens of the state to the welfare of the indigent sick,
                    and to that greatest need of medical education—an abundance of clinical material for
                    teaching purposes.
            The figures are obtained from the Biennial Report of the trustees of Indiana
                    University for the fiscal years ending September 30, 1927 and September 30, 1928. The total value
                         of lands and physical plant of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     division of the University, which includes the Robert W. Long Hospital, the James
                    Whitcomb Riley Hospital, the William H. Coleman Hospital, the Ball Home for Nurses, and the Medical
                    School Building, is $3,465,113.81. This amount is only $23,259.13 less than
                    the value of the lands and physical plant of the University proper located at 
                        Bloomington
                    . If the value of the Dental School land and physical plant of $42,458.02 be
                    added to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     division, we have the unique situation of an excess in value of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     divisions of the University over the land and buildings at 
                        Bloomington
                    , amounting to $9,198.89.
            Thus the state, at the end of about twenty-two years of administration of medical education, finds
                    itself in the possession of property valued at $3,465,113.91, devoted to this purpose,
                    compared with $100,000, the estimated value of property which was given to the state in
                    connection with the merger of medical colleges and which represented the total valuation of property
                    devoted to medical education in Indiana in 1908.
            The significance of these figures lies in this indication of profound change in public opinion which
                    has taken place during the last twenty-five years toward the problems of medical education. Prior to
                    state control, not a cent had ever been contributed by philanthropic agencies for this purpose. Dr.
                    Theodore Potter of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in a paper on the status of medical education in Indiana, read a quarter of a century
                    ago before the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Literary Society, complained of the total ignorance and lack of sympathy on the part of
                    the public towards the problems of medical education. He mentioned the scandals associated with the
                    obtaining of proper dissecting material for teaching purposes and pointed out how the efforts to
                    secure such material nearly brought a number of prominent 
                        Indianapolis
                     physicians into conflict with the law, citing these things as examples of public
                    ignorance and lack of sympathy with medical institutions.
            Since the writing of this paper by Dr. Potter twenty-five years ago, in which he so clearly portrayed
                    the status of medical education in this state at that time, amazing changes have taken place. No
                    legal restrictions hamper medical institutions, and sectarian dissension no longer divides
                    professional opinion, but state and private funds are freely given, amply demonstrating public
                    sympathy for the aims of medical education.
            
            In the place of numerous medical schools, restricted by lack of funds and isolated from the
                    scholastic atmosphere and influence of university connections, Indiana now has one medical school,
                    whose record of accomplishment is and should be a matter of state pride. Whatever doubts may have
                    been enter, tained as to the ultimate success of a union of the medical educational interests of the
                    state with Indiana University, permitting the giving of premedical instruction at 
                        Bloomington
                     and clinical instruction at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , time has amply demonstrated to have been unfounded.
         
         
         
            The 
                        Terre Haute
                     Literary Club, 1881-1931
            BY LORIN C. HALBERSTADT
            
            William H. Wiley, former Superintendent of the 
                        Terre Haute City
                     Schools, names Sir Joshua Reynolds as the real founder of literary clubs and gives the
                    year 1764 as the first significant date. The club established at that time existed for a long period
                    without a name but "at Mr. Garrick's funeral it became distinguished by the title
                    of The Literary Club".1
                The present writer cannot
                    dwell upon the many clubs established since that time, his interest being in one of 
                        Terre Haute
                    's oldest clubs, possibly the state's first literary club. However
                    that may be, it was on January 3, 1881, that the articles of association for the 
                        Terre Haute
                     Literary Club were adopted.2
            
            Article IX of the original Articles of Association reads as follows:
                        
                     Two prepared exercises to be given by members previously appointed for such duty.
                     Criticism and conversations pertinent to the subject under discussion.
                     The report of the critic upon the general conduct of the meeting. Such critic to be
                                appointed by the president at each meeting3
                     
                  
                    
            
            Article X provides that 
                        The members shall be chosen to duty in rotation, or such other order as will be most
                            congenial and agreeable to the members. And the criticisms and conversations shall be opened
                            to all the members so nearly equal as may be, subject to the direction of the executive
                            committee.
                        At the beginning of each year the club shall appoint an Executive Committee, consisting of
                            three members to serve during the year, and whose duty it shall be to select subjects for
                            discussion, appoint members to duty, and otherwise to direct the work of the club, subject
                            to the approval thereof.
                    
            
            The present Articles of Association and By Laws of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     Literary Club show some changes.4 The method of dealing with
                    applications for membership is the same, but 
                  
                     1 Wm. H. Wiley, "The 
                                Terre Haute
                             Literary Club." This historical sketch of the Club was read before the
                            members on April 7, 1902. See also the 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Gazette, April 12. 1902.
                  
                     2 The first Articles of Association of the 
                                Terre Haute
                             Literary Club are in the mss. records of the Club.
                  
                     3 Records of the 
                                Terre Haute
                             Literary Club (mss.). I, 3 ff.
                  
                     4 Articles of Association and By Laws—Revised and Codified,
                            May 14, 1928.
               
                     there are new features such as provisions for an Honorary
                    Membership, a Permanent Historical Secretary, dues, meetings every Monday from October to May, a
                    regular program to consist of the reading of a single paper followed by general discussion led by
                    two appointed members, an Honor Roll, Visiting Members, and a statement of the duties of the
                    Secretary. However, fifty years have brought fewer changes than one would be led to expect.
            Judge Sidney B. Davis, in a paper read to the club on October 23, 1916, relates how Judge William
                    Mack came to him to say that he felt the need of a club. Its object should be to study literature,
                    arts, etc. He proposed a membership of nine. The club should be informal in organization and
                    governed by the instincts of gentlemen with literary tastes and culture. Judge Davis thinks that the
                    first meeting was held at the old Gilbert house on 
                        Ohio
                     Street. In the early period the committee on program was to assign subjects to the
                    members. Judge Mack thought that this method would accomplish better results as the papers would not
                    smack of the shop. Peculiar fitness of the member was also considered. This plan was followed for
                    several years.
            Judge Mack was, therefore, the real founder of the Term Haute Literary Club. He was long an active
                    member, reading many papers which were listened to with interest and profit. The Judge was a
                    splendid specimen of physical manhood, robust, vigorous, and capable of any exertion—a
                    man who loved exercise. He was a great lawyer and had a wide knowledge of men and books, which made
                    him a power in jury cases. As a judge of the Circuit Court he was recognized as a man actuated by
                    honest motives. He was at one time Speaker of the house in the Indiana Legislature.
            Among the papers prepared by him were: "Minerva"; "Ancient
                    Egyptians"; "Lord Byron"; "Classic Art":
                    "Count Cavour"; "Has American Slavery Been a Blessing or a
                    Curse"; and "Magna Charta". These papers are highly original in point of
                    view and in manner of treatment. They were, moreover, always intensely interesting, revealing the
                    Judge's unexcelled power of observation, his universality of interest and the great number
                    of subjects upon which he had information, Judge Mack's discussions before the club of the
                    papers of other members were lively and full of human nature and humor. Many  times he took the opposite side in a good natured way merely to point
                    out weak places in the argument of a fellow member. His purpose in founding the Club was truly
                    educational.
            The members of this Club who signed the Articles of Association on January 3, 1881, were: James
                    Ellis, Harry J. Baker, H. P. Townley, H. O. Breeden, William Mack, Sidney B. Davis, George P. Brown,
                    W. H. Hall, C. R. Henderson, 
                        Spencer
                    
            
            F. Ball, John M. Rees, Elisha Havens, H. C. Nevitt, J. Richardson, G. W. Faris, William Statz, and D.
                    W. Henry.5
            
            The following became members of the Club very early: N. G. Buff, Richard Tennant, Thomas Parry, S. B.
                    Stimson, S. F. Dunham, C. F. McNutt, A. B. Carlton, John T. Scott, Horace B. Jones, C. C. Oakey, and
                    S. S. Pam, Supt. Wiley notes that though these names are not found among those signing the Articles
                    of Association, there is abundant evidence that the signatures of these men were secured at
                    irregular dates during the first two or three years of the existence of the Club.6
            
            Th limit of membership was originally fixed at twenty-five.7 In 1883 it was
                    changed to twenty, but later (1889) gave way to a maximum of forty. In 1892 the number was changed
                    to thirty-five which is the present limit.
            Attendance averaged 18.7 per night, with an average number of visitors of 1.5, during the earlier
                    years. Later we find the average for visitors had increased to 6.5.8 By 1902,
                    the Club had enrolled in all 148 members who had read five hundred nineteen papers on various
                    subjects. Invited guests had given fourteen papers or addresses. Mr. Wiley compiled a complete roll
                    of the membership of the club up to 1902.9 Today the club has had a total of
                    over 300 different members on its roll who have read over twelve hundred papers.
            The Club's meetings have been held in the President's Room at the State Normal
                    School, at the home of Mr. E. Havens, in the office of the Superintendent of Schools, in Judge
                    Mack's room at the Court House, and in the rooms of the Chamber of Commerce. At present,
                    the Club meets at the Chamber of Commerce as it has done for many years.
            The character of the membership from the very first until today exhibits plainly a great variety of
                    talent. Members have 
                  
                     5 Records of The 
                                Terre Haute
                             Literary Club, I, 5.
                  
                     6Wiley, "The 
                                Terre Haute
                             Literary Club" (1902), p. 22.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., p. 27.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., p. 29.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., p. 32.
               
                     always been engaged in many different kinds of activity.
                    Attendance which has varied with the subject under discussion or the appointed leader for the
                    evening, has been affected by many conditions. Here was opportunity to broaden the views of life.
                    Mr. Wiley quotes from The 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Evening Gazette in regard to discussions: "The 
                        Terre Haute
                     Literary Club dropped literature for the time on Monday night to talk about the
                    weather. The club by no means confines itself to literature having a habit of taking excursions into
                    realms of science; politics; sociology; religion; et cetera."10
            
            Some curious results have followed this practice. Mathematicians have sometimes written love stories,
                    lawyers have often presented narratives of travel and adventure, physicians and ministers have
                    frequently discoursed on affairs of state. Many have taken delight in treating some phase of art.
                    The minutes, at times, record that some good member called on for the discussion of a paper, did
                    with a good degree of hesitation announce that he "was delighted by the paper and enjoyed
                    it very much but that he knew little or nothing about the subject under discussion". It,
                    however, "usually ended in that said member had to be reminded by the President that his
                    time had expired."
            This Club has had no policy, has attempted to carry no elections, and has attracted very little in
                    the way of a following outside of its own membership. This is not saying that the Club has had no
                    influence. Mayors, state senators, congressmen, judges of the courts and other important public
                    officials have been encouraged to study and carry on research in numberless instances. The character
                    of the organization was indicated by Mr. Wiley when he spoke of it as" a great literary
                        stimulus".11
            
            The treatment received by members from colleagues in the sometimes miscellaneous and at other times
                    free-for-all debates, has ranged from gentle to severe. Usually, most members follow some logical
                    order and keep within the bounds of decorum. Occasionally, a member will feel disposed to take a new
                    turn upon the subject of discussion. Yet the Club in the earlier days and even today is remarkably
                    harmonious and deferential to the various prejudices of its different members.
            One of the odd customs of this Club is to retire from its 
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., p. 48.
               
                     regular place of meeting or ask the visitors to retire to
                    transact certain kinds of business. This usually pertains to election of new members. Visitors are
                    present at almost all meetings. Some are quite regular in attendance; others come to hear subjects
                    discussed in which they are especially interested. Yet they look on the odd custom of going into
                    closed sessions as only a pecularity of the club.
            On November, 12, 1888, the initial movement toward honorary membership was started. A committee was
                    appointed and later reported upon the desirability of such memberships. Article IV of the present
                    Articles of Association reads: 
                        An Honorary Membership shall be granted to any member who has read five or more papers, and
                            whose attendance is at least fifty per cent of the current year in which Honorary Membership
                            is sought, provided that copies of five of his papers have been filed with the Secretary for
                            binding. The Membership Committee shall pass on each case and make recommendations to the
                            dub.
                    
            
            The present honorary membership list contains the names of many of 
                        Terre Haute
                    's leading citizens past and present. The Honor Roll consists of all persons
                    dying while members of the Club who have read five or more papers and whose attendance has been
                    satisfactory.
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Literary Club received delegates from the 
                        Terre Haute
                     Literary Club as early as 1884.12 Three separate chapters of the
                    Woman's Reading Club, of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and of 
                        Greencastle
                    , exchanged delegates with the 
                        Terre Haute
                     Literary Club during the earlier years of its history. This practice lapsed as the
                    years rolled by. However, during the Golden Jubilee which was held in January, 1931, all clubs of 
                        Terre Haute
                     were guests of the Literary Club.
            The purposes of this Club are, and have been, the improvement of the members through the preparation
                    and reading of papers, in rotation, on local, state and general topics (literary, historical,
                    scientific and professional), followed by a general discussion of, with favorable and unfavorable
                    criticism on each occasion. The meetings have brought together, at regular intervals of time,
                    kindred spirits engaged in many widely divergent life-activities. In his 1916 summary of the
                    club's activities, Supt. Wiley pointed out that with nine hundred 
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., p. 46.
                  
                     12 Records of the 
                                Terre Haute
                             Literary Club, I. Minutes for the meeting of Feb. 4. 1884.
               
                     seventy-six papers which "averaged over four to the
                    entire membership", no less than forty-one members had proved to be slackers or
                    "very busy men" who managed to get into the organization and out again without
                    doing anything. Forty more read only one paper each. On the other hand, many read from ten to
                    thirty-five papers and were still keeping up the good work in 1916.13 The same
                    kind of report would hold for the period since.
            A discussion of the many and varied papers which have been read before the Club in fifty years would
                    require volumes. Many were the criticisms, suggestions, views, reviews and words of praise voiced by
                    members. During the early years, a critic, appointed for the purpose, had all the say on the merits
                    and demerits of the paper under consideration. For obvious reasons, this plan gave way to the plan
                    still in use of having two members appointed by the President to discuss the paper of the evening
                    more or less directly, after which something worth while is expected from each member present. These
                    discussions are often very informing and frequently full of sharp attack and clever repartee. The
                    Club has gone on record more than once "that there shall be no curtailment of discussion or
                    expression of opinion, upon any theme presented before the Club."14
            
            Many of the papers of this Club written before 1902 had by that time enjoyed the distinction of more
                    than ordinary publicity. The newspapers have vied with one another for years for the privilege of
                    printing papers read by members. Eight large books made up of type written copies of papers have
                    been filled and placed in the local Library during the last ten years of the Club's
                        existence.15
            
            These accummulated papers are not accompanied by outlines and it would require much time and labor to
                    learn the character and content of the more than three hundred fifty papers now accessible. Some are
                    long and some very short. There is one with the title, "An Apology", of less than
                    fifty words. Some of the longest papers ever written for the Club 
                  
                     13 Wiley, "The 
                                Terre Haute
                             Literary Club". This is a second paper on the Club which was read by
                            Supt. Wm. H. Wiley, on Oct. 6, 1919.
                  
                     14 Ibid., p. 24.
                  
                     15 Many of the papers read are not now in the possession of the
                            Literary Club for various reasons. During the earlier years the papers were not given to the
                            club. However at Mr. Wiley's death all of his private papers were turned over to
                            the Fairbanks Library. Some 40 or more powers were thus saved that were written during the
                            earlier period of the Club. In recent years, the practice of collecting Club papers and
                            binding them for the Fairbanks Library has developed.
               
                     were prepared by Hon. B. E. Rhodes, Col. Richard W. Thompson,
                    Judge William Mack, Dr. Walker Schell, and Max Ehrman. Many contributions are serious, others are
                    enlivened by wit and humor, while some are very dry. Supt. Wiley, in his paper of 1902, speaks of
                    Mr. Charles R. Peddle as a man of great research and original investigation; of Messrs. Henderson
                    and Breeden as intellectual giants; of Judge Mack as always wanting to improve society by making man
                    over; of Mr. Townley as practical and direct; of Spencer F. Ball as so polite that he always stopped
                    reading to seat all newcomers, as it made him nervous to see people standing in the doorway. One
                    time Mr. Ball announced that he had been waiting for weeks to get hold of Prof. Elwood W. Kemp.
                    "I wish he was here now", he was saying, just as that gentleman appeared. Then
                    came a battle royal. Supt. Wiley also records that once, when Prof. J. A. Wickersham was President,
                    a free-for-all debate occurred. After the ordeal was over, the harrassed chairman tried to say
                    something funny, but in his own language—"Some how or other I didn't
                    get the right twist on it". President Mitchell at one time proposed to abolish all titles
                    of members such as Prof., Supt., Rev., Dr., etc., in the meetings, but Dr. Schell, when called Mr.
                    Schell, was so suprised that though he managed to get to his feet, after some hesitation, declared
                    that he had "nothing to say tonight", and sat down.16
            
            In the compass of a brief paper, only some of the outstanding contributions of this Club can be
                    listed. Below are a few. No doubt some have been omitted that should be recorded. At least those
                    mentioned do show something of the nature of the work of the organization: 
                        
                     
                        1881
                        "A Method of Studying History", by C. R. Henderson.
                     
                     
                        
                        "Atomic Theory", by Eli F. Brown.
                     
                     
                        1882.
                        "The Idea of History", by C. R. Henderson.
                     
                     
                        1883
                        "Guelphs and Ghibellines". by Spencer F. Ball.
                     
                     
                        1884
                        "Iron Industry of the U. S. as Affected by the Tariff", by Chas.
                                    R. Peddle.
                     
                     
                        
                        "The Germ Theory of Disease", by James Richardson.
                     
                     
                        1885
                        "
                                        Spencer
                                    's Data on Ethics", by Pres. William W.
                                Parsons.
                     
                     
                        1886
                        "The Essentials of a Civil Service", by Prof. Howard
                                Sandison.
                     
                     
                        
                        "Thomas Carlyle", by Dr. Stanley Coulter.
                     
                     
                        1887
                        "The Brain and Its Function", by Dr. O. P. Jenkins.
                     
                  
                        
                     
                        16 "The 
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Literary Club", by Wm. H. Wiley, 1902, p. 53.
                  
                        
                        
                     
                        1888
                        "A Glance Into the Future of Our Western Empire", by C. A.
                                    Waldo.
                     
                     
                        
                        "Faith in Science", by Judge Sydney B. Davis.
                     
                     
                        1889
                        "The Irish Question", by Prof. Elwood W. Kemp.
                     
                     
                        1890
                        "Socialism—We are Drifting", by Judge William
                                Mack.
                     
                     
                        
                        "Literature of the Law," by B. E. Rhodes.
                     
                     
                        1891
                        "Theosophy", by Prof. J. A. Wickersham.
                     
                     
                        1892
                        "Psychical Phenomena", by Lyman P. Alden.
                     
                     
                        
                        "The Enlargement of Our Army and Navy Necessary", by Supt.
                                    William H. Wiley.
                     
                     
                        1893
                        "The Smoke Nuisance in 
                                        Terre Haute
                                    ", by H. P. Townley.
                     
                     
                        
                        "Socialism and Social Problems", by Prof. Arthur
                                Hathaway.
                     
                     
                        1894
                        "Compulsory Arbitration", by D. V. Miller.
                     
                     
                        
                        "Woman Suffrage", by Prof. Alpheus McTaggart.
                     
                     
                        1895
                        "Can the U. S. Single Handed, Safely Adopt the Free Coinage of
                                    Silver?", by E. F. Williams.
                     
                     
                        
                        "Mind and Memory", by Prof. Michael Seiler.
                     
                     
                        1896
                        "The Need of a Compulsory Education Law in Indiana", by Prof.
                                    Francis M. Stalker.
                     
                     
                        
                        "Two Views of God", by Prof. John B. Wisely.
                     
                     
                        1897 "Robert Burns", by Prof. Charles M. Curry.
                     
                     
                        
                        "Osteopathy", by H. P. Townley.
                     
                     
                        1898
                        "Competition, A Law of Life", by J. T. Scovell.
                     
                     
                        
                        "Some Objections to Imperialism or Colonial Expansion by the 
                                        United States
                                    ", by Spencer F. Ball.
                     
                     
                        1899
                        "The Pessimism of Schopenhauer", by Max Ehrman.
                     
                     
                        
                        "Yourself", by Stephen M. Reynolds.
                     
                     
                        1900
                        "The Citizen and His Ballot", by Prof. William A. McBeth.
                     
                     
                        
                        "The Rule of Thumb", by John B. Peddle.
                     
                     
                        1901
                        "Masterpieces of Sculpture", by Dr. Walker Schell.
                     
                     
                        1902
                        "Phillips Brooks—An Appreciation", by Jas. E.
                                    Starbuck.
                     
                     
                        1903
                        "We-uns and you-uns", by Joseph T. Scovell.
                     
                     
                        1904
                        "Cavour and United 
                                        Italy
                                    ", by Paul N. Bogart.
                     
                     
                        1905
                        "The Catharsis of the Novel", by Prof. Earl E.
                                Clippinger.
                     
                     
                        1906
                        "Leaves From a Diary", by Dr. John J. Schlicher.
                     
                     
                        1907
                        "Lord 
                                        Randolph
                                     Churchill", by Prof. Frank S. Bogardus.
                     
                     
                        1908
                        "Some Aspects of the Liquor Traffic", by Rabbi Emil W.
                                    Leipsiger.
                     
                     
                        1909
                        "Wireless", by Judge Sydney B. Davis.
                     
                     
                        1910
                        "Selma Lagerlof", by Dr. Louis J. Rettger.
                     
                     
                        1912
                        "Syndicalism", by Prof. Albert Faurot.
                     
                     
                        1913
                        "A Few Cases from My Diary", by Dr. Frank E. Wiedemann.
                     
                     
                        1914
                        "Panics and Politics", by Prof. William O. Lynch.
                     
                     
                        1915
                        "Taxation", by Prof. Chas. B. Bacon.
                     
                     
                        1916
                        "The Boy and The Club", by Benjamin Blumberg.17
                        
                     
                  
                    
            
            The above list gives an idea of the type of papers offered in this Club and also furnishes an
                    inspiring list of names. A 
                  
                     17 The titles and names in this list were selected from the annual
                            programs of the Club as printed for the years, 1881-1916.
               
                     study of papers submitted after the above date would reveal an
                    interesting list of new names and topics. Many of the papers of the past fifteen years are of high
                    quality, but space forbids giving a longer list. Supt. Wiley, in a summary of members, names:
                    sixty-five teachers (most of them from the faculties of the Indiana State Normal School and the Rose
                    Polytechnic Institute, with a few high school men); fifty-six ministers of the gospel; twenty
                    manufacturers; fourteen judges; nineteen lawyers; ten newspaper men; nine physicians; five authors;
                    three representatives in the Legislature; and nine unclassified.18 To the roll
                    since 1916 could be added many belonging to each group.
            According to the minutes of the meeting for November 20, 1923, the question of creating a Foundation
                    Fund was discussed.19 On December 11 of the same year a committee was created to
                    consider and report on the problem of establishing such a fund. A report was made by this committee
                    on December 18, a copy of which was ordered sent to each member. The committee reported that,
                    "in order to further the intellectual and cultural life of its members and in order to
                    become an active intellectual cultural force in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and Indiana, hereby, the club establishes the 
                        Terre Haute
                     Literary Fund Foundation."20 It was agreed that any person
                    should be privileged to contribute any sum whatever. The original capital in this fund
                    "shall never be spent," but "it shall be safely invested" and
                    the proceeds "used from time to time to advance the objects for which this fund is
                        established."21
            
            An administration committee consisting of three persons appointed by the president of the Club for
                    three years (one member's term expiring each year) has the duty, by and with the advice and
                    consent of the president of the Club, to invest carefully the said Fund and make a report at least
                    once a year. In case of the dissolution of the Club this Fund shall pass to the absolute ownership
                    of the trustees of the Emeline Fairbanks Memorial Library, which is the public library of 
                        Terre Haute
                    . The Articles of Incorporation of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     Literary Club Foundation were read to the club on April 23, 1924, and adopted. Many
                    interesting speakers have been brought to 
                  
                     18 Minutes of the 
                                Terre Haute
                             Literary Club for October, 1916.
                  
                     19 The 
                                Terre Haute
                             Literary Club", by Wm. H. Wiley, 1923, p. 8. A third and last
                            contribution by Supt. Wiley. with the same subject.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., p. 10.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., p. 11-12. This fund has more than $1,600 in it at
                            present.
               
                    
                    
                        Terre Haute
                     by means of the income from this Fund. The present practice is to close the year with a
                    banquet, the invited speaker being some outstanding man of the country.
            The club has passed its fiftieth milestone and is pushing on. Perhaps some unknown person will, in
                    time come along and write the history of this Club as it should be written. It seems fitting to
                    close with the query propounded by Supt. William H. Wiley, in 1902: "What shall be said of
                    us when we shall have attained the maturity and wisdom of one hundred and fifty years of eventful
                    life similar to that vouchsafed to the club founded by Sir Joshua Reynolds, Samuel Johnson, Edmund
                    Burke, and Oliver Goldsmith?"22
            
            
               
                  22 Wiley, "The 
                            Terre Haute
                         Literary Club" (1902). p. 59.
            
         
         
         
            Political Recollections1
            
            of M. W. PERSHING.
            I began my newspaper career as a daily reporter on a weekly newspaper, in 1868, and naturally, my
                    political experiences date from a very early period of my life. In 1869, I established a newspaper
                    in 
                        Kokomo
                    , and cast my first vote in the state election of 1870. Since that year I have voted at
                    fifteen presidential elections and thirty-one state elections. I have not failed to cast a vote at
                    every election, covering a period of more than sixty years. With the exception of my first two
                    votes, cast in 1870 and 1872, every vote I have ever cast has been in the same county, township,
                    town, ward and precinct [
                        Tipton
                    , Indiana]. I established a newspaper in 
                        Tipton
                     in 1876 which I continued until 1911. I was appointed postmaster in 1901, but I
                    continued with the publication of the newspaper for ten more years.
            Politics in 1870 were beginning to recover from the back wash of the civil war, and while the
                    Republican party was in power in Indiana, there was considerable political unrest throughout the
                    state. Not a very large vote was cast by either of the two great parties. However, the Republicans
                    elected their entire state ticket by reduced majorities. General Grant was President at the time and
                    there was a wide difference of political policy within the Republican party between the so-called
                    conservatives and the so-called liberals. Conrad Baker was Governor of Indiana at the time.
            The campaign of 1872 came on with a general mixup in the Republican party. The Democratic party was
                    most thoroughly demoralized. General Grant was re-nominated by the Republicans for President for
                    another term. However, there was a bitter opposition against him and the so-called liberals broke
                    loose, held a convention at 
                        Cincinnati
                     and nominated Horace Greeley, editor of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune, for President. They called the new party the Liberal Republican party.
                    The Democrats met in Convention, soon thereafter but they were all split up, broke up and finally
                    "busted" up, not nominating a national ticket at all. However, they did endorse
                    the candidacy of Horace Greeley, and this was gall and worm-wood 
                  
                     1 Read before the Century Club of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , May 5, 1981.
               
                     to thousands of old-line Democrats. The Democratic and Liberal
                    Republican slogan was "Anything to Beat Grant". At that time the state election
                    was held in October and the national election in November. In Indiana, the Republicans nominated
                    General Thomas M. Browne, for Governor, and the Democrats nominated Thomas A. Hendricks. Mr.
                    Hendricks was elected Governor by about 800 majority, the remainder of the ticket going Republican.
                    General Grant carried the state by about 40,000 majority in November.
            During the session of congress in 1875, the John Sherman Resumption act was passed, which started
                    another political ball to rolling. During the civil war, the government issued paper currency called
                    greenbacks. The law had a clause in it making a promise to pay in gold but did not say when.
                    Greenbacks circulated at a discount, sometimes running as low as sixty and seventy cents to the
                    dollar. All banks made their loans payable in gold, making it very expensive to borrowers in paying
                    the differences between the market value of a greenback dollar and a gold dollar. To remedy this
                    evil, the resumption act was passed but it was not to become operative until January 1,1879, four
                    years after the passage of the bill. In 1874 the Democrats made a campaign in Indiana, arguing in
                    favor of the poor man's dollar and taking advantage of a financial depression, much worse
                    than the one of recent date. Together with this they enhanced the impression made by the Liberal
                    Republicans that President Grant intended to declare himself King, return to a monarchical form of
                    government, and thus perpetually keep himself in office. The Democrats elected their state ticket
                    together with both branches of the Legislature, Thomas A. Hendricks being Governor at the time.
            In 1876 the Democrats got themselves together and were prepared to make a formidable ctmpaign. The
                    first Republican national convention I ever attended, was the one of that year, it being held at 
                        Cincinnati
                    . James G. Blaine was the leading candidate, but there was a bitter fight against him
                    and he was defeated for the nomination. It was in this convention that Robert G. Ingersoll
                    eloquently pictured Blaine as the "Plumed Knight," which title stuck to him to the
                    day of his death. In the turmoil and confusion of the convention, the lights went out, the bands
                    ceased to play and in the hurrah, balotting continued and when the count was made, it was announced
                         that Rutherford B. Hayes had received the nomination. The
                    Democrats nominated Samuel J. Tilden. The campaign was a bitter one, The "bloody
                    shirt," greenbacks, reconstruction of the southern states, militarism, and hard
                    times—these issues produced a hard fought campaign. Indiana gave a Democratic majority in
                    both the state and national elections. The Republicans first nominated Godlove S. Orth, for
                    Governor, but he, early in the campaign resigned his candidacy and General Ben Harrison was named by
                    the state central committee in his stead. The Democrats nominated James D., better known as
                    "Blue Jeans", Williams, who was elected together with the Democratic state ticket
                    and both branches of the Legislature. The national election was so close that it was not determined
                    who was elected President until the day before the inauguration. To settle the controversy, an
                    electoral commission was provided for by act of Congress. It was intended that the commission should
                    be composed of seven Democrats and seven Republicans, the fifteenth number it was expected would be
                    an independent. Justice David Davis was elected to the United State Senate and thus escaped the
                    responsibility. The Commission as finally made up included seven Democrats and eight Republicans. At
                    the last day and almost the last hour, the commission decided in favor of Rutherford B. Hayes, and
                    he became President by one electoral vote. Both the Democratic and Republican ptrties were
                    thoroughly exhausted, order was restored and peace reigned throughout the country. However,
                    discontented western leaders took advantage of political conditions and organized the Greenback
                    party. This party became quite strong in Indiana, having a number of newspapers in the state
                    supporting that party.
            By the campaign of 1878, the Greenbackers had become so strong that neither the Democrats or
                    Republicans could fathom what results would be. The Greenbackers had predicted that on January
                    1,1879, there would be absolute distress throughout the country and that crepe would hang from every
                    business man's door. The Democrats sympathized with the Greenbackers and helped them to
                    make a hard times campaign. The issue they made was that when the resumption act became operative,
                    January 1, 1879, the people would suffer as a result of the "crime of
                    '73," reference to which we sometimes hear to this day. Indiana went Democratic by
                    the combined  vote of the Greenbackers and Democrats. The Rev.
                    M. Delamater, a well known Greenbacker, was elected to Congress from the 
                        Indianapolis
                     district.
            On January 1, 1879, the Sherman resumption act became effective, however, no crepe was hanging from
                    the doors of business men, nor were there any evidences of unusual distress. In fact, the poor
                    man's dollar had the same purchasing power that the rich man's gold dollar had and
                    good crops that year restored confidence and the people began to make money and spend money.
            The 1880 campaign was a memorable one. The Democrats nominated General W. S. Hancock for President
                    and the Republicans nominated General James A. Garfield. The Greenback party still having an
                    influence in politics, nominated General James Weaver, for President, but he was soon lost sight of
                    and less than a million votes were cast for him in November, though the Greenback party was not yet
                    quite dead. They did elect some members to the lower branch of Congress, but no member of the 
                        United States
                     Senate. The Republicans had another desperate fight in their convention. There was a
                    strong disposition all over the union to nominate General U. S. Grant, for a third term, though one
                    term had intervened between his retirement from the Presidency and then. General Garfield placed in
                    nomination John Sherman and his nominating speech made a deep and lasting impression on the minds of
                    the delegates. Roscoe Conkling placed in nomination the name of General U. S. Grant. During many
                    ballots, the votes for General Grant were cast without a single change from start to finish, there
                    being 304 votes cast for him on the first ballot and that many votes cast on the last ballot. It
                    became evident that neither Grant or Sherman could be nominated and the convention turned toward a
                    "dark horse." A few scattering ballots were taken when the convention stampeded
                    toward General Garfield and he was nominated. The Democrats had a quiet and orderly convention. The
                    tariff question then began to loom up and the two great parties began to talk about something that
                    neither knew very much about, the Republicans advocating a protective tariff while the Democrats
                    advoctted a tariff for revenue only, however, neither party seemed to make much progress, until,
                    unfortunately, for 
                        Hancock
                    , Sir Sackville West, a councillor from Great 
                    Britain, who was sojourning at 
                        Los Angeles
                    , submitted to an interview on the political situation in America, in which he made the
                    statement that it was very desirable to Great Britain that the Republican party be defeated for it
                    would be to the great advantage of his country if the Democrats would win on the tariff question. If
                    there was a man in the 
                        United States
                     that did not read that interview in the newspapers or hear it in speech, he could
                    neither read nor hear. Garfield was elected President and Indiana went Republican. Albert G. Porter,
                    was elected Governor, carrying both branches of the Legislature with him.
            Three months after the inauguration of Garfield, he was assassinated, the result of a political feud
                    with Roscoe Conk-ling. The feud grew out of the recommendation of a candidate for revenue collector
                    at the port of 
                        New York
                    . The feud became so intense that it brought to 
                        Washington
                     an insane man who shot down the President and Chester A. Arthur became President.
                    Arthur made a good President. He was a candidate for the nomination for President in 1884 but was
                    ignored by his party.
            In 1882, Indiana, went Democratic, owing to the old split between the conservatives and liberals in
                    the Republican party. There seemed to be an indifference in the minds of the people and both parties
                    made an uphill campaign, however, the state and legislative tickets went to the Democratic party.
            The campaign of 1884 was one of the hardest fought, most bitter, most unscrupulous, nastiest and
                    dirtiest contests that I ever had anything to do with. It was a campaign of mud-slinging and
                    personal reflections made upon the characters of both the Presidential candidates. The Republicans
                    nominated James G. Blaine and the Democrats nominated Grover 
                        Cleveland
                    . Thomas Nast, cartoonist for Harpers' Weekly Magazine,
                    started the campaign against Blaine, and many of his cartoons were unanswerable. 
                        Cleveland
                     had been county sheriff at Buffalo, had hung a man for murder and was said to be the
                    father of an illegitimate child, Marie Halpin being the mother. Blaine was charged with being a
                    corruptionist and the charge was made that his marriage was performed by the common law of consent.
                    Everybody was glad when the campaign was over for they were sick and tired of the filth that was
                    published by both parties during the canvass. 
                        Cleveland
                     was elected,  but with a change of 600 votes in the
                    state of 
                        New York
                    , Blaine would have been elected President, 
                        Cleveland
                     having carried the state by about 1,100 votes. Indiana went Democratic, Isaac P. Gray
                    being elected Governor, the Legislature also being Democratic.
            In the 1885 session of the Legislature, Indiana was gerrymandered for legislative purposes and a Mr.
                    Jewett, of 
                        Evansville
                    , a member of the Legislature, made the statement that: "They now had a
                    Legislative Gerrymander that all hell could not beat." However, the unexpected happened in
                    the campaign of 1886. During the previous year, Mahlon D. Manson, Democratic-Lieutenant Governor and
                    President of the Senate, had resigned to accept a federal appointment. Both political parties
                    thought that the vacancy thus created, had to be filled by an election. In good faith, both parties
                    nominated candidates and both made campaigns, and at the election, the Republicans elected a
                    majority of their state ticket, together with their candidate for Lieutenant-Governor. The lower
                    house was Republican with a slight Democratic majority in the senate. Green Smith had been elected
                    President pro tem of the Senate, at a previous session, and after the election, it
                    was discovered that the vacancy was not to be filled by an election, but by the President pro tern of the Senate. After more than a week of the hottest political contest
                    ever held in Indiana, Green Smith was declared President of the Senate and both legislative bodies
                    organized for the transaction of business, though, there was the bitterest of feeling during the
                    entire session.
            The campaign of 1888 was a memorable one in Indiana. General Ben Harrison was nominated for President
                    by the Republicans and the Democrats again nominated Grover 
                        Cleveland
                    . The Republican young men of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , organized a marching club, for the purpose of receiving delegations from all parts of
                    the state and other states, who came to pay their respects to General Harrison. Out of the marching
                    club, grew the present day 
                        Columbia
                     Club. The Democrats controlled the lower house of Congress, and they passed what was
                    known as the Mill's tariff bill. If aimed to create a tariff for revenue only, which, the
                    Republicans charged was nothing less than a free trade measure. There was a Republican majority in
                    the Senate and they amended the Mill's bill by passing a protective  tariff bill. The joint-conference committee could not agree and no
                    tariff law was enacted at all. This turned the political tide and General Harrison was elected.
                    General Alvin P. Hovey was elected Governor, on the Republican ticket.
            In 1890, the McKinley tariff law was enacted, but it required an all summer session, congress not
                    adjourning until in October, too late for the Republicans to overcome the shock and Indiana went
                    Democratic. Greenbackism was dying out, but the Farmers Alliance had entered politics, complicating
                    the political situation very much. The Democrats were very friendly to the Farmers Alliance and in
                    many counties and districts in the state, they nominated joint tickets.
            Trouble again grew up in the Republican party and in 1892, and with the Farmers Alliance in the
                    field, Indiana went Democratic. Harrison and 
                        Cleveland
                     were again candidates for the Presidency, and early in the campaign it was a foregone
                    conclusion that Harrison would be defeated. 
                        Cleveland
                     was elected, the Democrats having a majority in both the House and Senate. Claude
                    Matthews was elected Governor of Indiana, carrying both branches of the Legislature with him. During
                    the Harrison administration, another troublesome question arose and congress was compelled to take
                    cognisance of the silver agitation. To head off the drift toward the free coinage of silver, the
                    Republicans enacted a law compelling the purchase by the government of 4,500,000 ounces of silver
                    bullion a month, at its market value. Of course the Silver Kings boosted the price of silver bullion
                    until it began to be a burden on the government, though it was stipulated in the law that when
                    silver bullion reached the price of $1.291/5, the government was out of the market. Very
                    soon after the inauguration of 
                        Cleveland
                    , it became necessary to get relief. An extra session of congress was called and all
                    silver legislation was repealed. This act on the part of 
                        Cleveland
                     offended the Silverites and 
                        Cleveland
                     found himself in disrepute in his own party and a solid phalanx against him among the
                    free silver advocates.
            The Indiana state campaign of 1894, was a strange political mixture, but, Indiana turned against 
                        Cleveland
                    , as it had done against Harrison, repudiated the Democratic party and the state went
                    heavily Republican. The Democrats elected but four members of the Legislature. In this campaign, the
                    Farmers Alliance merged into the Populist party, and it became 
                    quite formidable. In fact, the third party became nearly as strong as the Democratic party.
            Populism and Silverism were growing in strengts and in the campaign of 1896, the free coinage of
                    silver became the main issue. The Democrats and Populists advocated the same principle. It was the
                    intention of the Democrats to nominate "Silver" Dick Bland, of 
                        Missouri
                    , for President, but there were enough Goldbugs in the convention to almost create a
                    riot. While the subject of gold barons and silver advocates was being discussed, William Jennings
                    Bryan, "The Boy Orator of the Platte," made his famous speech favoring the free
                    coinage of silver, 16 to 1. Pandemonium broke loose, the Goldbugs were driven to the wall, and on
                    the other hand, "Silver" Dick Bland lost his chance. The convention saw a silver
                    lining to the cloud and it stampeded toward Bryan, who was nominated. The Republicans nominated
                    William McKinley, on a gold platform, and thus the issue was made. The Populist party held a
                    national convention and nominated William Jennings Bryan, for President. Thus the two parties had
                    the same candidate for President, but had two candidates for Vice-president. At that time, a
                    candidate's name could appear on two or more tickets and all the votes cast for him on the
                    two or more tickets could be counted as though cast on 'one ticket. While many leading
                    Republicans left their party and went with the Free Silverites, the Democrats were also, having
                    their troubles. The Gold Democrats bolted their ticket held a national convention of their own in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and nominated Palmer and Buckner. The organization was called the Gold Democratic
                    party and the members made a vigorous campaign. McKinley was elected. Indiana went Republican,
                    winning the state offices and a majority in the Legislature. The Democrats and Populists, each had a
                    state ticket, but a few weeks before the election they got together and consolidated, giving the
                    Populists half on the state ticket and the Democrats the other half, James A. Mount was elected
                    Governor.
            The state campaign of 1898 was a one sided affair, the Republicans carrying the state by a very large
                    majority. The Populist party had gone to pieces and was practically dead in Indiana.
            In the campaign in 1900, McKinley was again nominated by the Republicans and Bryan by the Democrats,
                    the Populists  having practically abandoned their party.
                    Theodore Roosevelt was nominated by the Republicans for Vice-President, and, while McKinley had lost
                    none of his popularity, it developed before the campaign had progressed very far, that Roosevelt was
                    the national hero, he having gained a reputation when a "rough rider" during the
                    Spanish-American war. There were more "rough riders" in Indiana that year than
                    ever before or since. The Goldbugs again flared up in the Democratic national convention, but it was
                    a foregone conclusion that William Jennings Bryan would be nominated. To appease the Gold Democrats,
                    Bryan consented to make "Imperialism" the paramount issue with the free coinage of
                    silver a secondary consideration. The contest was a walk-a-way for McKinley, he being elected by a
                    largely increased majority. Only a few months after his second inauguration, at a time when all the
                    world was at peace, with prosperity and happiness prevailing among all nations of the earth,
                    President McKinley journeyed to Buffalo to attend the Pan-American exposition. While he was in the
                    act of extending the glad hand to all the people, a man with a foreign name, shot him down.
                    Roosevelt became President and served the remainder of the McKinley term.
            Winfield T. Durbin was elected Governor of Indiana in 1900. In the state campaign of 1902, Indiana
                    gave its usual Republican majority, that party carrying both the state and legislative tickets.
                    There was no real issue between the two parties and the campaign was quiet and orderly. In 1904
                    there was another hip and hurrah campaign. The Republicans nominated Theodore Roosevelt. The
                    Democrats switched from Bryan and nominated Alton B. Parker. Although the "peerless
                    leader" was still an issue, he was only a receptive candidate. He consented to withdraw his
                    name provided he should be permitted to dictate the platform. It was a walk-a-way for the
                    Republicans, as the "rough rider" sentiment was too strong and could not be
                    overcome. Roosevelt was elected President, Charles W. Fairbanks was elected Vice-president and J.
                    Frank Hanly was elected Governor of Indiana.
            In 1906, the Republican strength began to slip and the Democrats were somewhat encouraged by the
                    gains they made. The state and legislative tickets of Indiana went Republican, but by reduced
                    majorities. In 1908, there was a determination to again nominate Theodore Roosevelt, but he refused
                    to be a  candidate and threw his political weight and influence
                    toward William H. Taft. After a stubborn contest, Taft received the nomination. The Democrats went
                    back to William Jennings Bryan and nominated him for the third time. However, he was defeated and
                    Taft was elected, but the Democrats made considerable gains in Indiana, defeating several Republican
                    candidates on the state ticket and a few candidates for Congress. They elected Thomas R. Marshall to
                    the governorship, defeating Jim Watson, by less than a thousand majority.
            The campaign of 1910 was an uphill affair for the Republicans in Indiana. An opposition to President
                    Taft had developed. It had the effect of dividing the Republicans and the state went Democratic
                    including the Legislature. Trouble had grown up between Taft and Roosevelt and the Progressive or
                    "Bull Moose" party came into existence. For some reason there was a deep seated
                    feud that became nation wide between Taft and Roosevelt. This feud became so strong that in 1912,
                    while Taft received the Republican nomination, the Roosevelt followers bolted and held later a
                    Progressive convention. Roosevelt was made the candidate of the Progressive party. Thus there were
                    really two Republican candidates in the field. The Democrats nominated Woodrow Wilson, who was
                    overwhelmingly elected by a plurality vote, however, had the combined vote of Taft and Roosevelt had
                    been cast for one or the other, Indiana would have gone Republican on both the state and national
                    tickets. Samuel M. Ralston was elected Governor and the Legislature was Democratic.
            In the state election of 1914, the Progressive party was still in existence and Indiana again went
                    Democratic, however, with a greatly reduced plurality. During this year, war broke out between 
                        Germany
                     and 
                        France
                    , which changed political and economic sentiment in all parts of the world. Many nations
                    became involved, but the 
                        United States
                     attempted to remain neutral and made every possible effort to avoid war. Finally 
                        Germany
                     became so aggressive that American rights upon the high seas were being threatened. It
                    became evident that our country would be compelled to enter the war for self preservation.
            In the campaign of 1916, the Democrats re-nominated Woodrow Wilson while the Republicans nominated
                    Charles E. Hughes. Wilson was elected. Indiana went Republican in both  state and federal elections. James P. Goodrich was elected Governor and
                    in each branch of the Legislature there was a Republican majority. Less than forty days after the
                    second inauguration of Woodrow Wilson, the 
                        United States
                     entered the war and, for a time, there were no political divisions between the two
                    parties, all joining together in the prosecution of the war.
            In the state election in 1918, the Republicans again carried Indiana by a largely increased majority.
                    Sentiment had turned against the Wilson administration on issues growing out of the conduct of the
                    war. Peace was declared within a very few days after the election returns had reached 
                        Germany
                    .
            In the campaign of 1920, there was a complete upset in all parts of the country. The League of
                    Nations was the paramount issue. Though the League of Nations was a child of Woodrow Wilson, the
                    American people repudiated both it and the President. The Democrats favored the League of Nations
                    and the Republicans opposed it, and the result was that the Democrats met with an overwhelming
                    defeat. James M. Cox was the Democratic candidate and Warren G. Harding was the Republican
                    candidate. In the meantime, an amendment to the federal constitution had been adopted, permitting
                    women to vote, completely changing all political calculations. Warren T. McCray was elected
                    Governor, both branches of the Legislature going Republican.
            In the campaigns of 1922, 1924,1926 and 1928, the Republicans continued to carry the state. In 1924
                    Calvin Coolidge was elected President and Ed. Jackson was elected Governor. In this campaign
                    LaFollette, was a candidate for President on some kind of an independent ticket. He received nearly
                    100,000 votes in Indiana. In 1928, Herbert Hoover was nominated for President by the Republicans and
                    A1 Smith by the Democrats. Herbert Hoover was elected by an overwhelming majority. Harry G. Leslie
                    was elected Governor. In 1930, there was almost a universal upset, nearly every state in the union,
                    going Democratic. The party carried Indiana and almost received a majority in both the 
                        United States
                     Senate and the House of Representatives, all of which is of such recent date that it is
                    familiar to all present day voters.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            BY CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            In line with the tentative understanding between the State Library and the William Henry Smith
                    Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society, whose quarters will be in the new Library and
                    Historical Building, the Smith Library is acquiring material of value which is so rare and so high
                    priced as to be beyond ordinary library usage. In November the Library acquired from Amos W. Butler
                    a copy of the exceedingly rare first edition of the Journalof Travels over the Rocky
                        Mountains, to the Mouth of the Columbia River; Made during the years 1845
                        and 1846, by Joel Palmer, printed in 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 18N. The State Library has copies of subsequent editions, but so far as is known,
                    there is no other copy of the first edition in the state. Joel Palmer lived near 
                        Brookville
                     and started his journey from that vicinity. His narrative is of unusual interest and
                    early editions have long been a much sought for item of western travel.
            The competition for the selection of an architect for the State Library and Historical Building
                    resulted in the selection of Pierre and Wright, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , whose design with modifications will be used for the building. The competition under
                    the direction of Arthur Bohn, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , architectural adviser of the commission, created by the 1929 General Assembly, closed
                    October 5. The jury consisted of Egerton Swartwout and Raymond M. Hood, architects of 
                        New York City
                    , and Milton J. Ferguson, librarian, 
                  Brooklyn, New York
               . Six prize
                    awards were made to Indiana architects as follows: Pierre and Wright, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , first award, two thousand dollars; Walter Scholer, 
                        Lafayette
                    , second award, fifteen hundred dollars; Joe H. Wildermuth, Gary, third award, one
                    thousand dollars; Harrison & Turnock, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , fourth award, five hundred dollars; Lee Burns & Edward James, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , fifth award, five hundred dollars; McGuire & Shook, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , sixth award, five hundred dollars; Mr. Paul Cret, of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , was given second place, but received no award.
            The Library and Historical Building is to be erected at the southwest corner of Senate and 
                        Ohio
                     Streets and will occupy  most of the quarter block
                    which has been acquired by the state for this purpose. This is immediately west of the north end of
                    the state house grounds. The William Henry Smith Memorial library, according to present plans, is to
                    be located on the second floor of the building.
            The Conference of Historical Societies of the 
                        United States
                    , held annually in connection with the meeting of the American Historical Association,
                    will be held this year at the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society Building, 
                        St. Paul
                    , Wednesday morning, December 30. The Conference is devoted to a discussion of the
                    publication of source material by historical societies, especially of the possibilities of
                    coordinating and making more systematic the publication of such material. The Conference serves a
                    useful purpose in bringing those interested in historical societies together to discuss common
                    problems, but it should extend its activities.
            It has been five years since a Handbook of Historical Societies was published. The Handbook of 1926
                    was confessedly very incomplete and since it was published a great many changes have taken place. A
                    new Handbook should certainly be published. It would be a great convenience to students of history
                    and to many others.
            The Conference, also, might well publish an annual report on the activities of historical societies.
                    It seems evident that, considering the number and the resources of such organizations, their
                    accomplishments fall far short of their possibilities. Could not many of them employ trained
                    historical workers, persons who have taken the doctor of philosophy degree, in systematic
                    investigation and publication? Almost the only field open to such persons now is teaching. Many of
                    them are neither qualified for, nor interested in, teaching. Probably those who would do the best
                    research work and publication belong to this class. Why could not historical societies open a field
                    for them?
         
         
         
            Documents
            The "Chronicles of the West", reprinted below, appeared in the Indiana
                        Democrat of July 25, 1840, while the colorful presidential campaign of that year was
                    gathering momentum. Noah Noble, an outstanding man of the period, was elected governor of Indiana in
                    1831 as a "no-party" candidate, and re-elected in 1934. Under the constitution of
                    1816, the governor's term was three years, with the right to serve a second consecutive
                    term, While Noble was governor of the state, the demand for the construction of a system of internal
                    improvements became intense. In 1836, the Legislature provided for an extensive system of public
                    works, the Governor being a strong supporter of the policy. The measure of 1836, which became known
                    as the "Mammoth Bill", played an important part in state politics for several
                    years.
            It was well known that it was not possible to raise money by taxation to construct the roads, the
                    canals, and the one railroad included in the great scheme, but there was believed to be a sure and
                    safe method of obtaining the necessary funds—bonds of the state could be sold to eastern
                    and foreign capitalists. Income from the completed public works, in the form of tolls, would take
                    care of interest payments and retire the bonds in a few years. Had not 
                        New York
                     already demonstrated the wonderful possibilities of this method of financing the
                    construction of a great public work? A number of states were following in the footsteps of the
                    Empire State, and Indiana was swept along by the current. The mighty business boom of the thirties
                    reached a climax in 1836. The great collapse came in the spring of 1837.
            It was indeed hard for the people of Indiana to relinquish the dream of greater and greater
                    prosperity which was to come as a result of the completion of the system of public works. Many were
                    determined to carry out the policy of building all of the improvements at the same time, regardless
                    of the panic. The state election of 1837 turned on this issue, which divided both parties. The Whigs
                    put forward David Wallace for governor. A Democratic candidate, Judge Gamaliel Taylor, withdrew from
                    the race, after John Dumont, a Whig, entered the field against Wallace. Dumont was a
                    "modificationist"—  that is, he
                    urged the classification of the public works, his contention being that the
                    construction of the general system of improvements should be abandoned and that one or two important
                    works should be completed, after which it would be time to take up the gradual construction of
                    others.
            In the important contest of 1837, Wallace carried practically all of the counties in the state
                    through which a public work—a canal or a road or the railroad—was to be built,
                    while Dumont carried nearly every county through which none of the projected lines of transportation
                    was to pass. Several counties that went Democratic in both 1836 and in 1840 gave Wallace majorities
                    in 1837, while certain other counties that gave Whig majorities in 1836 and 1840 were carried by
                    Dumont. The ardent friends of the internal improvement policy won the election and Wallace became
                    governor.
            The impossibility of selling bonds, after 1838, and the serious financial problems that confronted
                    the state government changed Wallace into a "modificationist", while in office.
                    More and more, Democrats tried to make political capital out of the predicament of the state
                    government. After vast sums had been borrowed and spent, work had to be abandoned on the canals and
                    roads, which were in all stages of construction, with none finished. Interest on the colossal debt
                    could not be paid, and it was becoming impossible to raise enough through taxation to keep up with
                    the ordinary running expenses of the state government. Such was the situation in the summer of 1840
                    when the editor of the Indiana Democrat perpetrated the following in an attempt to
                    influence voters in the state election which was to occur early in August.
            
                    CHRONICLES
                        OF
                        THE WEST
               
                    1. Now there arose in one of the provinces of the west a certain man, whose name was Noah.1
               
                    4. Now this Noah sought to be chief ruler of the people of the province wherein he dwelt, and he
                        offered very pleasant things unto them, and thus bewitched much people, and in an evil hour many
                        hearkened unto his voice.
                    7. So Noah prevailed… and some cried out "Great is Noah", for he
                        seemed to please the people, therefore the people made him chief ruler in their western
                            province.2
               
                    
                  
                     1 Noah Noble, governor of Indiana from 1831 to 1837.
                  
                     2 Indiana.
               
                    
                    8. Now when Noah became ruler he… said—
                    9. Within himself I will go to and. I will even try to cause the water to flow throughout the
                        whole land in canals… and the people will pay for them and will say, "Behold
                        what great and mighty works this man hath accomplished".
                    10. Then shall they send me to the great council of the nations3 with Daniel,
                        Surnamed the Godlike, and with other mighty men not a few.
                    11. So Noah sent messengers unto a far country beyond the seas, where they borrowed much
                            money,4 and Noah brought the money unto the people and said unto them,
                        "Go ye, and dig rivers throughout the land, and I will make you a mightty
                        nation".
                    13. And it came to pass, when the time had come when according to the law of the land, Noah could
                        reign no longer, that many people gathered together and said one to another, "Behold
                        the manner in which this Noah is reigning over us if matters go on in this way, lo, heavy
                        burdens will be brought upon us and upon our sons, even unto many generations".
                    14. So these men called upon John a wise and prudent man, who dwelt in the South5; him they wished to reign over them instead of Noah.
                    15. But others cried out "Great is Noah! We care not for taxes and ttribute! for we can
                        put high prices on our merchandise and on our rents, and then the husbandmen will pay us the
                        more, so that our tribute will cost us nothing, Therefore will we choose David,6 who will walk in the footsteps of Noah".
                    16. So David stood upon a stall in the market place, and he cried aloud unto the people, saying
                    17. "Make me ruler over the people, and not the people only, but likewise over your hens
                        and your chickens, and I will cause your hens to lay eggs so as to pay all of your
                            tribute".7
               
                    18. And this saying mightily pleased the merchants. Albeit they knew the saying was not true; but
                        they said, "Many will be deceived thereby, and therefore will we proclaim that David
                        shall be ruler".
                    19. The people, therefore, made David ruler over themselves, their wives, their little ones,
                        their hens and their chickens.
                    20. Now it came to pass that, after a while, David walked not in all the evil ways of
                        Noah….
                    21. And he lifted up his voice in the midst of the great council of the western province, and
                        said
                    22. "Men and brethren, behold ye are burdened with grievous taxes and heavy to be borne,
                        and the burden is brought upon you, by harkening to the voice of Noah, even by attempting to dig
                        the water courses which he recommended you to dig, saying
                    
                  
                     3 Senate of the 
                                United States
                            .
                  
                     4 Bonds were sold extensively to foreign as well as to eastern
                            capitalists.
                  
                     5 John Dumont, a Whig who ran against the regular Whig candidate in
                            1837.
                  
                     6 David Wallace, the regular Whig candidate in 1857. Wallace was
                            elected, receiving many Democratic votes and losing many Whig votes to Dumont.
                  
                     7 In one of his speeches, Wallace had explained how any farmer could
                            pay his share of the taxes levied because of the construction of the internal improvement
                            system, by keeping an extra hen and selling the eggs.
               
                    
                    23. "‘Go ye and dig rivers throughout the land and I will make you a mighty
                        nation.’
                    24. "NOW, therefore, harken to my voice, for why will ye continue to dig patchwork
                        trenches which can hold no water?
                    25. "Lo, the rivers which Noah advised you to dig, saying, ‘go ye and dig
                        them’, are good, and will bring much profit to the nation when they be digged, if,
                        per adventure, they should ever be finished.
                    26. "But by striving to dig them all at once, ye do bring a burden upon the land which
                        neither you nor your posterity shall be able to bear.
                    27. "Harken ye therefore unto my voice and attend unto the counsel which I shall offer
                        you.
                    28. "So shall ye complete water courses throughout the whole land, and the land shall
                        prosper.
                    29. "Go ye, choose out of the works which ye have begun those which will be most useful
                        and which will yield a profit the soonest.
                    30. "And when they shall be completed, lo ye shall receive money from them with which ye
                        shall be enabled to proceed with the others.
                    31. "So shall it be to you in time, as it was said unto you by Noah, and ye shall be a
                        great nation".
                    32. But this saying pleased not the merchants, and they cried out, with one accord,
                        "Away with such a man, and let us have a Bigger8 man to reign in
                        his stead".
                    33. And they called Samuel, surnamed the Bigger, and set him in the midst, and cried out,
                        "Lo, here is a great man and wise, he has often times read the History of (the Fourteen
                        Kings; let him reign instead of David".
                    34. David was therefore cast aside, and those who aforetime did homage to him, even the merchants
                        and the money changers, called him a wine bibber, a publican, and a sinner, for they dared not
                        tell the people the true reason why they wished to slay him.
                    35. Then the merchants got up in honor of Samuel a great multitude of horsemen, and footmen, and
                        canoes and much hard cider, and many mules, and asses, and made withal a great procession.9
               
                    36. Now the braying of the asses was loud, even like unto the noise of many waters, and the sound
                        of their voices remaineth even unto this day.
                    37. But the people said Nay but we will send to the great council of the
                        nations and bring thence the man whom our souls love, even Tilghman who is also called Howard;
                        for he is a just and a perfect man and abhorreth to burden the people.10
               
                    38. And the people cried out "Great is our Howard, he shall reign over us."
                    39. For the people were grievously oppressed with burdens. Their rulers had wasted their
                        substance in buying frog ponds, soap factories, water lots, alligators and a hundred forty and
                        four thousand bushels of tadpoles in the swamps of the far south.
                    
                  
                     8 Samuel Bigger, Whig candidate for governor in 1840.
                  
                     9 The spectacular campaign of 1840 was already well under way when the
                            "Chronicles of the West" appeared in the Indiana
                            Democrat of July 25, 1840.
                  
                     10 Tilghman A. Howard, of 
                                Rockville
                            , Indiana, Democratic member of Congress from the seventh congressional
                            district, made the race for governor against Samuel Bigger in 1840.
               
                    
                    40. And furthermore, a few men made their living by crying out "Great and glorious is
                        the system, for by it we get much money, and we have nothing to do but to ride up and down the
                        canals, and the people pay for our candles, our letters, our onions, our corn, and our wine, and
                        our oil, not a little."
                    41. Now the rest of the acts of the people, and what they did with Samuel, who was the choice of
                        the merchants, and with their Howard, shall be written in the "Chronicles of the Ruler
                        of the West."11
               
                
         
         
            A PHILOMATHEAN INVITATION TO GEORGE W. JULIAN
            In the period before the Civil War, and for some years after, college literary societies were
                    outstanding organizations. The students who formed these groups were closely knit together. Their
                    activities were of great importance in the college life of the time, giving an outlet for some of
                    the energy that in later periods has been bestowed on athletics. The literary organizations also
                    served many of the purposes of fraternities. They were intended primarily as centers for the
                    cultivation of alertness in thought and oral expression, promoting as they always did readiness in
                    speech-making, skill in argument, and habits of searching for useful information. Debating contests
                    between members of the same society were frequent, and other contests of the kind between rival
                    societies were often overshadowing affairs in the list of campus events for each year.
            The two historic literary societies of Indiana University in the ante-bellum period were the
                    Philomathean and Athenian.1 The following letter resulted from the decision of
                    the Philomatheans to gain prestige and honor by making George W. Julian a member of their society.
                    Julian was already a noted Free Soiler, and was serving a district of eastern Indiana in the lower
                    house of Congress. The session of 1849-1860 was his first. It was indeed a memorable
                    session—the one which carried through the great compromise measures of that fateful year.
            [The Letter to Julian]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To the Hon. George W. Julian
                        Sir
                        We have been appointed a committee in behalf of the Philomathean 
                              
                                 11 Howard was defeated by Bigger, and there was no
                                            occasion for the writting of the "Chronicles of the Ruler of the
                                            West."
                              
                                 1 See "Memories of Indiana University,
                                            1846-1847", by Dr. James A. Cooper, ex-'49. in Indiana University Alumni Quarterly (October, 1917). IV,
                                            626-652. Dr. Cooper was a member of the Athenian Society. He had no middle
                                            name, but adopted as his middle initial the letter n from the last work in
                                            the quoted line.
                           
                                     Society of Indiana University to inform you of
                                    your election as an honorary member of this Association.
                        The Society which we represent is founded upon the basis of mutual improvement and
                                    friendship, having for its object in common with other Associations literary, the
                                    promotion of virtue and the cultivation of the intellect.
                        "Doctrina Vim Promovet Isitam" [insitam] is the motto of our
                                        Association;2 and by acting in accordance with this
                                    principle it is our aim, while preparing for the actual business of life, to merit
                                    the favor of the great, the good, the wise, and the influential.
                        Aware of your acquaintance with similar Associations, we deem it unnecessary to
                                    communicate the many advantages of which they are productive in connection with
                                    institutions of learning.
                        Accept the best wishes of the Society which we have the honor to represent and of
                                    ourselves individually for your future happiness and success as an eminent
                                    politician and a friend to literary institutions.
                        
                                    Very Respectfully yours
                                    David Chambers
                                    James Mitchell
                                    Hamilton S. McRae
                                    Committee 
                                            Bloomington
                                         March 20th 1850.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  2 "Learning develops inward strength." The motto is
                        taken from one of the odes of Horace. The member of the committee who penned the letter seems to
                        have omitted the letter n in the last word of the quoted line.
            
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               The Populist Revolt: A History of the Farmers' Alliance and the
                        People's Party. By John D. Hicks. The University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 
                        Minneapolis
                    , 1931. Pp. xiv + 473, illustrated.
            Agrarianism like the poor we have had with us always, yet probably no phenomenon in our history has
                    been so little understood. From Nathaniel Bacon to George W. Norris, agrarian leaders have been
                    reviled and cursed. Only recently an eastern Senator high in the ranks of his party referred to a
                    group of western leaders as "sons of wild jackasses," and the opposition, back in
                    the nineties, of an eastern editor to the admission of any more western states "until 
                        Kansas
                     is civilized" will be readily recalled. In a paper read before the American
                    Historical Association in 1896—a year made memorable by the bitterest and most stubbornly
                    contested battle in our party history between the forces of industrialism on the one hand and
                    agrarianism on the other—Professor Frederick J. Turner declared: "The
                    West… needs to be understood." From that time until the present, an ever
                    increasing number of searchers after truth have interested themselves in the West and South. So
                    great has been their success that it can be confidently predicted that, within another generation,
                    no worse an object than a certain long-eared hybrid, respectable at least on its mother's
                    side, will be used by easterners in making invidious comparisons.
            In the scholarly volume of Professor Hicks, those much maligned citizens, the Populists, have been
                    given a sympathetic but judicial hearing, and if they have not been acquitted of advocating much
                    that was impractical and impossible of attainment, they have at least been adjudged not guilty of
                    asininity, and, as the author has so well pointed out in his final chapter, many of the things they
                    advocated have become a part of current practice and are accepted as a matter of course.
            The volume under review seems to fall logically into four divisions. The first three chapters are
                    introductory in character. The first and second describe the background in the West and South
                    respectively, while the third consists of an  exposition of the
                    grievances of these sections. The next four chapters are devoted to the attempts of western and
                    southern farmers to solve their problems without resort to separate political organization, by
                    applying pressure to one or the other of the two old parties. Here the author quite rightly stresses
                    the organization and activity of the Farmers' Alliance whose efforts culminated in the
                    endeavor to secure the passage of the subtreasury bill. The next seven chapters (VIII-XI) deal with
                    the birth of the Populist party, its espousal of the silver issue, the elections of 1892 and 1894,
                    fusion with the Democratic party, and the final disappearance of the People's party in the
                    first decade of the twentieth century. The final chapter is reserved for an enumeration and
                    appraisal of Populist contributions to our national thought and practice. In addition, the volume
                    contains six appendices of valuable documents, eighteen pages of classified bibliographical
                    material, and an adequate index. Pictures of thirteen Populist leaders, six cartoons, two election
                    maps, and a graph showing the appreciation of the dollar from 1865 to 1895 add to the value of the
                    work.
            Professor Hicks's task has been to synthesize the vast amount of material at his disposal.
                    His work has been lightened by the appearance in recent years of several excellent monographs
                    dealing with various phases of the subject, several of which the author himself contributed. In the
                    opinion of the reviewer, the author has produced an excellent piece of historical writing. It seems,
                    however, that in the matter of organization and interpretation the possibilities of the subject have
                    not been exhausted. Near the close of Chapter VIII (p. 237), the author says: 
                        Whatever else may be said of it, the People's party was born a party of principle
                            and those who brought it forth were in deadly earnest. Nor did they lack a genuine
                            grievance. Whether they knew it or not, the delegates [to the Populist Convention of 18921
                            were beginning the last phase of a long and perhaps losing struggle—the struggle
                            to save agricultural America from the devouring jaws of industrial America.
                    
            
            The truth of this view is not questioned, but would it not have been better to have developed this
                    thought in bold outline in an introductory chapter? If it is a championship bout and a fight to the
                    finish that the reader is to witness, he is surely entitled to know this and to be informed of the
                    relative size  and strength of the contestants at the beginning
                    of the conflict.
            A proper appraisal of the Populist party's advocacy of free silver depends on the adequacy
                    of the quantity theory of money as an explanation of the appreciation of the dollar following the
                    civil war. Professor Hicks is not disposed to argue the question and contents himself with saying:
                        
                        But the purchasing power of the dollar bill still continued its upward course. For this
                            phenomenon the quantity theory may be—probably is—an insufficient
                            explanation, but in the face of the figures from which the accompanying chart has been
                            drawn, the fact of continuous appreciation can hardly be denied.
                    
            
            The doctrine of free silver was beset with grave difficulties, but, in the opinion of the reviewer,
                    the invalidity of the quantity theory or its inability to explain the downward trend of prices was
                    not one of them. The chart to which Professor Hicks refers (p. 88) indicates that in the period from
                    1865 to 1895 the dollar appreciated 200 per cent. Between the passage of the Bland-Allison Act and
                    the repeal of the Sherman Silver Purchase Act, a period just one half as long, the appreciation was
                    approximately 15 per cent. The graph farther indicates a sharp upward trend of prices in 1878 and an
                    equally sharp decline of prices in 1893. If the passage and repeal of the Silver Acts did not cause
                    these trends, it was a remarkable series of coincidents and to the debtor farmer, as Professor Hicks
                    points out, this was no theoretical matter.
            J. HARLEY NICHOLS
            
         
         
            
               American Neutrality in. 1793: A Study in Cabinet Government (
                        Columbia
                     University Studies in History, Economics and Public Law, No. 350). By Charles 
                        Marion
                     Thomas. 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 
                        New York
                    , 1931. Pp. 249, $4.50.
            This study is concerned with the formulation and the application of the American policy of neutrality
                    during the year 1793, when 
                        France
                     was at war with 
                        Austria
                    , Prussia, Sardinia, Great Britain, and the United Netherlands. The author's
                    first object, as he states in the preface, was to discover the contributions of Thomas Jefferson
                    (Secretary of State in 1793) to the American policy of neutrality, but his search for such
                    contributions developed into a study of cabinet government, that  is, the influence of Cabinet deliberations upon the course of governmental policy during this
                    troublous year. 
                        France
                     had recently (in 1792) repudiated the monarchy and become a republic, and in 1793 was
                    at war with Great Britain and other European powers. There was in this country much sentiment
                    favoring 
                        France
                    , and Jefferson was strongly pro-French in his sympathies. Alexander 
                        Hamilton
                    , Secretary of the Treasury, leaned in sympathy toward 
                        England
                     rather than toward 
                        France
                    , but both Jefferson and 
                        Hamilton
                    , as well as the other members of President Washington's Cabinet, were
                    thoroughly convinced that the 
                        United States
                     must avoid war as long as possible, whatever the cost. They differed only in their
                    views as to the best way of doing this. The result of this variety of opinions, and their frequent
                    expression in Cabinet meetings, led to numerous compromises and produced a neutral course
                    "more nearly in the middle of the way, more impartial, than that which any individual could
                    have found."
            The topics discussed in the six chapters of the volume are: the Proclamation of Neutrality; the
                    Preliminary Questions and the Arrival of Genet; the Limit of American Territory; the Prohibition of
                    the Fitting Out of Armed Vessels in the Ports of the 
                        United States
                    ; the Prohibition of Foreign Recruiting and the Usurpation of Consular Jurisdiction; the
                    Effect of Genet's Mission on American Neutrality—Neutral Duties and Neutral
                    Rights.
            The study reveals clearly how Genet, the French Minister to the 
                        United States
                    , by his varied and continued activities, jeopardizing our status as a neutral power
                    (such as giving orders for the fitting out of French privateers in American ports, and sanctioning
                    their use of our ports as bases of operation) alienated public opinion in this country and finally
                    caused even Jefferson to approve a request for Genet's recall by the French government.
            The author has evidently made a careful study and evaluation of documentary materials and makes
                    frequent references to them. The reader is thorougly convinced of the importance of Cabinet
                    deliberations at this time when our federal Constitution was very new and when the government based
                    upon it had been functioning for only four years. Of special importance was the work of Jefferson,
                    which is characterized by the author as "indispensable in the formulation of a policy so
                    truly impartial as that laid down by the 
                        United States
                     in  1793". The work of 
                        Hamilton
                    , while not quite so important, in the author's words, was "almost
                    indispensable". 
                        Washington
                    's mind, unaided, could not have conceived the correct solution to all the
                    problems that arose during this eventful year, but from the opinions of members of his Cabinet, and
                    particularly from those of Jefferson and 
                        Hamilton
                    , he was enabled to choose "that which was most truly in accord with his
                    neutral policies".
            ERNEST M. LINTON
            
         
         
            The Lewis Publishing Company of 
                        Chicago
                     has very recently brought out a History of Indiana accompanied by a
                    great number of biographical sketches. The first two volumes of the five-volume set constitute a
                    comprehensive history of the state, written by Charles Roll, associate professor of history in the
                    Indiana State Teachers College at 
                        Terre Haute
                    . The author has produced an excellent work, well-organized and well-interpreted.
                    Professor Roll's two volumes represent painstaking research and the style is very good.
            The last three volumes of the work are devoted entirely to short biographical sketches, which were
                    written by a special staff of men employed by the Lewis Publishing Company and not by Professor
                    Roll. These sketches are as good, perhaps, as any reader has a right to expect considering all the
                    conditions involved in their preparation. The two volumes devoted to the history of Indiana will be
                    reviewed in our March issue.
            The January number of a new quarterly, the 
                  
                            North Carolina
                         Historical and Genealogical Record, has been issued in ad-vance. The initial
                    number of this magazine, of which Clarence Griffin is the editor and which is published at Forest
                    City, 
                        North Carolina
                    , includes twelve short contributed articles, some queries, and an editorial department.
                    The Editor states that the Record "will be devoted to the publication of
                    local history articles pertaining to all of the 
                        North Carolina
                     counties, unpublished letters and manuscripts, genealogical material and biographical
                    sketches." The new magazine is not to comPete with but to supplement the existing
                    historical publications of 
                        North Carolina
                    , there being, according to Mr. Griffin, "no other publication in the state
                    which caters solely to the publication of material relating to the lesser historical events and
                    points within its borders." The subscription price is $1.00 per  year and exchanges are desired. The Indiana Magazine of
                        History welcomes the 
                  
                            North Carolina
                         Historical and Genealogical Record. May it live long, and render useful
                    service to the cause of local history!
            We are indebted to Mrs. Benjamin D. Walcott, Vice Regent for Indiana of the 
                        Mount Vernon
                     Ladies' Association of the Union, for the current Annual
                    Report of that most useful organization. The Superintendent of the Association reports that by
                    the will of the late Mrs. Hugh McLandon of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 157 acres of 
                        Washington
                    's 
                        Mount Vernon
                     estate were recently added to the land already in the possession of the 
                        Mount Vernon
                     Ladies' Association. In 1856 the Association purchased 202 acres which was
                    increased by 59 acres between that year and 1930. The bequest of Mrs. McLandon brings the total up
                    to 418 acres.
            Since General 
                        Washington
                     was born in 1732, the year 1932 will be one of unusual activity for members of the 
                        Mount Vernon
                     Ladies' Association. There are few American citizens who are not interested in 
                        Washington
                     and his services to his country. The coming year should do much to increase the respect
                    in which the planter of 
                        Mount Vernon
                     is held by the people of the 
                        United States
                     for whom he performed so well.
            
               
                        Goshen
                     College is to be commended for its interest in Mennonite history. The College publishes
                    the Mennonite Quarterly Review, an excellent historical magazine. The Mennonite
                    Historical Society of the College is an active organization, one of its enterprises being the
                    collection of the sources of Mennonite history in the 
                        United States
                    . Bishop John F. Funk died at 
                        Elkhart
                    , Indiana, in May, 1930, at the age of ninety-four. The correspondence and rceords of
                    the former Mennonite Publishing Company of 
                        Elkhart
                     and also the private correspondence and other manuscripts of Bishop Funk fell to his
                    heirs. From the Funk estate, the Mennonite Historical Society has been able to purchase this
                    extensive and valuable collection of sources, together with some books on Mennonite history.
            The writer of the article on the 
                        Terre Haute
                     Literary Club, which we print in this number has been a member of that society during
                    recent years. It was the privilege of the Editor
                     to be a member of that somewhat unique organization from 1910
                    to 1918. In 1910 the Club was nearly thirty years old, but only a few of the members of the early
                    years were still active—among them Judge Sidney B. Davis, Spencer F. Ball and Supt.
                    William H. Wiley. Many of the members of 1910 dropped out before 1918 and their places were taken by
                    new men. The personnel of the society has changed materially every few years. While this has been
                    true, the character and traditions of the organization have remained almost unaltered. Frequently a
                    member has declared the Club to be dead, but nothing has been able to kill it. Whether five or ten
                    or thirty members happen to be present, whether two or three visitors or many, the paper of the
                    evening is always read and discussed, almost every member being just as hapyy to present his
                    contribution to a few as to a large group. This has been, perhaps, the choicest characteristic of
                    the Club. Success has not depended on numbers, nor on dues collected, nor on outstanding members,
                    but always on the activities of those present at any meeting. The free-for-all discussions have
                    often been poor enough, but frequently enough of surprisingly high quality. Most members have
                    quickly learned to like the atmosphere of the weekly meetings, though some there have been who could
                    never catch the spirit. It has been, and is, good for a man to belong to a Club whose members extend
                    to him no hollow welcome, never urge him to come back if he wishes to remain away and never praise
                    his efforts as a mere formality. We trust that the Club may not lose the old spirit, and that it may
                    still exist in 1981.
         
         
         
            Comment
            It has been too easy during the present economic crisis, to assume that overproduction is the cause
                    of low prices for wheat, cotton, hogs, other agricultural products, coal and many kinds of
                    manufactured goods. Over-supply is one basic cause for falling prices, but so is under-demand.
                    Furthermore, demand that can be translated into actual buying certainly is at present far below the
                    actual needs of the consuming public in the 
                        United States
                     and other countries. In a well-adjusted economic system, it should be possible for
                    production to go on very nearly in proportion to the needs of society. In other words, the system of
                    exchange ought to be so regulated that the needs of consumers would never exceed materially their
                    buying power.
            Under present conditions, the factor which does most to prevent wheat from ultimately reaching those
                    who need bread, cotton from benefiting the masses who have not sufficient clothing, etc., seems to
                    be the system of banking and currency. The figures in regard to the amount of money in circulation
                    in the 
                        United States
                    , for example, appear to be large enough, but a vast amount of the money included is
                    only nominally in use. In addition, it must be remembered that, in normal or flush times, a colossal
                    amount of business is transacted through checks, drafts, promissory notes and numerous other credit
                    instruments, money serving mainly as a basis for an enormous number of daily exchanges and business
                    deals where no actual cash is involved. Gold floats paper currency, and, on the supply of the two
                    kinds of money, the gigantic structure of credit transactions is pyramided. The conclusion is that
                    the disastrous depressions which follow financial crashes or panics are made worse and prolonged by
                    the weakness of the system of banking and currency. Probably the solution for the depression that
                    comes in the wake of a panic lies in some very simple method of increasing the use of the money
                    actually in existence and in devising emergency certificates that will enable producers to exchange
                    commodities of one kind for another, men to render services for services, to expend labor for
                    products or to trade products for labor. Certainly twentieth century minds will not acknowledge that
                    they can only remain paralyzed and helpless, in a world which has products and  labor in abundance on the one hand, and a vast accumulation of
                    unsatisfied needs on the other.
            There was in the period succeeding the world war an intense desire on the part of people to suppress
                    opinions supposed to be at variance with the public good. Old organizations entered the field to
                    control the utterances of obnoxious persons and new societies were formed to carry on the
                    "good work". The number of persons and groups who knew positively just what all
                    others should think and say was very great. With the passage of years, many active spirits have
                    become more liberal. If not, they have at least become weary of imposing restraints on others.
                    Unfortunately, there are still ardent souls who do not see the dangers in a policy of suppression,
                    who still feel that they have a monopoly on the power to understand what ought to be said on any
                    subject and who are never so happy as when shouting that this man or that woman should be driven
                    from the community OP the country for some oral or written conviction given to the public.
            A serious result of the never-ending conflict between wets and drys is that, whether on one side or
                    the other, citizens can not take an intelligent stand on other important and pressing questions,
                    having made prohibition the paramount issue. In addition, a voter often finds himself supporting a
                    candidate for office because he is a dry or a wet, though believing him unfit for a public position
                    on almost every other count. Because of these facts, representatives and executives in the states
                    and in the nation are tempted to be dishonest in regard to prohibition—to be dry or wet
                    according to the necessities of the situation. A very strong leader deeply interested in policies of
                    importance, who does not wish to terminate his usefulness, has often no alternative other than
                    catering to wets or drys. So greatly does the conspicuous position which prohibition occupies in
                    American politics interfere with self-government under the party system that it should cause all
                    thoughtful citizens to pause and reflect. Much consideration ought to be given to the suggestion
                    that the prohibition issue should be submitted separately to the voters of the country, before
                    rejecting the plan. If a referendum once in every eight or twelve years will eliminate the question
                    from politics, it may well be worth the cost in money and effort.
            
            Of the contributors to this issue, Dr. James A. Woodburn, formerly head of the history department at
                    Indiana University and for several years President of the Indiana Historical Society, is well known
                    to our readers; Albert Ross Williams is an instructor in history, Manual Training High School, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Earl E. McDonald is instructor in history and debating, in the High School, Lansing, 
                        Michigan
                    ; Dr. Murray N. Hadley is assistant professor of surgery, Indiana University Medical
                    School, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Lorin C. Halberstadt, is an instructor in history, Gerstmeyer High School, 
                        Terre Haute
                    ; M. W. Pershing is a retired Republican editor living in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who for many years ran a newspaper at 
                        Tipton
                    , Indiana, where he still maintains a voting residence; Christopher B. Coleman is
                    Secretary of the Indiana Historical Society; J. Harley Nichols, now a graduate student at Indiana
                    University, has been for several years an assistant professor of history at the Ball Teachers
                    College, 
                        Muncie
                    ; Dr. Ernest M. Linton is an associate professor of political science at Indiana
                    University and an associate director of the Extension Division.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author.
         
         
            Wanted
            We are sure that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired publications, will confer a
                    great favor by writing to the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need for copies of issues from 1905
                    to 1913—especially for: the four numbers of volume IV (1908); number one of volume VI
                    (1910); the four numbers of volume VII (1911); the four numbers of volume VIII (1912). We will buy
                    also further copies of the following issues: Mar., 1914; Dec., 1921; Mar., 1922; Sept., 1922; Dec.,
                    1922; June, 1923; and Mar., 1926.
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries or individuals who
                    may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at fifty-cents a copy, or
                    two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four
                    dollars per volume, except in the case of certain numbers which have become very scarce the price is
                    one dollar and a half per copy, causing the price per volume to vary accordingly; single copies from
                    1905-1913, when they can be supplied at all, must be priced at a much higher figure.
            
            Mr. George S. Cottman, the first editor of the Indiana Magazine of History, who now
                    resides at 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, R. R. 5, has a complete file of the Magazine which he is
                    willing to sell to any library for $200. The first three volumes are bound, but the
                    remaining volumes are unbound. The opportunity to purchase an unbroken file from the beginning is
                    unusual. Anyone desiring to purchase should write to Mr. Cottman, or to the Indiana
                        Magazine of History.
            
            
               Indiana School Journal. Wanted vol. 37, numbers, 7-8 (1892); vol. 38, numbers 6, 9,
                    10, 11,12 (1893); vol. 40, numbers 4, 9, 10,11 (1895).
            National Educational Association Proceedings. Wanted for 1860, 1864, 1872, 1884,
                    and 1885.
            The Indianian. This magazine was published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     from 1897 to 1900, six volumes in all. Wanted: Vol. I, number 1 (Dec. 1897), number 2
                    (Jan. 1898), numbers 4 and 5 (March and April, 1898); vol II—number 1 (June, 1898); vol.
                    VI—number 1 (July, 1900), number 3 (Sept., 1900), number 6 (Dec., 1900). Will purchase an
                    extra set of the six numbers of vol. I, bound or unbound.
            
               Indiana, Past and Present. This little, temporary periodical was published during
                    1914. Wanted a copy of Number 2 (May, 1914).
            
               The Menrtonite Quarterly Review. Wanted a copy of vol. I, number 1.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
