
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 13, Issue 4, pages 307-420. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:13+issue:4+year:1917&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
      
         
         
            
               
                        Lincoln
                     in Indiana
            By J. EDWARD MURR
            
            INDIANA UNCLE AND COUSINS
            
            
                    "When I send a man to buy n horse for me I expect hiin to tell me
                        his points, and not the number of hairs in his tail."
                
            The removal of Josiah 
                        Lincoln
                    , uncle of the President, to Indiana was some four years prior to
                    the admission of the State into the Union. It appears that he, like many others
                    who lived in slave territory, hearing of the fine prospects in the
                    "Indian country to the north," joined the tide of emigrants
                    coming up from the south, and with no particular objective in view journeyed out
                    into this wilderness, not knowing whither he went save that, in common with
                    substantially all of the pioneers, he did not stop until the great oak forests
                    in the hills were reached, where there was abundant, ever-flowing springs of
                    clear water.
            The location chosen was in 
                        Harrison
                     county, where, at the little town of Corydon, was then located the
                    seat of government of the territory, which four years after his arrival became
                    the capital of the State. The land which he selected was originally covered with
                    a heavy growth of timber, was well watered and doubtless was considered a good
                    location by the pioneer; but it is now largely barren and comparatively
                    valueless.
            Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                    , the father of the President and younger brother of Josiah, came on
                    a visit to this section of the State  a
                    short while prior to his own removal from 
                        Kentucky
                     to 
                        Spencer
                     county, Indiana. The inhabitants of the territory at the time of
                    Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                    's visit were looking forward to its early admission into
                    the Union. It was while visiting his brother that Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     decided to seek a home in the wilderness of Indiana, making choice
                    of a place a few miles farther west.
            Comparatively little is known of Josiah 
                        Lincoln
                    . However, what is remembered possesses at least some value as
                    setting forth certain family traits. In personal appearance he somewhat
                    resembled his brother Thomas, being rather rugged, compactly built, of dark
                    complexion—as were all of his descendants. Moreover, he had a broad,
                    hearty laugh and was given to story telling. The writer personally knew the
                    older descendants of Josiah 
                        Lincoln
                    , as well as those of the generation following.
            All of the Lincolns in Indiana during the campaign of 1860 were Democrats and
                    voted for Judge Douglas for President in preference to their illustrious
                    kinsman, with the single exception of Benjamin. He was early influenced
                    politically and otherwise by his mother's relatives, who were
                    Republicans, and this accounts for the support given to his relative rather than
                    any ties of consanguinity or mere family loyalty. Moreover, the larger portion
                    of the younger Lincolns have ever been and are now Democrats. Only one of this
                    branch of the family became a Civil war soldier, and he, Warden 
                        Lincoln
                    , having volunteered and been mustered into the ranks under the
                    excitement of the times, found occasion later, as claimed by some of his
                    relatives, to express regret at having enlisted, but he made a good soldier,
                    serving as a private. He had the misfortune of being taken prisoner and for a
                    time was in Libby prison, but being later placed on Belle Isle, was exchanged
                    and reached home. Doubtless, had it been known by those in authority at the
                    prison that he was a cousin of the Abolitionist in the 
                        White
                     House, he would not have been granted his freedom.
            Mordecai and Joseph, brothers of Warden, were drafted. Mordecai, not desirous of
                    personally serving, sent a substitute, while Joseph, entertaining the same
                    attitude in the 
                    
                  INDIANA IN 1816.—From Thomas' Travels
                  
               
                     matter, and not being possessed of
                    sufficient means to obtain a substitute, took French leave, so his relatives
                    assert, of Indiana and succeeded in eluding the authorities by repairing to the
                    State of 
                        Illinois
                     until after the close of hostilities. The political attitude of
                    these Lincolns toward their kinsman in the 
                        White
                     House, and their criticism of the conduct of the war by the
                    administration, were in keeping with the attitude of many of their neighbors in
                    southern Indiana, and indeed of many throughout the entire North.
            Southern Indiana and southern 
                        Illinois
                    , both having been very largely peopled from the South, it was not
                    strange that there was a large element whose sympathies were favorable to the
                    Southern Confederacy. But there were large numbers in both States, many of them
                    friends and supporters of Judge Douglas, who were intensely loyal to the Union.
            
               
                        Illinois
                    , however, was more fortunate than was Indiana in one very important
                    particular, in that General John A. Logan, a Democrat up to the fall of Fort
                    Sumter and for some time thereafter, resided in that section of the State, and
                    being loyal to the flag wielded a salutary influence over his followers.
            The southern portion of Indiana did not possess a leader of the prominence of
                    Logan to turn the tide in favor of the Union in this crisis. There is small
                    wonder that the Knights of the Golden Circle and kindred disloyal organizations
                    flourished. But notwithstanding this, the majority of the soldiers who went out
                    from first to last during the great war from southern Indiana were Democrats.
            The writer's father was a Douglas Democrat, casting his vote for the
                    "Little Giant" in preference to the
                    "Railsplitter," and never manifested at any time any
                    partiality for 
                        Lincoln
                    . While he saw no military service, being an invalid, three of his
                    brothers served the Union.
            Practically all of the numerous descendants of Josiah 
                        Lincoln
                     were and are rather short of stature, maintaining to the latest
                    generation those characteristics manifested in their progenitor and which may be
                    said to be distinctively 
                        Lincoln
                     traits.
            They almost uniformly have coarse black hair, dark eyes,  and somewhat given to humor which in certain
                    instances has been quite marked. For the most part they have been small farmers,
                    the exception being that two of them for a time, like their cousin Abraham,
                    attempted to keep a general store, and it was attended with about as much
                    success as was his venture—"it winked out." One of
                    the younger generation, Joseph, the son of Mordecai, is an auctioneer, and he
                    especially possesses some degree of wit and humor.
            This branch of the President's family have always been regarded by their
                    neighbors as good citizens, possessing splendid neighborly qualities. All of
                    them have been, and are poor, yet honesty has ever characterized them. They have
                    always had the reputation of being peaceful and inoffensive, possessing in
                    substantially every instance a high sense of honor; and if any liberties were
                    attempted with this, or intentional provocation in any form given, it was met
                    with a challenge to a personal encounter. The absence of personal fear or
                    cowardice is very marked among them and in certain ones there was a venturesome
                    spirit. The writer well recalls hearing "Mord" 
                        Lincoln
                     say: "My rule for fording Big Blue when she's on
                    a tear is: watch for the hosses' ears and as long as I c'n see
                    'em I'm all right."
            While none of the Indiana Lincolns possessed unusual physical strength or marked
                    mental ability, yet they were generally hardy and rugged, and occasionally there
                    was one who in the common schools gave evidence of possessing more than
                    ordinary, ability. However, their schooling has been confined to the grades in
                    substantially every case.
            They have maintained certain family names, such as Mordecai, Joseph, Thomas and
                    Benjamin, but there has never been an Abraham among them, and it is highly
                    probable that there never will be. It should be stated, however, that one son of
                    Warden, who served in the Union army during the Civil war, is called
                    "Abe," not by the family, but by his schoolmates and others
                    merely as a nickname.
            During the Civil war when there were those in this section of the State
                    accustomed to indulge in caustic criticism of the administration at 
                        Washington
                     in conducting the war and of Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                     in particular, calling him "the Black
                    Abolitionist,"  etc., none of his
                    Indiana relatives resented this, and while they did not agree with their kinsman
                    in the 
                        White
                     House politically, they refrained from indulging in the use of
                    severe and clearly objectionable personal remarks themselves. Yet they were
                    pleased rather than not when others pointed out mistakes of the administration.
            After the close of the war they assumed an attitude of silence to the rising fame
                    of the President, neither manifesting pleasure nor indicating any displeasure,
                    and this attitude has been kept up to the present time; so much so, in fact,
                    that in almost every instance when approached and engaged in conversation
                    concerning the Great Emancipator they assume a listening attitude, apparently
                    proud of the great fame of their kinsman Abraham, but loath to say anything
                    themselves, The writer does not recall ever hearing an Indiana 
                        Lincoln
                     indulge in any language that could by any possible construction be
                    construed to mean a boast of his relationship to the President.
            It may be said, therefore, that the attitude of this branch of the Lincolns
                    toward the President is that they are proud of the fact that their kinsman
                    became illustrious and made for himself a great name, but they are in every case
                    quite content to look upon this in common with the millions, not desirous at all
                    of receiving any notoriety by reason of their kinship to him. This rather
                    exceptional disposition is not due to any petty jealousy, certainly not
                    attributable to ignorance or any remnant of ante-bellum political prejudice, but
                    is rather due to a distinctive family trait so remarkable as to be true of all
                    of them; that is, they possess a mingled modesty and honesty which forbids undue
                    personal exaltation or any disposition whatever to reap where they have not
                    sown.
            The political predilections of the Indiana Lincolns is not a thing to be regarded
                    as at all strange or such as to occasion wonder, since the earlier members of
                    the family, including Thomas, the father of the President, and even the
                    President himself, were all Democrats in politics originally. Before his leaving
                    Indiana for 
                        Illinois
                     Abraham was a pronounced Jacksonian Democrat, priding himself in
                    this, and John Hanks is the authority for saying that he offered to whip a man;
                    in 
                        Illinois
                     soon after their arrival in that State who was speaking  rather disparagingly of 
                        Jackson
                    . So pronounced was 
                        Lincoln
                    's attitude during the 
                        Adams
                     and 
                        Jackson
                     campaign that some of the old pioneer friends recalled a couplet or
                    two of a song that "Abe" and Dennis Hanks were in the habit of
                    singing:
            
                    "Let auld acquaintance be forgot.
                    And never brought to mind,
                    And 
                            Jackson
                         be our President
                    And 
                            Adams
                         left behind."
                
            The manner of life of the older members of the Indiana Lincolns, their personal
                    appearance, their contentment and indeed joy amid struggles with poverty, bear a
                    marked similarity to that of Thomas, the father of the President, so that it may
                    be said that their life was lived on a somewhat similar plane to his. Although
                    the location of the President's boyhood home in 
                        Spencer
                     county is but a few miles from where Josiah 
                        Lincoln
                     settled and where may still be found many of his descendants, yet
                    none of these has ever visited this section, and not one of them was present on
                    the occasion of the unveiling of the Nancy Hanks 
                        Lincoln
                     monument in the year 1902. Likewise, none of these Indiana
                    relatives has ever made a pilgrimage to 
                        Springfield
                     to see the grave of the President, or gone to the nation's
                    capitol.
            If there is discerned in the President's paternal relatives a reticence
                    somewhat exceptional, as well as a disposition to avoid any accusation of
                    desiring to take advantage of or in any way profit by the good fortune of a
                    kinsman, it certainly stands out in bold contrast to the behavior of all of his
                    maternal relatives, the Hankses, who straightway importuned Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                     to befriend them on his accession to the presidency, a thing,
                    however, which he failed to do. The Indiana branch of the President's
                    family never so much as wrote him a letter or in any other way attempted to
                    communicate with him for any assistance looking to the liberation of Warden 
                        Lincoln
                     from a southern prison, where he was known to be undergoing all of
                    the usual discomforts of prison life, perhaps suffering some indignities by
                    reason of his name and blood.
            In seeking to account for Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                    's greatness it is therefore not at all necessary to resort
                    to certain doubtful  expedients or envelop
                    his fame in mystery, as smoe have been disposed to do. Such persons have gone to
                    the extreme of lightly esteeming both his maternal and paternal ancestry, and
                    have attributed his uncommon endowment to the example and influence of his
                    stepmother, Mrs. Sally Bush 
                        Lincoln
                    . Others, by reason of the obscure origin of his mother, Nancy
                    Hanks, have supposed that his greatness is traceable to this source, and yet
                    still others, going on the theory that it was necessary to have a great ancestry
                    in order to account for such a remarkable man as was Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                    , eagerly sought to trace some connection with the noted 
                        Lincoln
                     family of the East, and when it became apparent that they were of
                    common origin this was seized upon and became all that in their estimation had
                    hitherto been found wanting. The proper attitude concerning the matter, it
                    seems, would be that Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                     was indebted equally to both the Lincolns and the Hankses for
                    certain well-known traits of his character, but since the 
                        Lincoln
                     traits unquestionably predominated in him and his connection with
                    the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Lincolns has been established, the historian is relieved from the
                    temptation of overshadowing his life with certain elements of mystery. For no
                    matter what currents swept into his blood, and whatever in his character may be
                    attributable to these, the fact remains that the President possessed those
                    well-marked family characteristics, both physical and mental, so peculiar to the
                    Lincolns.
            LINCOLN'S POVERTY
            
            
                    A friend caine to him to borrow n "biled" shirt.
                        "I have only two," said 
                            Lincoln
                        ; "the one I have just taken off and the one I have on.
                        Which will you take."
                
            The elder Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , father of Thomas, appears to have been a man of passing wealth for
                    that day. On his reaching 
                        Kentucky
                     from 
                        Virginia
                     in the year 1780, he entered on large tracts of land, and was
                    apparently destined to prosper; but subjected as the pioneers were to the
                    depredations of marauding Indians, he fell a victim to these vindictive and
                    merciless foes in the year 1788. The story of the manner of his death and some
                    of the attendant circumstances have often been related by biographers of his
                    grandson.
            
            This story was one of the legacies of pioneer days bequeathed to his sons by
                    Josiah 
                        Lincoln
                    . This and other stories, they allege, were often related by him
                    about the fireside on winter evenings, describing somewhat in detail this
                    particularly tragic scene. He told of the father being shot and killed from
                    ambush by the bloodthirsty savages while he was laboring in a clearing a short
                    distance from the house, accompanied by his three sons, Mordecai, himself, and
                    Thomas, the father of the President. When the shot was fired and the father
                    fell, both Mord and Josiah immediately fled, Mord going to the house to secure a
                    gun. Taking deliberate aim at an ornament on the breast of an Indian brave, who,
                    with uplifted tomahawk, was in the act of dispatching his baby brother Thomas,
                    he fired, killing him instanly. Josiah having left his brother Mord to the
                    protection of the two sisters and his mother, ran for neighborly aid, which he
                    straightway procured, and on their return all the Indians had departed, save a
                    wounded one, who had crawled into the top of a fallen tree. No quarter was shown
                    to this unfortunate, and while the circumstance produced in Mord such
                    ungovernable hatred for the redskins as to cause him to slay them on the least
                    provocation, or no provocation at all, ever afterward, yet it does not appear
                    that it so affected either Thomas or Josiah.
            Although the elder 
                        Lincoln
                     possessed large tracts of land, yet the old law of primogeniture
                    caused his entire estate to pass into the hands of his eldest son, Mord, who, it
                    appears, did not in any way aid his brothers. He managed so poorly as to possess
                    but little more than either Josiah or Thomas on the occasion of his removal from 
                        Kentucky
                    , which date is not certain, but is known to have been after
                    approaching old age.
            At the time of the father's death in the year 1788, Thomas, the fourth
                    child and youngest son, was ten years of age. Thus? left fatherless at the same
                    age that his illustrious son was bereft of a mother, he led a somewhat checkered
                    career. He became more or less a wanderer, for we catch glimpses of him visiting
                    and laboring as a "hired man" for his uncle Jacob on a
                    tributary of the Holston river in 
                        Tennessee
                    ; then in Breckenridge county, 
                        Kentucky
                    , where at one time he whipped 
                    a noted bully in "just three minutes," coming out of the
                    encounter without a scratch. In 1803, at the age of twenty-five, he purchased a
                    farm, and in the year 1806 he was in Hardin county, learning the
                    carpenter's trade with Joseph Hanks. His vagrant and wandering career
                    had given him a plentiful supply of anecdotes and yarns, which it is said he
                    could tell very cleverly, and which was perhaps one of the best, if not the
                    only, trait ever certainly bequeathed by him to his son Abraham.
            The father of the President has been described by numerous writers as being in
                    person comparatively short and stout, standing five feet, ten inches in his
                    shoes. His hair was dark and coarse, complexion brown, his face round and full,
                    his eyes gray, and his nose large and prominent. He weighed at different times
                    from one hundred and seventy to one hundred and ninety-six pounds. He was so
                    "tight and compact" that Dennis Hanks declared, "he
                    never could find the points of separation between his ribs, though he felt for
                    them often." He was a little stoop-shouldered, and walked with a slow,
                    halting step. He was sinewy and brave, but his habitually peaceable disposition
                    once fairly overborne, he became a tremendous man in a rough-and-tumble fight.
            At the time of his marriage to Nancy Hanks, June 12th, 1806, Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     could neither read nor write, an accomplishment that his wife
                    possessed, thereby causing her to be esteemed and looked upon with more or less
                    wonder by the illiterate pioneers. This circumstance, by way of contrast with
                    her husband's deficiency in this and certain other things,
                    unfortunately caused many of her son's biographers, in attempting to
                    eulogize the wife and mother, to esteem lightly whatever of excellence Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     possessed.
            It has been the fashion of many of these biographers of President 
                        Lincoln
                     to speak disparagingly of his father, and no word in any caricature
                    of his supposed shortcomings has been used more often than that of
                    "shiftless." They have accused him of improvidence; made the
                    occasion of his learning the carpenter's trade a mere pretext; and
                    refused to allow that he was anything more than a pretender with tools after
                    actually learning the trade and doing more or less work. They  have found fault with his lack of ambition. They
                    charge him with inability to pay for a farm of some two hundred acres which he
                    purchased at the age of twenty-five years, three years prior to his marriage.
                    They have professed to see in his three removals in 
                        Kentucky
                    , his going from that State to Indiana, thence to 
                        Illinois
                    , and two or three changes of location in that State, nothing but
                    evidence of a confirmed nomadic wanderer. These and many similar accusations
                    against him have been made from the first biography of his son to the last.
            When the governor of a certain State on one occasion expostulated with his aged
                    mother for granting certain indlgencies to his little son, she straightway
                    admonished him by saying: "When you, sir, shall have reared as good and
                    great a son as I have, then you may come to me with your theories and they shall
                    receive due and proper consideration, but not before." So in like
                    manner, when these ruthless, not to say heartless, critics of Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                    , the father of the President, shall take into consideration the
                    fact that while he did have certain defects of character, even to the point of
                    being actually shiftless, yet be it said to his everlasting credit that no man
                    since the world began has ever been father of such a son.
            It is submitted that for a boy fatherless at ten, "kicked and cuffed
                    about from pillar to post", with no money nor influential friends, with
                    absolutely no school advantages—certainly not having the chance that
                    his son had, and yet accomplishing certain things—he deserves some
                    credit at least. He appears to have been steady enough and sufficiently settled
                    in life not only to learn a trade, but to become the owner of a farm at
                    twenty-five, which fact alone indicates at least that he had some native ability
                    and force of character. It is related that he possessed the best kit of
                    carpenter's tools in his county. He was regarded as a man possessed of
                    sufficient ability to warrant the civil authorities in appointing him road
                    surveyor or supervisor, which, while a position of no great moment, meant
                    something in the way of leadership and responsibility. When all these facts are
                    taken into consideration it must be said that Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     was a man of some  ability, and
                    certainly not deserving the treatment that he has received at the hands of the
                    biographers of his son.
            Some time during the late summer of the year 1816 Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     built a raft on Rolling Fork of Salt river, on which he loaded most
                    of his effects, consisting of a tool chest, a number of barrels of whiskey, and
                    such other things as he possessed, save a few lighter and more needful household
                    articles which his family would make use of in his absence. He proceeded to make
                    a journey down Salt river to the 
                        Ohio
                     and thence to Indiana, where he had decided to seek his fortunes in
                    an effort to better his condition.
            That the elder 
                        Lincoln
                     was of a restless and roving disposition is beyond dispute, and his
                    repeated removals "to better his condition" to some extent
                    justify the many charges of his biographers of his being a mere wanderer and
                    squatter. In spite of the apparent justness of these accusations, most of these
                    proposed ventures promised well, and certainly in some one or two instances
                    there was abundant excuse for the venture made. We have the best of
                    authority—his illustrious son—for believing that he was
                    actuated by good and sufficient motives for his removal from 
                        Kentucky
                     to Indiana; and it appears that no better reasons were ever offered
                    by any pioneer for a change of location than those in favor of 
                        Lincoln
                    's removal from Indiana to 
                        Illinois
                     in 1830. President 
                        Lincoln
                    , in discussing the reasons for their leaving the State of 
                        Kentucky
                    , said that it was "partly on account of slavery, but
                    chiefly on account of the difficulty in land titles in 
                        Kentucky
                    ." It should be remembered also that for some seven
                    generations the family had been pioneers in as many States or counties, and
                    Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     was but manifesting the same disposition that appears to have
                    possessed his forbears.
            Being a carpenter, it is to be presumed that the elder 
                        Lincoln
                     had no difficulty in constructing a craft that under ordinary
                    circumstances would prove seaworthy. It is believed that in view of the fact
                    that he had made at least two flat-boat trips down the Mississippi
                        river to 
                        New Orleans
                    , he was a fairly good waterman. On this trip soon after entering
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     from the mouth of Salt river his boat or raft capsized, causing the
                    loss of the larger part of his cargo. We are told,  however, that he succeeded in righting the raft,
                    fishing up some of the whisky and tools, and contenting himself as best he could
                    with the loss of the remainder, he continued his journey, finally docking at
                    Thompson's, now called Gage's Landing, a short distance below
                    the town of Troy, Indiana. His reason for choosing 
                        Spencer
                     county rather than settling near his brother Josiah in 
                        Harrison
                     county was largely due to the fact that he was dependent upon the
                    river for conveyance of his effects to a new location, and having "run
                    the river" he had some knowledge of this region where he eventually
                    located.
            After making his lonely journey and effecting a safe landing at
                    Thompson's, he placed his cargo under the care of a settler by the name
                    of 
                        Posey
                    . Since this man preferred the river front to the interior, and
                    could make use of the boat, it was sold to him, and the pioneer "struck
                    out on foot" in the wilderness in search of a new home. After going
                    inland some fifteen miles he met with a man by the name of Carter, with whom he
                    had more or less acquaintance. (
                        Lincoln
                     City is in Carter township.) This circumstance seems to have
                    largely determined his choice of the location which he made in the
                    "midst of the bush". There were seven families residing in
                    this region when Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     made choice of his future home.
            The site chosen by Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     was admirable from every standpoint save one, and that defect
                    outweighed all of the splendid advantages it otherwise possessed. It did not
                    have a never-failing spring; in fact, there was not at that time any water on
                    it. Later, as Dennis Hanks stated, "Tom 
                        Lincoln
                     riddled his land like a honey comb for water, but did not succeed
                    in finding it."
            Although 
                        Lincoln
                     proceeded to take possession of the quarter section of land in true
                    pioneer fashion by cutting and piling brush at the corners, he became in fact a
                    squatter until the month of October, 1817, when he journeyed to 
                        Vincennes
                     and formally entered the land, although the patent was not issued
                    until June, 1827.
            The site chosen for his "camp" was on a rather high knoll
                    sloping in every direction. In ten days after landing his craft  at 
                        Posey
                    's he announced that his "half faced
                    camp" was ready for occupancy, having in that time cut the poles or
                    logs and notched them, doubtless being assisted by Carter and others. Crossing
                    the 
                        Ohio
                    , he walked back to the old home in 
                        Kentucky
                    —a distance of about one hundred miles—and
                    securing the friendly aid of his brother-in-law, who supplied him with two
                    horses, he took his little family, consisting of his wife, his daughter Sarah,
                    aged nine, and son Abraham, aged seven, and "packed through to 
                        Posey
                    's".
            The town of Troy was at this time a place of some importance ; indeed, of all
                    those towns in the southern and western portion of the State, it was second only
                    to 
                        Vincennes
                     in size. In the year prior to the coming of the Lincolns a settler
                    by the name of Hoskins had been employed to blaze a trail from Troy to the
                    village of Darlington, the county-seat town to the west, in order that
                    "the mail carrier might not get lost". This blazed trail
                    passed through the region where Gentryville was a little later laid out, and it
                    was over this trail, a "bridle path", that Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     moved his family and household effects to his new home. A wagon had
                    in some manner been procured for this purpose, although such vehicles were not
                    at all common, for the first wagon brought to this part of the State was by one
                    John Small, a Kentuckian, in the year 1814.
            After encountering considerable difficulty on account of felling trees and the
                    removal of logs, making their comparatively short journey of fifteen miles a
                    very tedious and trying one, they at length reached the half-faced camp. The
                    time of the arrival of the new "settlers" was during the last
                    half of the summer of 1816. At any rate, it appears that sufficient time was
                    left after their arrival to enable them to cultivate "a few vegetables
                    and a little corn."
            The new home to which Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     took his little family was a singular one indeed. As has been
                    indicated, it was made of small sapling logs or poles and had but three sides
                    closed, the fourth being left open, where a bonfire or log heap was kept burning
                    during cold weather, and not only served to ward off the wintry blasts, but
                    afforded the only means they had for cooking. The little, one-room, pole cabin
                    was fourteen feet square, without windows, ceiling or floor,  and of course there was no necessity for a door.
                    The household and kitchen furniture was only such in name. Aside from a small
                    amount of bedding, a Dutch oven, skillet and some tinware, there was at first
                    nothing with which to furnish the home. A rude bedstead was constructed in one
                    corner, and in another corner a pile of leaves gathered from the surrounding
                    forest constituted the couch of the future President.
            The woods surrounding the cabin furnished an abundant harvest of wild grapes,
                    crab apples (Johnny Appleseed had unfortunately never reached this section),
                    service (sarvis), black and strawberries were quite plentiful.
            The writer recalls hearing his grandmother (who came from the South a short while
                    after the coming of the Lin-colns) tell of the abundance of wild strawberries in
                    this region. They drove through acres of these berries, and so luxuriant were
                    the vines and so plentiful the harvest that the limbs and even portions of the
                    body of a white horse were discolored, as if the animal had waded in blood.
                    There were nuts of various sorts to be had in the forest, such as hickory,
                    pecan, hazel, and the white and black walnut. Moreover, the virgin forest was a
                    hunter's paradise, there being bears, deer and choice wild fowls, such
                    as turkeys, geese and ducks. In addition to these, there were the smaller game
                    birds and animals. Any undue amount of pity and sympathy bestowed on pioneers
                    dwelling in such a land of plenty is wasted. While not perhaps flowing with milk
                    and honey, yet in so far as the mere matter of supplying the larder was
                    concerned it could scarcely have been more highly favored. There is small wonder
                    that Dennis Hanks was moved to exclaim in his old age, when recalling these
                    years spent in Indiana: "I enjoyed myself then more than I ever have
                    since."
            The first winter spent in Indiana was, so far as bodily comfort was concerned,
                    the most trying time in the life of the future President, as he lived quite on
                    the level, if not below, that of thousands of slaves whom he afterward
                    liberated. With one side of their little cabin open to the elements and the
                    rebellious smoke again and again sweeping into the camp, it furnished not only a
                    striking contrast to the later life of the President, but so far surpassing
                    anything in history as to leave little chance for a parallel.
            
            The elder 
                        Lincoln
                     has been censured from first to last for his failure to provide
                    better accommodations not only during the first year of his Indiana life, but is
                    charged with continued improvidence and neglect, being called lazy by many of
                    the biographers of his son. It must be remembered in speaking of Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                    's poverty that while he was poor indeed, yet poverty was
                    quite the rule of all the pioneers of this early period. Though it can not be
                    claimed that he was especially "work brittle" and ambitious
                    enough to go out and seek labor, yet he never avoided work offered. He seems to
                    have rested upon that passage of Scripture which says to let every day provide
                    for itself. Nevertheless, the writer failed to find among his pioneer neighbors
                    any charge that Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                    , and his son Abraham in particular, were "lazy".
                    On the contrary, it was asserted that while the elder 
                        Lincoln
                     lacked initiative, taking life quite easy, he was content if
                    perchance crops were abundant and labor to be had. When the morose and gloomy
                    made doleful prophecies as to a hard winter and failure of crops, he was buoyant
                    in spirit, optimistic, laughing and even joking with his neighbors concerning
                    their fears. Although not regarded as a hard-working man for himself, he made a
                    "good hand for others" and was at work almost continually.
            So much has been said concerning the poverty of 
                        Lincoln
                    's youth that it is proposed here to examine the evidence
                    from an angle hitherto not taken. One of the boyhood friends of 
                        Lincoln
                    , Wesley Hall, some two years younger than the President, related a
                    number of incidents concerning this period, and one in particular bearing upon
                    his poverty.
            Wesley Hall's father was a Kentuckian who had moved to Indiana, settling
                    some four miles from the 
                        Lincoln
                     cabin, but reaching this section some time after the coming of the
                    Lincolns. The elder Hall was regarded as quite prosperous for one in those days.
                    Furnishing some justification for this claim, he operated a tanyard, in addition
                    to owning and cultivating a large farm, making shipments of leather by way of
                    the river to southern markets. This necessitated at certain times the employment
                    of a number of men, and he frequently employed both the elder 
                        Lincoln
                    , as well as his son Abraham.
            
            On one occasion during the early winter Wesley Hall was sent to mill beyond
                    Gentryville, a short distance from the 
                        Lincoln
                     cabin, but since the Halls lived to the east some four miles it was
                    more than a five miles' journey. According to the pioneer custom, no
                    favors were shown youth or age in certain things, and the rule especially
                    obtained in the matter of going to mill, for each one had to "take his
                    turn." Such was the law.
            Young Hall found upon his arrival on this occasion that a number of men and boys
                    had preceded him, and by the time his turn came the entire day had almost
                    passed. During the last half of the afternoon a severe snow storm had set in,
                    and by the time the miller carried out his "grist" and
                    assisted him to mount preparatory to making the homeward journey some inches of
                    snow had fallen. This alarmed the pioneer lad, lest some mishap should befall
                    him and he should lose his way through the forest, become a prey to wild
                    animals, or succumb to the cold. More especially was he so impressed since
                    nightfall was fast approaching and the snow was driving furiously in his face.
                    On reaching the turn in the road leading up to the 
                        Lincoln
                     cabin he decided to go there for the night. Riding up in front of
                    the silent, snow-mantled house, he hallooed in true pioneer fashion a time or
                    two: "Hel-lo! Hel-lo!" Just here it will be proper to permit
                    Mr. Hall to tell the remainder of his story: 
                        Bye and bye I heard the door begin to creak on its wooden hinges, and
                            then through the storm I saw old Tom a shadin∗ his eyes with his hand a tryin' to see who I
                            wuz. And purty soon, satisfying himself that it wuz me, he leaned back
                            and laughed a big broad laugh, and then a startin' out to where
                            I wuz he says, says he: "Is that you AVesley? You get down from
                            thar and come in out of the weather." So I commenct to git
                            ready to slide off my sack and by the time I got ready to light, old Tom
                            wuz there and helped me down. Then a turain' around
                            lookiu' towards the cabin, he calls out a time or two, big and
                            loud: "Abe! O. Abe! Abe!" And he aint more'n
                            called till I seen Abe a couiin' through the
                            door, and when he asked what wuz wanted, and secin' who 1 wuz
                            at the same time, old Tom says: "Come out here and git
                            Wesley's grist while I put his boss in the stable.
                            Wesley's mighty nigh froze I reckon." Then he laughed
                            again. Well, I wuz cold I c'n tell you fer I hadn't
                            had anything to eat ceptin' parched corn since
                            mornin'. Well, as I say, old Tom told Abe to come and get my
                            sack, and I noticed as Abe come out to  where I wuz he hadn't but one shoe
                            on, and thinks I to myself, what's up with Abe fer I saw Abe
                            wuz a walkin' on the ball of his heel so's to hold his
                            big toe up which wuz all tied up, and by this time I reckon there wuz
                            mighty nigh six Inches of snow on the ground. Yit Abe's foot
                            wuz so big and long it didn't make no difference if the snow
                            wuz that deep. Abe hadn't any trouble about a keepin'
                            his sore toe above the snow line. When I asked him what wuz the matter
                            with his foot he told me he'd split his big toe open with an ax
                            out in the clearin' that day. Well, Abe then wuz as big and
                            stout as he ever wuz, and so he jest reached over and took that sack of
                            meal with one hand and layin' it across his arm, him and me
                            went into the house while old Tom put the hoss in the pole stable.
                        I set down in front of the fireplace and comiuenct to thaw out, and in a
                            little bit old Tom come in, and a settin' down by me a
                            slappin' his hands together and then a rubbin' em so,
                            like he alius' done, he says, says he: "Wesley, you
                            got purty cold I reckon, did you?" And when I commenct to say I
                            did, Mrs. 
                                Lincoln
                             come in and she says, after we'd passed the time
                            of day, she says, says she: "Wesley, I reckon you're
                            hungry." And I told her I wuz; and then I told her about the
                            parched corn. And she says: "We haint got no meal to bake
                            bread. We're out just now, but a pointin' to the big
                            bank of embers that I'd already noticed in the fireplace and of
                            course knowd what it meant, she says, says she, "we've
                            got some potatoes in thar a bakin' and we'll git a
                            bite fer you purty soon." At that I spoke up and I says, says
                            I: "Mrs. 
                                Lincoln
                            , jist help yerself out of my sack thar." And so
                            she done as I told her.
                        Well, old Tom and Abe and me went on a talkin' and purty soon I
                            heard a funny grindin' noise back of me, and I looked around to
                            see what it wuz, and it wuz Mrs. 
                                Lincoln
                             a hollerin' out a big turnip.
                    
            
            Just at this point in Mr. Hall's narrative he paused and asked the
                    writer if he could guess what Mrs. 
                        Lincoln
                     was "hollerin' out that turnip fer".
                    When some two or three attempts had been made to solve this mystery and all
                    proved to be clearly wrong, to the evident amusement of the old gentleman, he
                    resumed his narrative by saying: 
                        She was makin' a grease lamp. Course I'd seen a many
                            one. She hollered it out and cut a small groove in it on the lip, and
                            after she'd filled it with hog's lard and laid a wick
                            in the notch, and lit it, she handed it to' me, and a butcher
                            knife to Abe, and she says: "Boys, go and get me some
                            bacon." So me and Abe went out to a little pole smoke house and
                            I held up the light while Abe cut a half moon out of a side of Imoon. So
                            Mrs. 
                                Lincoln
                             went on with gittin' supper, and bye and bye she
                            says: "Supper's ready." So when we set down
                            to it we had corn  cakes, baked
                            potatoes and friend bacon. After the supper disbes was washed up old
                            Tom, a slappln' his hands together and a rubbin' em
                            like I say, he says, says he: "Now, Abe, bring out your book
                            and read fer us." Old Tom couldn't read himself, but
                            he wuz proud that Abe could, and many a time he'd brag about
                            how smart Abe wuz to the folks around about. Well, Abe reached up on a
                            shelf where he kept his books and then a stirrln' up the fire
                            on the hearth with some dry stuff he had piled in one corner by the
                            jamb, he commenced to read.
                    
            
            When the writer asked as to whether the narrator remembered what book it was that
                    Abe read from, he straightway-replied: 
                        Oh, yes! It wuz the life of Ben Frankliu. He read to us till bed time,
                            and that night Abe and me slept together up in the loft. We got up there
                            through a scuttle hole in one corner of the ceiliu', and to git
                            up to it we had to climb up a peg ladder made by boring holes in the
                            logs and insertin' wooden pins. I remember the bedstid which of
                            course I saw many a time. It wuz a mighty sorry affair; still it
                            answered the purpose. A hole wuz bored in the north wall and a rail-like
                            piece wuz sloped off to fit this. Tbe same thing wuz done on the west
                            wall, and these two rails wuz brought together and fastened in the same
                            way to an upright post out in the floor and then acrost these wuz laid
                            split boards or whipped plank, or some thin slats rived out, and on
                            these wuz a gunny sack filled with leaves gathered from tbe woods. On
                            this Abe and me slept covered with bear skins.
                    
            
            
               
                        Lincoln
                    's bedfellow on this snowy winter night lived to see him in
                    the 
                        White
                     House.
            LINCOLN'S BOYHOOD
                        ASSOCIATES
            
            
                    "Gold is good in its place, but loving, brave
                        patriotic men are better than gold. For my part I have striven, and will
                        strive to avoid placing any obstacle in the way. So long as I have been here
                        I have not willingly planted a thorn in any man's
                    bosom."
                
            In the thousands of pamphlets and more extended notices of the life of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     there is, for the most part, comparatively little said concerning
                    the adolescent or formative period in his career. Because of the universal
                    interest in Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                    's life, any contribution bearing upon any phase of his
                    career should be of interest and not wholly without value. Nevertheless, it is
                    true that there has been but meager notice of his youth, since those who have
                    undertaken this  task possessed but little
                    data, and thus in consequence the conviction inevitably forced itself upon all
                    that there was but little that transpired during Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                    's youth particularly prophetic of the years that followed.
                    In many instances, therefore, the formative period in Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                    's life has been, in consequence of the meagerness of
                    knowledge and reliable data, dismissed as being commonplace. Professing to see
                    nothing exceptional during these formative years, his biographers in many
                    instances have passed on to the days of his early manhood, and sought to call
                    attention to what they regard the real beginnings of his remarkable career. In
                    doing so, in their unwarranted haste to pass to the scenes of his public career,
                    they do not fail to quote the well-known lines of the poet which Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                     was accustomed to apply to himself: "My life was but the
                    short and simple annals of the poor," as if this would prove a
                    sufficient refutation of any charge of meager notice of the years prior to the
                    day of his appearing on the prairies of 
                        Illinois
                    . To put it in another way, the 
                        Lincoln
                     admirers have been made to believe that he was a Hoosier prodigal
                    who came to himself about the time, or soon after, reaching the State of 
                        Illinois
                    ; and at this time. or subsequent to it, there were certain
                    super-added things affixed to his character that made for honesty, truthfulness,
                    and fixity of purpose.
            The fact of Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                    's honesty, which was so prominent in his later life, is
                    not doubted for a moment, but since substantially all the recorded instances of
                    this trait of his character found their setting in some event in later life,
                    there is a belief that this trait was not particularly noted in his early
                    career, or if so, it was not sufficiently prominent to call forth especial
                    attention; whereas, all of his early associates interviewed by the writer stated
                    that this was quite marked, and so much so as to cause them to remember him by
                    it.
            The writer is convinced, by reason of some years' residence among the
                    early associates of the great war President. that the boy 
                        Lincoln
                     was father of the man. We are indebted to the many biographers of
                    Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                     for so many things, and to some of these in particular, it would be
                    something approaching sacrilege, for one now at this late day, to even  appear to take any liberties with any long
                    established beliefs concerning our martyred President. Happily this does not
                    appear to be necessary. But however well meant the efforts were on the part of
                    these numerous historians touching Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                    's early career, unfortunately they have succeeded in
                    focusing the gaze of the world either upon the spot in the State of 
                        Kentucky
                     that gave him birth, or upon the prairies of 
                        Illinois
                     where he took his rise to fame, and where his ashes now rest.
                    Tjiose years in his life which he spent in Indiana—from seven to
                    twenty-one—which ordinarily make a period in the life of most men of
                    momentous importance, have been more or less neglected. To undertake at this
                    late day the task of correcting the perspective of the 
                        Lincoln
                     admirers by focusing the attention upon his youth is an exceedingly
                    difficult one, and ordinarily would prove discouraging, but since it is believed
                    that sufficient data is at hand to substantiate the claim, the task has been
                    undertaken with a view at least of supplementing the work of recognized
                    authorities in this field, as well as rendering tardy justice to 
                        Lincoln
                    's youth.
            It is to be regretted that some of the earlier biographers of Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                     did not make a greater effort to collect information touching his
                    youth, since the field was at that time white unto harvest; particularly soon
                    after the death of the President, at which time some two or three biographers
                    came to visit the scenes of Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                    's boyhood and young manhood in 
                        Spencer
                     county, Indiana. Some of the more recent writers met with
                    experiences well calculated to discourage further effort in this field, since
                    they possessed erroneous notions of Hoosier manners and customs. In consequence
                    of this handicap some very amusing, not to say ludicrous, things transpired
                    during attempted interviews with certain ones of 
                        Lincoln
                    's old associates. Many of the historians in speaking of
                    the citizens now residing in the region where Gentryville is located, regarded
                    them as quite below the average; characterizing them as
                    "listless", "poor", "free and
                    easy", "devoid of ambition", and reference has been
                    made to the "antiquated business methods",
                    "dog-fennel streets" and with many other such statements they
                    seem to pay a tribute to the wisdom and foresight of the Lincolns in having the
                    good sense to leave  that region, since the
                    country and its inhabitants at the present time do not meet with their
                    approbation.
            That there is apparent justification for such a characterization of both the
                    inhabitants of that section today, as well as the region itself, is quite true,
                    and perhaps this would more especially appear so to strangers, although it may
                    be permissible to suggest that these allegations are particularly in bad taste
                    relative to the country itself, since they were made by those who happen to
                    reside in that section of the 
                        United States
                     where abandoned farms are the rule, whereas there are few abandoned
                    farms in 
                        Spencer
                     county, Indiana. Appearances are often woefully deceptive, and it
                    is believed that a better knowledge of Hoosier manners and customs, particularly
                    among the pioneers, would in itself serve a splendid corrective in certain
                    things.
            It may be true that Gentryville and 
                        Lincoln
                     City are "dog-fennel towns", yet there are
                    several hundreds like them in Indiana. Gentryville is much the same place that
                    it was during the boyhood of 
                        Lincoln
                    . One may still see the Saturday group of loungers seated on dry
                    goods boxes, whittling and chewing favorite brands of tobacco, and
                    "swapping yarns", from which point of vantage they gaze
                    betimes down the little streets to the barren knolls in the distance. The scene
                    is common and to be met with not only in this section of the State of Indiana,
                    but in certain portions of 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    . Such scenes are not particularly inspiring, and are not calculated
                    to impress a visiting stranger with the belief that from such an environment
                    there would come forth any youth who could by any possibility rise to fame; yet,
                    nevertheless, just such places have produced, and may yet be destined to
                    produce, some of our most eminent men. Some two or three incidents and
                    circumstances are here related that occurred within the 
                        Lincoln
                     zone, all of them of comparatively recent date and coming under the
                    personal observation of the writer.
            A man with long gray locks, somewhat loose and disheveled, was seated in the
                    witness chair in the circuit court. It was during the month of January, and the
                    weather was cold. He wore a pair of "eastern" boots whose
                    heels had a predilection for rolling over and upward as if in sport of one  another. His "foxed"
                    trousers were baggy and tattered, and whether the bottoms were too badly worn
                    for service or whether it was merely a habit of the owner, no matter; in any
                    case they were crowded down into the boot tops. A faded brown hand-me-down
                    overcoat, held to its moorings by a bit of binder-twine looped through the torn
                    buttonhole and about the button, served to keep out the cold, this being the
                    only outer garment worn over a shirt not too immaculate. On his knees rested a
                    somewhat dilapidated hickory-straw hat, with the preponderance of evidence in
                    favor of its having done service for at least two summers and certainly until
                    far into mid-winter.
            An attorney (now holding a government position of national importance) from a
                    distance, with evident preconceived notions concerning the old gentleman, was
                    cross-examining the witness.
            "Mr. Witness, can you read and write?"
            "No, sir."
            "You spoke of the payment of taxes" (resting his eyes for a
                    moment upon the boots). "Do you own property?"
            "Well, yes, sir."
            "Now then, just state to the jury what your holdings consist of, whether
                    real estate, etc., etc."
            "Well," began the witness, looking down as if greatly
                    embarrassed, "well, I own a leetle land in this county and some in the
                    county a-jinen."
            "You own a little land, you say, in this and the adjoining
                    county?" (Another glance at the boots, which on taking its leave swept
                    past the straw hat and then fixed itself steadfastly upon the apparently
                    disconcerted face of the witness.)
            "Now, sir, just tell the jury about how much land you own."
            "Well," still looking down, "well, sir, I've
                    got a leetle the rise of three thousand acres here in this county, and some time
                    back I got hold of a leetle jag of money, and not havin' any place jest
                    then to put it, I bought a few hundred acres over in tother county. Besides what
                    leetle land I own, and a few hundred head of cattle, horses and sheep,
                    I've off and on ever now and then been loanin' a leetle money
                    an' ginerally took  mortgages on
                    land, so I've got plasters you might say, mountin' to nigh on
                    to right about $30,000 or better, and I've Rot
                    government"—
            "That will do, Mr. Witness, that will do."
            The witness here referred to was about the same age as 
                        Lincoln
                     and lived but a few miles from Gentryville. The writer was present
                    on the occasion referred to, and remembers the chagrin and crestfallen air
                    depicted upon the countenance of the imported attorney, and furthermore he
                    recalls the apologetic remarks subsequently made by the attorney, he being more
                    especially induced to do this on learning that the witness was not only a fine
                    type of old fashioned honesty and truthfulness, but was the wealthiest man in
                    the county.
            The old gentleman was not a miser nor yet miserly. He merely continued the habits
                    and customs of the pioneer days. His dress as above described, which is not in
                    the least exaggerated, was subject to a marked change on Sunday; that is to say,
                    the soiled linen was replaced by a garment destined to do duty until the next
                    Sabbath. With slight variation in the matter of dress—on the whole
                    somewhat better—but in all other points essentially the same, the
                    foregoing description would be that of the father of a man born in this region
                    during the Civil war, who today occupies a chair in one of the great
                    universities of our country.
            A case was being tried in the Federal court. A number of witnesses were
                    subpoenaed, among them being an elderly man with a snow-white crescent
                    encircling his chin. His shoes, originally black, were now brown. He wore no
                    such conventional apparel as a collar or necktie, and his clothing otherwise was
                    not at all pretentious. He had spent most of his life in the school room, and
                    was quite generally addressed by all classes of citizens in this 
                        Lincoln
                     country as "Professor," and being well known to
                    the officer of the court he very naturally in calling the witness thus addressed
                    him. An attorney, thinking to make capital out of this circumstance, especially
                    since he noted the character of his dress, began his examination of the witness
                    by requesting to know why he was called "professor."
            
            "I do not know, sir, why I am thus so regarded and so addressed, for I
                    make no claim whatever to that honorable title. It is true that I have been a
                    teacher for some time, in fact nearly all my life; but I do not suppose that I
                    am at all entitled to such consideration."
            The attorney, not yet satisfied, pursued the matter further.
            "Well, professor, you are a graduate of course, and can doubtless read
                    Latin." (not at all supposing that the witness was a graduate nor
                    possessing such knowledge as the question implied.)
            "Yes, sir," replied the professor, "Yes, sir, I am a
                    graduate of our State University, and in obedience to your desire to know
                    whether I possess ability sufficient to enable me to read Latin I should say
                    that in addition to my mother tongue I speak French and German rather fluently,
                    Spanish only indifferently well, but I read Hebrew, Latin, Sanscrit and Greek
                    quite well. Indeed, I have even been told by those who have manifested a decided
                    partiality for me that I could have been a linguist had I taken up this study,
                    say at your time of life, but I attribute this great claim of my friends to some
                    little acts of kindness which I have rendered them from time to time through a
                    somewhat lengthened life, rather than to any real excellence that I may
                    possess."
            It was within a half dozen miles of Gentryville that a stranger was impertinent
                    enough to ask an old Hoosier who had an extraordinarily large-sized nose:
                    "How does it happen that you have such a big nose?"
            "I kept it out of other people's business, sir, and let it get
                    its growth."
            As an aid to credulity and at the same time serving in part at least as a fair
                    excuse for the treatment here offered, it may be stated that the writer was born
                    among and reared with later generations of the Lincolns.
            It does not appear to be generally known that all three sons of the elder Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , grandfather of the President, eventually emigrated to Indiana. The
                    first to come was Josiah, the second son, who settled on Big Blue river, in 
                        Harrison
                     county, Indiana. This was in the year 1812. To  this wilderness home came Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                    , father of the President, on a visit, and in part at least his
                    removal from 
                        Kentucky
                     to Indiana a little later, in the year 1816, was due to the
                    persuasions of his brother, Josiah. His reasons for leaving 
                        Kentucky
                     are given elsewhere in this narrative, but on deciding to leave 
                        Kentucky
                     he was induced by his brother to try his fortunes in the new State
                    north of the 
                        Ohio
                     river.
            The writer's forbears came up from the South to this section of Indiana,
                    also settling in 
                        Harrison
                     county, and were neighbors to Josiah 
                        Lincoln
                    . Thus the writer grew to manhood with the descendants of the uncle
                    of the President.
            Later the writer resided for some years in that region where the future President
                    spent his childhood and boyhood, and attained his majority. Here he personally
                    knew a number of Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                    's boyhood and girlhood friends and associates. Repeated
                    interviews were obtained with these pioneers, some of whom up to that time had
                    never so much as been interviewed by a newspaper reporter, much less by any of
                    the biographers of Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                    . It may be said, however, that this latter statement, apparently
                    incredible, is to some extent accounted for by reason of the fact that these in
                    particular had removed from the 
                        Spencer
                     county home to other points in the State, and in one or two
                    instances to other States.
            Some of these boyhood friends of 
                        Lincoln
                     here referred to were parishioners of the writer or were members of
                    his congregation, and in a few instances he officiated at their funerals and the
                    funerals of members of their families.
            It is believed that much confirmatory information was obtained from quite a
                    number of the older citizens, who, while being mere children during the
                    residence of the Lincolns in 
                        Spencer
                     county, yet being children of the neighbors of the Lincolns and
                    accustomed to hear the fireside discussions concerning the great President,
                    especially after his rise to fame, what they related was in certain instances
                    quite as valuable and trustworthy, and perhaps in an instance or two even more
                    so, than was that offered by some who spoke from personal knowledge.
            With no well-defined purpose of ever making any use of  the data obtained, beyond personal gratification,
                    having been reared a Democrat in the belief that Douglas was transcend-ently
                    great as compared to 
                        Lincoln
                    , and having had a gradual political "conversion"
                    my interest in 
                        Lincoln
                     grew accordingly. Much time was thus pleasantly spent in
                    interviewing those who either personally knew 
                        Lincoln
                     as a boy, or those who were mere children during his stay in
                    Indiana, or those who were born about the time of his leaving the State in the
                    year 1830.
            Considerable care has been exercised to distinguish between matter of fact truth
                    and mere tradition. Of this latter there was considerable and occasionally there
                    was an intermingling af fact and tradition. The traditions in every case came
                    but little short of well established facts, and some of these were quite as
                    interesting and suggestive as any statement based upon personal knowledge.
            The mooted question as to the President's maternal ancestry was
                    altogether in favor of the position taken by almost all of his earlier
                    biographers, particularly by Herndon. With no desire whatever of attempting to
                    reopen a discussion that appears to be closed, a statement or two is made. In
                    every case when 
                        Lincoln
                    's pioneer neighbors were asked as to the obscure origin of
                    Nancy Hanks, the reply was invariably the same—that she was the
                    daughter of Lucy Hanks, and a Virginian.
            On one occasion after the writer had delivered a lecture on 
                        Lincoln
                     in the region where the President had lived as a boy, and having
                    some of 
                        Lincoln
                    's old friends in the audience, he was approached by a
                    rather elderly lady who requested an interview on the following day. This was
                    gladly granted. After some questions as to what "the books said
                    concerning the origin of Nancy Hanks," the following statement was
                    made: 
                        I am the daughter of a woman who was about the same age as 
                                Lincoln
                             and lived neighbors to the Lincolns both in 
                                Kentucky
                             and in Indiaua. My grandmother and Nancy Hanks were girl
                            friends, and my grandmother often told me that she was present at the
                            birth of President 
                                Lincoln
                            . I've heard both my mother and grandmother tell
                            many incidents concerning Nancy Hanks and the Lincolns and Abraham in
                            particular. As to Nancy Hanks' origin I've heard my
                            grandmother say again  and again
                            that 
                                Lincoln
                            's mother was a fine lady and wasn't to be
                            blamed for some things; that she was the daughter of Lucy Hanks and some
                            unknown man in 
                                Virginia
                            . My mother said that was what the older people told her,
                            and no one ever said anything to the contrary.
                    
            
            Inquiry was made as to the reliability of the testimony offered, and it not only
                    appeared abundantly trustworthy, but was corroborated by the statement of
                    others. In no case among the pioneers was there a disposition to accept any
                    other story relative to the origin of 
                        Lincoln
                    's mother. That Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                     himself held to this belief concerning his mother is certainly
                    true. Herndon, Life of 
                            Lincoln
                        
                states: 
                        Beyond the fact that he (
                                Lincoln
                            ) was born on the 12th day of February, 1809, in Hardin
                            county. 
                                Kentucky
                            , Mr. 
                                Lincoln
                             usually had but little to say of himself, the lives of his
                            parents, or the history of tlio family before their removal to Indiana.
                            If he mentioned the subject at all it was with great reluctance and
                            significant reserve. There was something about his origin he never cared
                            to dwell niwii.
                    
            
            Herndon further asserts that on one occasion while he and 
                        Lincoln
                     were driving across the prairie in a buggy the statement was made
                    to Herndon by 
                        Lincoln
                     that his mother, Nancy Hanks, was the daughter of Lucy Hanks and a
                    well-bred but obscure 
                        Virginia
                     planter or farmer. He argued that from this last source came his
                    power of analysis, his logic, his mental activity, his ambition and all the
                    qualities that distinguished him from the other members and descendants of the
                    Hanks family.
            A biography of 
                        Lincoln
                     was prepared by Mr. Scripps for campaign purposes. 
                        Lincoln
                     was asked to submit data for this, which he rather reluctantly did.
                    In a letter to Herndon after 
                        Lincoln
                    's death Scripps stated: 
                        He (Lincoln) communicated some facts to me concerning his ancestry which
                            he did not wish to have published then, and which I have never spoken of
                            or alluded to before.
                    
            
            What these facts were we of course do not know, but presumably they must have had
                    to do with this obscurity. Dennis Hanks, a son of Nancy Hanks, aunt of the
                    mother of 
                        Lincoln
                    , was ever insistent that the mother of President 
                        Lincoln
                     was named Sparrow instead of Hanks. Certain it is  that both she and Dennis Hanks were for a time in
                    the home of the Sparrows, who, after the marriage of Nancy to Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     and her removal to Indiana, also removed to that State, taking the
                    irrepressible Dennis with them. It was these Sparrows who occupied the
                    half-faced camp abandoned by the Lincolns, and when seized with milk-sick were
                    removed to the 
                        Lincoln
                     cabin and both died there. Their deaths took place at the same time
                    as that of 
                        Lincoln
                    's mother.
            It is passing strange that these pioneers should all be of one mind concerning
                    the obscure origin of Nancy Hanks if there was no foundation for such belief.
            However reliable may be the statements of discoveries made by Mrs. Hitchcock, a
                    descendant of the Hanks family, relative to the origin of the
                    President's mother, there never was, and is not now, just ground for
                    any accusation against these pioneer neighbors of the Lincolns for entertaining
                    and freely expressing the belief, since it was indisputably credited by her
                    illustrious son, and by the elder Hankses and others whose testimony is a matter
                    of record.
            MANNERS AND CUSTOMS OF THE
                        HOOSIER PIONEERS.
            
                    "Quarrel not at all. Yield larger tilings to which you
                        can ahow no more than equal right; and yield lesser ones though clearly your
                        own. Better give your path to a dog than be bitten by him in contending for
                        the right. Even killing the dog would not cure the bite."
                
            A proper understanding of the manners and customs of the pioneers of 
                        Lincoln
                    's youth and young manhood is essential to appreciate some
                    qualities of his mind and peculiarities of belief and practice which appeared
                    when later he was associated with the learned and skillfully trained statesman
                    and politicians, who were for the most part reared under an altogether different
                    environment. The pioneer was more or less given to superstitious beliefs and
                    committed to the trustworthiness of tokens and dreams. While this characterized
                    substantially all classes during the formative period of our country, yet these
                    strange and weird beliefs in particular 
                    found a congenial abiding place in the minds of the pioneers who came from the
                    South and settled in this wilderness. Indeed, the belief in the efficacy of
                    tokens and dreams, and the faithfulness and almost religious zeal with which
                    signs have been observed have ever characterized the frontier line.
            These strange beliefs inevitably begot still stranger customs. This was
                    especially true of the people in and about Gentryville. If in this section there
                    may yet be found some of those strange beliefs still lingering among those of
                    that earlier period, it need not be regarded as strange, since in other
                    centuries the will of the Almighty was determined by the presence or absence of
                    dew upon a sheep's pelt, and kingdoms were lost or won by the casting
                    of lots. It may well be doubted whether there is not yet clinging to most of us,
                    like barnacles upon a ship's hull, some of the age-long beliefs of our
                    fathers. While we are living with the light beating full upon our faces, yet
                    there is discerned in some an indication that these fireside memories and
                    nursery teachings of that dim and distant past so possess us as to lead to the
                    conclusion that it would not at all be difficult to revert to the practices and
                    beliefs of other years. Bishop Matthew Simpson, one of the greatest forensic
                    orators of his time, and an educator of national prominence, himself a pioneer
                    and a great friend and confidential adviser of 
                        Lincoln
                    , ever felt a strange and unaccountable pleasure and delight on
                    seeing the new moon over his left shoulder. A certain 
                        United States
                     senator from 
                        Lincoln
                    's boyhood state on more than one occasion in the midst of
                    political campaigns refused to ride in a carriage drawn by black horses.
            Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     was so indoctrinated with many of these beliefs during his youth
                    that they clung to him until the day of his death. He always believed in the
                    trustworthiness of dreams, one of which in particular was viewed as a good omen,
                    because he dreamed it prior to the victories of Antie-tam, Vicksburg, 
                        Gettysburg
                    , the naval battle between the Monitor and the Merrimac, as well as
                    just before the surrender at Appomattox. This dream and others he with a strange
                    simplicity related to cabinets, and doubtless in the very simplicity of his
                    belief failed to realize that these gentlemen  viewed such as exceptional, if not indicating a decided weakness.
            Advantage is taken of the opportunity here of calling attention to a fact not
                    especially enlarged upon by any, yet which is patent and known to all; that is,
                    we do not take liberties with 
                        Lincoln
                     as we do with many other great men. We laugh with him, but we do
                    not suffer any criticism of him without registering a vigorous protest. This is
                    not even true of 
                        Washington
                    .
            To the pioneer in 
                        Lincoln
                    's day the carrying of an edged tool, such as a hoe or ax,
                    through the house was an omen of bad luck, foretelling a death in the family
                    during the year. The breaking of a mirror was also another sign of death within
                    that period. The plaintive howling of a dog meant that the morrow would tell of
                    a death somewhere. The crossing of the hunter's path by a dog meant bad
                    luck in the chase unless the hunter locked his little fingers until the dog was
                    out of sight; or, what was regarded as better still, if he returned to the point
                    of starting and began his journey anew, all ill fortune occasioned by the bad
                    start would not be reckoned against him. The writer has frequently witnessed
                    these circumstances.
            Friday was a day in the calendar to be avoided in instituting any new departure;
                    that is to say, beginning anything new such as plowing, sowing or reaping in the
                    fields, or the making of a garment, unless the labor could be completetd during
                    the day. A bird alighting on the window or coming into the house was a sure sign
                    of sorrow. All planting, sowing, fencing and preparation for the same was to be
                    governed by certain signs of the moon. Plants, such as potatoes, maturing
                    beneath the surface of the soil must be planted in the dark of the moon. And in
                    like manner tomatoes and beans must be planted in the light of the moon.
            Clapboards on the roofs of buildings would cup and curl if the sign was not
                    right. The fence would settle and sink or creel if there was a failure to
                    consult the almanac for the proper sign. They believed in witches of various
                    sorts, quite as much as they of New 
                        England
                     ever did. Although there was no disposition to burn them, they were
                    feared and  guarded against. They especially
                    believed that some evil-disposed old witch could work evil upon a child.
            The writer has a distinct child's recollection of being caught up from
                    his innocent play into the arms of a frightened lady and hurriedly carried away
                    to a point of supposed safety from a reputed old witch who it was presumed was
                    working her spell over him preparatory to actually bewitching him. It is not
                    believed that this old witch in reality succeeded in her efforts at this time or
                    at any subsequent period, but the writer frankly confesses that while he escaped
                    all of the influences and beliefs so generally prevalent in his youth,
                    nevertheless he finds more satisfaction and contentedness than do some if there
                    is never a hoe or an ax carried through his house. Truly the beliefs of our
                    grandmothers live after them.
            Although there was no physician nearer than thirty miles to the 
                        Lincoln
                     home, yet this settlement had a "Doctor" of a
                    doubtful sort, one "Cy" (Josiah) 
                        Crawford
                    , for whom 
                        Lincoln
                     and his sister Sarah often labored as "hired man and
                    girl." "Cy," or "Old Blue Nose" 
                        Crawford
                     as 
                        Lincoln
                     later named him, was what was usually spoken of as a "yarb
                    and root" doctor. As a diagnostician he doubtless did not excel, but it
                    was small matter since his prescriptions were few and generally harmless, even
                    if sometimes unpleasant to take. If there was evidence of inflamation,
                    "a counter-irritant was slapped on," and generally "a
                    heroic old fashioned Baptist foot washing," was urged just before the
                    hour of retiring. Blue mass pills were used on the least provocation, although
                    if these were not to be had a substitute was suggested. The writer recalls one
                    instance when "shoemaker's wax" was in an emergency
                    made into plaster and the patient lived to praise his saviour, if not his remedy
                    in his effort to remove the same. 
                        Crawford
                    , in lieu of there not being even a traveling dentist, was an
                    extractor of teeth. Heroic methods were used for a time, but his services being
                    so much in demand he obtained a "twister" pair of forceps, and
                    thereafter the surgery was more scientifically performed. A conversation with
                    some who sat under his "prying, twisting and gouging" revealed
                    the fact that laughing gas would have been more than welcomed.
            
            Since bleeding was quite generally practiced in that day by reputable physicians, 
                        Crawford
                    , always abreast with the times, obtained a lancet and thus added
                    this accomplishment to his practice. Generally speaking, every settlement had a
                    man or woman who could stop bleeding in cases where a vein or artery had been
                    severed, without resorting to the barbarous practice of ligating or cauterizing.
                    This was done by pronouncing certain cabalistic words. The secret of possessing
                    such power was on no account to be conveyed to another unless under proper
                    direction and orderly procedure. A man was forbidden, on penalty of losing his
                    skill, to convey to his brother the secret, but he might with perfect safety
                    admit a woman into the secret, and she in turn could with equal safety initiate
                    a man. At the perilous risk of losing forever whatever cunning and skill the
                    writer may possess in this regard, he dares here to put it to a test by
                    indiscriminately publishing the secret. It will be at once apparent that this
                    conveyance is only possible to ladies. The remedy is simplicity itself, and
                    consists in thrice repeating the sixth verse of the sixteenth chapter of the
                    Prophecy of Ezekiel.
            Faith doctors were implicitly believed in. Long journeys were made to them, their
                    charms invoked and their skill put to a test. In substantially every case these
                    men behaved something after the manner that Captain Naaman supposed the prophet
                    Elisha would have done in his case. They refused to make any charge for services
                    rendered, but if exceedingly provoked by some who were the beneficiaries of
                    their healing powers, they suffered them, on taking their departure, to leave a
                    token of their appreciation as a thank offering.
            There was a commendable reciprocity of neighborliness prevailing among the
                    pioneers. Much of their work was shared in common, particularly such as
                    raisings, huskings and rollings. Associated with these labors by the men, which
                    may not inappropriately be styled field sports, the women of the entire
                    neighborhood assembled to prepare the sumptuous feasts consisting of venison,
                    turkey, pigeon potpie, hominy and corn-dodger.
            Spinning contests were indulged in and the hand-made loom was much in vogue, and
                    if there chanced to be the finishing  of a
                    blanket or coverlet, or in some instances a quilt, all the young
                    ladies—and some not so young—-would surround this, holding
                    on with both hands, while some one from the crowd of men who were interested
                    onlookers would throw puss, the now thoroughly frightened house cat, into the
                    bagging center. Well might there be manifest interest, for who could tell which
                    way a cat might jump under'such circumstances and thus indicate the
                    next bride?
            Play parties and dancing (hoe-downs) were much in favor, and the mere
                    announcement of a neighbrhood wedding meant an invitation for all to attend who
                    cared to do so. Spelling matches were held every Friday night during the school
                    term, and schoolhouse debates invariably attracted large crowds. Old time school
                    exhibitions, where dialogues were recited and "pieces"
                    declaimed, were frequent. Sometimes these were weeks in preparation and the
                    program so lengthy as to last half the night. Religious services prior to 1820
                    were conducted in private homes, usually by some chance itinerant preacher. 
                        Lincoln
                     never saw a church until he was eleven years of age, and he helped
                    in its erection.
            The dress of the pioneer would appear quite as strange to us as some of the
                    modern fashions would have been to him. No woolens were worn in and about
                    Gentryville until the year 1824. Buckskin breeches, sewed with whang, thus
                    making an ornamental fringe, a loose-fitting blouse, and a coonskin cap with the
                    tail hanging down was the usual garb of the men. This was 
                        Lincoln
                    's dress during his entire Indiana residence, save that he
                    managed in some manner to get possession of a white shirt a short while before
                    his removal to 
                        Illinois
                    .
            In all of these farm and community labors, social gatherings, exhibitions and
                    religious worship 
                        Lincoln
                     was a familiar figure. He particularly enjoyed the schoolhouse
                    debates and exhibitions. The 
                  
                            Kentucky
                         Preceptor furnished the major portion of the declamations,
                    as well as subjects or themes for debate. Some of these latter which were
                    debated by young 
                        Lincoln
                     and others were: "Resolved, That fire is
                    more destructive than water." "Who has the greater right to
                    complain, the negro or the Indian?" Such themes were very gravely
                    discussed not only by the younger generation, but by the older  men as well. It is said that young 
                        Lincoln
                     in these debates was calm, logical and clear. He, however, often
                    became quite humorous, causing great laughter by his peculiar antics and
                    original remarks, but his aim appeared to be to cause his side to win. At such
                    times two captains stood forth in the presence of the assembled crowd in
                    obedience to the demand of the society and proceeded to "choose
                    up." A stick some three feet in length, often a walking cane, was
                    tossed into the air by one of the captains, the other captain catching it in one
                    hand, and the first in turn grasping it. They placed their hands alternately in
                    position until one became the possessor of the stick. This was repeated three
                    times, the two best out of three deciding first choice of a debater or the side
                    of the argument—depending upon the original agreement. After the
                    house had been divided, the "jury" was selected by the
                    president, usually from three to five members. Sometimes ladies were privileged
                    to sit as judges. It will be seen that 
                        Lincoln
                    's method in debate was such as to win "the
                    jury."
            One of his old friends, Nathaniel Griggsby, usually called
                    "Natty", although 
                        Lincoln
                     called him "Nat", said that when 
                        Lincoln
                     appeared in company 
                        the boys would gather and cluster around him to hear him talk. He was
                            figurative In his speeches, talks and conversations. He argued much from
                            analogy, and explained things, hard for us to understand, by stories.
                            maxims, tales and figures. He would point out his lessons or ideas by
                            some story that was plain and near to us in order that we might
                            instantly see the force and bearing of what he said.
                    
            
            Young 
                        Lincoln
                     was a great mimic, entertaining and amusing crowds quite as much in
                    this manner as in any other. The humor of any situation or a mirthful and
                    ludicrous turn seemed to criss-cross with smiles his face, which even at that
                    time his associates alleged was "shrivelled and wrinkled". His
                    smiles and laughter spread in humorous confusion over his countenance long
                    before the vehicle of speech had presented the object or subject of his humor to
                    his auditors.
            In his reading he devoured anything and everything that came in his way, never
                    stopping to inquire what it was so long as it furnished his active mind
                    something on which to labor. In like manner the subjects of his mimicry were as
                    varied as occasion might offer, ranging from peculiarities in gait or  speech of a neighbor or passing stranger to
                    the pulpit efforts of the backwoods, hard-shell Baptist preacher. He was much in
                    the habit of repeating the Sunday sermon to the men and boys in the field on
                    Monday. If perchance he made a rare find, and his Monday audience appeared to
                    appreciate his efforts, he repaired to the Gentryville store at night after the
                    days' labor was done, and there repeated it, embellishing, revising and
                    enlarging as occasion seemed to warrant.
            The Little Pigeon Baptist meeting house was erected in the year 1820. The elder 
                        Lincoln
                     was the boss carpenter, superintending its erection, and, while
                    Abraham was but eleven years of age at this time, it is said that he assisted in
                    felling the trees out of which the building material was obtained. This church
                    was a story and a half high, and, while its proportions were not
                    great,—being twenty-six by thirty feet,—for that period it
                    made a rather pretentious house of worship. It had two windows, each twenty by
                    thirty-six inches, and was heated in extreme weather by means of two
                    old-fashioned fireplaces, there being two mud and stick chimneys, one at either
                    end of the building.
            The church was more or less regularly served by pastors duly called, but there
                    were long intervals when the little congregation was largely dependent upon
                    "local" ministers or some chance ministerial visitor. The
                    regular ministry, while more or less helpful, was in the main but little beyond
                    the major portion of their parishioners intellectually. Since most of them were
                    illiterate, and some of them painfully so and much given to certain pulpit
                    mannerisms, they afforded the critical student of human nature, young 
                        Lincoln
                    , a fine field for the free play of his powers of mimicry, and his
                    mirth-provoking efforts at preaching were such as indelibly to fix these in the
                    memory of his boyhood associates many years afterward.
            Matilda 
                        Johnson
                    , his step-sister, said "he was an indefatigable
                    preacher". It was his usual custom when his father and mother went to
                    church and he and other members of the family remained at home to take down the
                    Bible, read a verse, give out a hymn, and after this had been rendered he
                    proceeded to "preach" a sermon. On one occasion when in the
                         midst of a sermon-lecture in the grove
                    near the cabin, John 
                        Johnson
                    , his step-brother, and others who had doubtless heard the Sunday
                    morning sermon out in the fields during the week, came up with a land terrapin
                    which they had picked up in their morning rambles along the creek, and desiring
                    to witness the quick but clumsy movement of the creature, placed a coal of fire
                    on its back. Young 
                        Lincoln
                     remonstrated, but in the midst of the fun occasioned by the frantic
                    efforts of the fire-bearing creature to escape its tormentors 
                        Johnson
                     picked it up and hurled it against a tree, breaking its shell. As
                    it lay quivering and dying the preacher quickly adapted himself to his audience
                    and began an exhortation on "Cruelty to Animals", saying among
                    other things that "an ant's life is just as sweet to it as our
                    lives are to us."
            Young 
                        Lincoln
                     was in the habit of delivering the Sunday sermon to his stepmother
                    when for any cause she was not privileged to attend worship. The entire family
                    would sit and listen to 
                        Lincoln
                    , who would not only repeat the sermon, but the text, and in almost
                    every way reproduce the morning effort, even to the amen. Mrs. 
                        Lincoln
                     greatly enjoyed these reports and professed to think that she
                    derived more benefit from Abe's sermonizing than she did from the
                    minister himself.
            The 
                        Lincoln
                     home was the stopping place for the ministers. This furnished such
                    an opportunity for 
                        Lincoln
                     to argue that he invariably availed himself of it. On one occasion
                    he had "cornered" an illiterate preacher on some point in the
                    story of Jonah, and in the midst of his confusion 
                        Lincoln
                     suddenly asked him who was the father of Zebedee's
                    children. The pastor confessed that he did not know. This Zebedee witticism was
                    one of 
                        Lincoln
                    's earliest attempts, although the first recorded humorous
                    effort was when going to mill and witnessing the slow grinding of the old horse
                    mill, he remarked that "his hound pup could eat all the meal it would
                    grind in a day and then bawl for his supper."
            It was in the pulpit of this Little Pigeon Baptist meeting house, Mr. Herndon
                    states, that young 
                        Lincoln
                     witnessed an amusing incident which befell one of these transient
                    preachers, an incident that 
                        Lincoln
                     in later years frequently related, and is as follows:
            
            
                    The meeting house was located in the woods a mile and a half from our home
                        and some distance from any other residence. Regular services were held only
                        once each mouth. The preacher on this occasion was an old-line Baptist, and
                        was dressed in coarse linen pantaloons and shin of the same material. The
                        trousers were manufactured after the old fashioned style, with baggy legs
                        and flaps in front, commonly spoken of as "barn doors",
                        which were made to attach to the frame without the aid of susj>enders. A
                        single button held his shirt in position, and that was at the collar. He
                        arose in the imlpit and in a loud voice announced his text: "I am
                        the Christ whom I shall represent today." About this time a little
                        blue lizard ran up underneath his roomy pantaloons, and the old preacher not
                        wishing to interrupt the steady flow of his sermon slapped away on his legs,
                        expecting to arrest the intruder, but his efforts were unavailing and the
                        little fellow kept ascending higher and higher. Continuing the sermon the
                        preacher slyly loosened the button which held the waistband of his
                        pantaloons, and with a kick off came the easy fitting garment. Meanwhile Mr.
                        Lizard had passed the equatorial line and was exploring the part of the
                        preacher's anatomy which lay underneath the back of his shirt.
                        Things by this time were growing interesting, but the sermon kept grinding
                        on. The next movement on the part of the preacher was for the collar button,
                        and with one sweep of his arm off came the tow linen shirt. The congregation
                        sat for an instant as if dazed. At length one old sister in the rear of the
                        room rose up and glancing at the excited object in. the pulpit shouted at
                        the top of her voice: "If you represent Christ, then I am done with
                        the Bible."
                
            On another occasion a traveling minister happened in the settlement one Sunday
                    morning and was invited to preach. It appears that his pulpit mannerisms,
                    gestures and platform eccentricities; were quite out of the ordinary. He had the
                    habit among other things of rolling his eyes not unlike the old-time colored
                    preacher, and when he warmed up to his theme he pounded the Bible and the hymn
                    book mercilessly, accompanied by certain pauses that might have been eloquent
                    but for the fact that the speaker's zeal got the better of his
                    judgment, for just at this juncture he introduced sundry groans and windy
                    suspirations which no doubt he supposed would greatly aid in fastening the word
                    as a nail in a sure place. In addition to the foregoing the preacher possessed
                    an unfortunate physical defect, perhaps acquired, which was so characteristic of
                    not a few public speakers. He had a mingled sybillant sonorous nazal twang which
                    he pitched into that peculiar key in rendering his sing-song address.
            Lincoln was present on this occasion, as were many others  of his age, and some of these boyhood friends of
                    Lincoln, among whom was Nat Griggsby, related that young Lincoln again and again
                    repeated this sermon to the farm hands and the group of loungers at the
                    Gentryville store, and so faithful was the presentation not only in words, but
                    in pulpit mannerisms—the rolling of the eyes, pounding of the Bible,
                    and the nazal twang—that it was the judgment of those who heard
                    Lincoln's effort, as well as the original presentation, that it was
                    impossible to tell wherein the one differed from the other.
            It will become at once apparent from some of the foregoing incidents that there
                    never was any justification for the position taken by some of Mr.
                    Lincoln's biographers in assuming, as they did, that he was inclined to
                    make sport of the church or religion as such. The attitude assumed by some of
                    his biographers was not only based upon this habit of Lincoln in repeating the
                    Sunday sermon, but upon some poetic effusions composed "in Bible
                    language", usually after the manner and style of the ancient
                    Chronicles, wherein he caricatured "Sister 
                        Gibson
                     and Brother 
                        Gibson
                    ", members of the Little Pigeon church, who had been
                    derelict in duty and in consequence had been called upon to undergo the ordeal
                    of a church trial. After diligent inquiry touching Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                    's religious convictions, nothing whatever was found
                    indicating any tendency toward infidelity or atheism; certainly no semblance of
                    a disposition to criticise or lightly esteem the church or religion. This
                    position of his earlier biographers, who were themselves personally so inclined,
                    is absolutely without any foundation.
            When it is recalled that young 
                        Lincoln
                    's habit of mimicry and his subjects and objects of
                    caricature were promiscuous, there is small wonder that these crude efforts in
                    the pulpit were seized upon by him as quite the best for the exercise of his
                    powers, since this field was more inviting than any other that presented itself
                    and he very naturally availed himself of it.
            Being naturally more or less a comedian, and adapting himself to his audiences,
                    he gave way to buffoonery indiscriminately, making selection of anything
                    especially appealing  to him. He not only
                    mimicked the noisy traveling preacher who was much given to polemic discussion,
                    but was also in the habit of repeating any public address heard, whether on the
                    stump or before the bar. If the address appealed to him as being eloquent or
                    possessing any excellence in any other way, he brought into play his exceptional
                    powers of memory, repeating such portions with evident attempt at seriousness,
                    noting their effect, taking this opportunity to "hear his
                    voice", of which his associates maintained that he was especially vain.
                    Not that his vanity led him to suppose that his voice was musical or fitted for
                    public address beyond others, but his consuming ambition to become a public
                    speaker gave free play to his fancy, and in such boyish efforts he flattered
                    himself into the belief that he was preparing against the day when he could and
                    would take the stump in real earnest.
            He early manifested a desire to indulge himself in public address. If the school
                    exhibitions may be taken into account, his age was about eleven years when he
                    began on his own account. This disposition grew upon him through the years,
                    until by the time he had reached seventeen he was continually "on the
                    stump". His stepmother stated that after a few efforts before boys of
                    his age he at length ventured to try his powers before larger groups. He
                    particularly made choice "of the hands in the fields" until,
                    as she put it, "it soon became an amusing sight to see and hear him
                    make these speeches." She further confessed that her "husband
                    was forced to break it up with a strong hand", since it kept the men
                    from their work.
            There appear to be few such characters as Shakespeare, Burns and 
                        Lincoln
                     who, if left to dwell apart and follow the plow or make use of the
                    ax and maul, deprived of the privilege of a university or college, develop those
                    great faculties which nature has so abundantly endowed them with, and happily
                    reach their destined goal by a route, if circuitous and accompanied by exacting
                    and patient toil, is nevertheless apparently best suited to them.
            Perhaps if 
                        Lincoln
                     had been privileged to enjoy the curriculum of a great university,
                    we would doubtless have had a master mind so skilled and trained as to have
                    enabled him  to occupy a commanding and
                    enviable place in history, but it may well be doubted whether or not the very
                    discipline imposed by such a course of training would not have marred or
                    altogether lost to the world some of those rare qualities of mind and heart
                    which were so prominent in him and which above all else distinguishes him from
                    most great men of his time.
            Since 
                        Lincoln
                     was destined to rise by the sheer force of his own personality and
                    imperious will, and to develop the great qualities of mind in this almost
                    unbelievable manner, it was his good fortune to spend those years of strange
                    preparations among a simple-minded, yet honest and patriotic folk, hedged in by
                    a wilderness but freed thereby from those conventional restraints and hindrances
                    that older and more settled communities usually impose. At the same time he was
                    removed from the blighting effects of vice which, had he been subjected it,
                    might have prevented the maturing of a character, embodying all of the essential
                    basic elements of the plain people. 
                        Lincoln
                     did not, as some have supposed, live the cabin life in the 
                        White
                     House so much as he lived the 
                        White
                     House life in the cabin.
            Any attempt to analyze his character or in any measure seek to account for the
                    sustained, universal interest in him by substantially all classes of people, as
                    well as youth, and claimed by all political faiths, leads to the fact that in
                    him was embodied all of the essential and vital elements of manhood, as well as
                    the willingness and sincerity of purpose to give executive expression to the
                    wishes of the people. There is discerned in this universal admiration of 
                        Lincoln
                     not only an unconscious expression of resentment of such
                    encroachment, but an indication of an instinctive desire to throw off all mere
                    artificialities of life. We recognize that in him dwelt the fullness of the
                    simplicities of life to the extent that he became the apotheosis of the plain
                    people.
            Leonard Sweet, a political friend and associate of the great President, stated
                    that 
                        Lincoln
                     in speaking of his Indiana life always spoke of it as the story of
                    a happy childhood. There was nothing sad or pinched about it, and no allusion to
                    want in any part of it. His own description of his youth  was that of a happy, joyous boyhood. It was told
                    with mirth, illustrated by pointed anecdotes, and often interrupted by his
                    jocund laugh.
            If the Civil war crisis in our national life necessarily demanded a leader who
                    was the embodiment of all that the people themselves stood for or desired, then 
                        Providence
                     anticipated this by making choice of a youth without a
                    distinguished name, reared him in the seclusion of the wilderness, just as He
                    has almost all of His great leaders and when he appeared he so far met the high
                    expectations of the Almighty and received the gratitude and applause of mankind
                    that Major John Hay, his private secretary, voices the sentiment of many when he
                    said: 
                        "Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                             was the greatest character that has appeared iu tlie
                            history of the world since Jesus Christ."
                    
            
            
                    (To be continued)
                
         
         
         
            The Origin and Rise of the Republican Party in Indiana from 1854 to 1860
            By CHARLES ZIMMERMAN, A.M., Decker,
                    Ind.
            (Concluded)
            THE LECOMPTON STRUGGLE
            
            After the election, interest in Indiana was directed toward the meeting of the
                    next General Assembly. Should the Republicans follow the example set by the
                    Democrats in 1855 by refusing to go into a joint election ? It happened that the
                    State constitution does not lay down definitely the mode of electing a 
                        United States
                     senator. If the Republican senators should refuse to go into a
                    joint election there was no way of forcing them to do so. Holding this question
                    in mind, a Republican Editorial Convention was convened in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , January 6, 1857. The American editors were invited to meet in the
                    convention but they were asked to come as Republicans.1 At
                    this meeting it was resolved that since the "Old Line" Senate
                    of 1855 had refused to go into the election of a 
                        United States
                     senator the opposition in the present legislature should refuse to
                    go into any election except by separate Houses.2
            
            The next day, January 7, 1857, the State Republican convention met at 
                        Indianapolis
                     as a delegate convention for the purpose of effecting a more
                    permanent and efficient organization of the Republican party.3 0. P. Morton, the chairman, said that the Republican creed was plain,
                    being not to assail 
                  
                     1
                            Weekly State Journal, December 25, 1856.
                  
                     2
                            Weekly State Journal, January 8, 1857.
                  
                     3
                            Weekly State Journal, December 11, 1856; 
                                Wabash
                            
                            Weekly Intelligencer, December 17, 1856.
               
                     slavery where it already existed but to
                    meet it when it goes forth in conquest.4 H. S. Lane spoke of
                    the course pursued by the Democrats in the General Assembly of 1855 and hoped
                    that the Republicans would postpone the election of a 
                        United States
                     senator. He told the delegates to go home and proclaim it from the
                    housetops. The committee on resolutions reported that the Republicans of Indiana
                    were ready to stand upon the 
                        Philadelphia
                     platform of 1856 and that, following the Democratic precedent of
                    1855, the Republicans should not enter into a joint convention for the election
                    of a 
                        United States
                     senator, but should elect only by separate Houses. Thus the policy
                    of the Republican party on the election of a 
                        United States
                     senator was definitely laid down.5
            
            The Republican senators felt that they should prevent an election. Knowing that
                    the seats of Messrs. Bobbs of 
                        Marion
                     county, Rice of 
                        Rush
                     county, and Cooper of 
                        Fountain
                     county might be contested, giving the Democrats a majority in the
                    State senate if these men were ousted, the Republicans met and organized the
                    State senate before Lieutenant Governor Willard arrived. When Willard came he
                    said that he had intended to admit Bobbs and Rice. The senate was now regularly
                    organized and Mr. Cooper was voted in.6 On the second of
                    February, 1857, at two o'clock P. M. Lieutenant-Governor 
                        Hammond
                     announced that the time had come to go to the hall of the house in
                    accordance with a resolution of January 12. No motion of adjournment was made.
                    Out went the Democrats, but not the Republicans.7 Here
                    Graham W. Fitch was nominated to serve until March 4, 1861—23
                    Democratic senators and 60 Democratic representatives voting for him. The two
                    Fillmore Republicans voted for G. C. Dunn. Jesse D. Bright was elected to serve
                    until March 4, 1863. The Republicans claimed that these elections were not
                    legal, since the joint convention did not have a quorum of each House present
                    and since each House had not resolved to go into a joint convention.8
            
            The Democrats did not attempt to justify the election of 
                  
                     4
                            Weekly State Journal, January 15, 1867.
                  
                     5
                            Weekly State Journal, January 16, 1857.
                  
                     6
                            Weekly State Journal, January 15, 1857.
                  
                     7
                            Weekly State Journal, February 6, 1857.
                  
                     8
                            Weekly State Journal, February 12, 1857.
               
                Fitch and Bright as constitutionally
                    done. Editor Hicks of the 
                        Rockport
                    
                    Democrat said that the Know Nothings stole into power in 1854
                    while the people were asleep and, therefore, did not represent the will of the
                    people and that the action of th Democratic senate in 1855 represented the will
                    of the people, while in 1856 the Democrats had an overwhelming majority in a
                    fair election and were entitled to the two senators.9 The
                    New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Weekly Ledger said that it was unnecessary to attempt to
                    conceal the fact that the election was irregular and not in accordance with
                    general precedent, but justified the action on the ground that it was not just
                    to deprive Indiana of representation in the 
                        United States
                     senate.10
            
            While the Democratic senators were voting for Bright and Fitch in the
                    "sham" convention of February 2, 1857, the Republican senators
                    were expelling Mr. LeRoy Woods of 
                        Clark
                     county for holding two offices.11 This angered
                    the Democrats, who declared Woods must be seated or they would block
                        legislation.12 As a result the Revenue, Appraisement,
                    and Temperance bills were not passed.
            The State was now in an awkward position. Governor Willard was urged to call a
                    special session of the legislature, but refused, alleging that a deadlock would
                    occur over the Miller-Shyrock case from 
                        Fulton
                     county. Mr. Shyrock now proposed that both should "resign
                    and allow a new election" and to remain away from the proposed extra
                        session.13 This took away the excuse of Governor Willard
                    for not calling a special session, but he stood firm and refused to call it.
            Both parties blamed the other for "blocking legislation". The
                    Democrats claimed that "an accidental" control of the State
                    senate gave the Republicans the opportunity to "block the wheels of
                    State government" in order to embarrass the Democratic State
                        administration.14 Even if the Democratic senators were
                    wrong in supporting Woods and Miller the 
                  
                     9
                            
                                Rockport
                            
                            Weeklp Democrat, January 31, 1857.
                  
                     10 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Weekly Ledger, February 11, 1857. Bright and Fitch
                            were seated in the 
                                United States
                             Senate.
                  
                     11
                            Weekly State Journal, February 5, 1856. Woods had been
                            appointed moral instructor at the prison at $500 per year.
                  
                     12
                            Weekly State Journal, March 5, 1857.
                  
                     13
                            Weekly State Journal, April 30, 1857.
                  
                     14
                            State Sentinel, October 16, 1857.
               
                     party felt that it was the duty of the
                    Republican senate to pass the necessary bills.15
            
            As a result of the failure to pass the appropriation bill the hospital for the
                    insane and the institution for the blind were closed.16
                    Governor Willard was accused of saying that "the closing of the asylums
                    would be a good move, since it would drive the Republicans to instruct their
                    senators to give way to the Democrata".17 These
                    institutions remained closed until October, when Governor Willard ordered them
                        reopened.18 The reopening of the State institutions
                    raised the question as to the legality of using State money for this purpose
                    when none had been appropriated by the State legislature.19
            
            The Americans met in their State convention, February 17, 1857, at the Statehouse
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Not many were present. After speeches by R. W. Thompson, of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and 
                        Milton
                     Gregg the Committee on Resolutions reported a platform opposing all
                    interference with the institutions of any State, opposing the extension of
                    slavery beyond its present limits, favoring national internal improvements,
                    urging a protective tariff, and favoring the amendment of the constitution of
                    Indiana limiting the right of suffrage to native and naturalized citizens of the 
                        United States
                    .20 An examination of this platform shows that
                    there was not much difference between the views of the Americans and those of
                    the Republicans. The Sentinel stated that the natural affinity
                    of the Americans was with the Republicans and that through their secret
                    organizations the Know Nothings controlled the Republican party.21
            
            The only other political meeting of any importance during the year was held
                    October 5, 1857, at the Statehouse for the nomination of two supreme court
                    judges to take the places of Judges Samuel B. Gookins and William Z. Stuart, who
                    had resigned. A call was sent out for the Republicans to meet 
                  
                     15
                            State Sentinel, April 16, 1860.
                  
                     16
                            Weekly State Journal, April 9, 1857 ; April 23, 1857.
                  
                     17
                            Weekly State Journal, April 16, 1857.
                  
                     18
                            Weekly State Journal, September 24, 1857.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Dollar Weekly Courier, October 6, 1858.
                  
                     20
                            Weekly State Journal, February 19, 1857.
                  
                     21
                            State Sentinel, Aug. 13, 1857.
               
                     for that purpose. This was the first call
                    in which the word "Republicans" was used and which was signed
                    by the Republican State Central Committee.22 Horace P.
                    Biddle of 
                        Cass
                     county and Elias S. Terry of 
                        Parke
                     county were nominated by the convention. A series of resolutions
                    was passed reaffirming the 
                        Philadelphia
                     platform of 1856, denouncing the Democrats for not assisting in
                    passing necessary legislation . at the last State legislature, and favoring
                    paper currency redeemable in gold coin.23
            
            Before the opening of the campaign of 1858 it was seen that the question of the
                    admission of 
                        Kansas
                     was going to be the leading issue. In the prospectus of the State Journal was a statement on the political outlook of the
                    day which was prophetic: 
                        The year 1858 will see the great battle of freedom ou the floor of
                            congress, and on the plains of 
                                Kansas
                            , when it will be decided whether a ruthless minority of
                            southern slave-holders shall force a diabolical constitution on the free
                            people of 
                                Kansas
                            , without even submitting it for their ratification; it will
                            see a great division in the Democratic party north on the question of
                            the admission of Kanuas with the above constitution.24
                  
                    
            
            The pro-slavery Lecompton convention had framed a constitution which was to be
                    voted on "with slavery" or "without
                    slavery". The constitution was not to be voted on. This produced a
                    split in the Democratic party in Indiana. Some thought that the Lecompton
                    constitution was not in harmony with the principle of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     bill, while others thought that 
                        Kansas
                     should be admitted and then the people of 
                        Kansas
                     could change their constitution to suit themselves.25 It was the belief of this latter class of Democrats that this would
                    be the best way of getting the Kansan affair out of politics. They were very
                    anxious to have the question settled, since it was evident that the Republicans
                    were intending to make 
                        Kansas
                     the main issue.
            The New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Daily Ledger could not see how the action of the convention in
                    refusing to submit the constitution to the people could be defended. The slavery
                    question alone was 
                  
                     22
                            Weekly State Journal, Sept. 24, 1857.
                  
                     23
                            Weekly State Journal, Oct. 8, 1867.
                  
                     24
                            Weekly State Journal, Jan. 7, 1868.
                  
                     25
                            State Sentinel, Dec. 17, 1857.
               
                to be voted upon. A small minority
                    was ruling a majority in such a way as to defeat the will of the majority.26
            
            The Sentinel changed front on the Lecompton constitution.
                    December 3, 1857, it published an article denouncing the Lecompton convention as
                    a breach of faith and an unmanly attempt to force a constitution upon a people
                    to whom fair dealing had been pledged. On the 16th of December, 1857, it
                    published an article stating that the conservative, law-abiding, and loyal
                    citizens would sustain the admission of 
                        Kansas
                     under the Lecompton constitution. The Sentinel
                    was anxious to have the question settled by Congress, hoping that the people
                    would forget about it.27
            
            R. S. Hicks, editor of the 
                        Rockport
                    
                    Democrat, charged the Democratic politicians with violation of
                    the will of the people of 
                        Kansas
                     and the principles of Democracy.28
            
            Among the anti-Lecompton newspapers of Indiana were the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    National Democrat, The New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Ledger, The 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Journal, The 
                        Spencer
                    
                    Guard, The 
                        Decatur
                    
                    Democrat, The 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Forum, The 
                        La Porte
                    
                    Times, The 
                        Goshen
                    
                    Democrat, The 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Pharos, The Corydon Democrat, The 
                        Washington
                    
                    Democrat (
                        Salem
                    ), The Cannel-ton Reporter, The 
                        Rockport
                    
                    Democrat, The Newburgh Democrat, The 
                        Princeton
                    
                    Clarion, The 
                        Sullivan
                    
                    Democrat, The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Volksblatt, The 
                        Greenfield
                    
                    Democrat, The Law-renceburg Register, The 
                        Crawfordsville
                    
                    Review, The 
                        Columbus
                    
                    Democrat, The Brownstown Democrat, The 
                        Greensburg
                    
                    Democrat, The 
                        Anderson
                    
                    Standard, The Shelbyville Volunteer, The 
                        Franklin
                    
                    Jeffersonian, The 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Democrat, The 
                        Bedford
                    
                    Democrat, The Fort 
                        Wayne
                    
                    Jeffersonian and The Albion Democrat. These
                    papers constituted three-fourths of the Democratic papers of Indiana.29 They were following the lead of Douglas, who was opposing
                    the policy of the administration in recommending the admission of 
                        Kansas
                     under the Lecompton constitution, as being contrary to the wishes
                    of the people of 
                        Kansas
                     and to the principle of Popular Sovereignty.30
            
            Jesse D. Bright astounded the Democrats of Indiana by 
                  
                     26 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, Dec. 2, 1857.
                  
                     27
                            State Sentinel, April 9, 1858.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, April 24, 1858.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Democratic Pharos, April 28, 1858.
                  
                     30
                            Weekly Stale Journal, April 1, 1858.
               
                     declaring that he had never doubted that
                    congress had the power to legislate for the territories.31
                    This sounded strange to Democrats in view of the principle of Democracy in 1856,
                    non-intervention. On March 20, 1858, in the Senate he said, "So strong
                    is my conviction of the viciousness of submitting to a direct vote of the people
                    the propriety of the enactment of or rejection of laws, that for one I am
                    prepared to extend the same objection to the submission of the entire
                    constitution to the same tribunal."32 Bright had
                    gone back on one of the great principles of the Democratic party—the
                    right of the people of any State to vote upon their own constitution.
                    Representative David Kilgore of the Fifth district in the House of
                    Representatives said: 
                        Where slavery exists by legal sanction, let it alone. But, sir. where
                            slavery does not exist, where territories are free, where there is no
                            law creating the institution, I say, what that eminent leader (
                                Henry
                                Clay
                            ) said among his last declarations: "I never can
                            and never will vote, and no earthly power will ever make me vote, to
                            spread slavery over territory where it does not already exist!"
                            The Republican party which is here opposing the admission of 
                                Kansas
                             under this constitution, is in favor of giving the land of
                            this territory, in limited quantities, to the poor man South and the
                            poor man North, instead of giving it to overgrown corporations, etc.33
                  
                    
            
            Although Representative William E. English of the Second district had said in a
                    speech in the House of Representatives on March 9, 1858, that the Lecompton
                    constitution did not embody the will of the people of 
                        Kansas
                    ,34 he introduced a bill providing that if 
                        Kansas
                     would come in under the Lecompton constitution she was to get five
                    per cent of the proceeds of the sale of 2,000,000 acres of public land within
                    the State and that if the people voted against the Lecompton constitution 
                        Kansas
                     should not be admitted until it had a population sufficient to
                    entitle it to one representative.35 In discussing this bill
                    George W. Julian said, "It was a proposition of gigantic bribery, after
                    bluster and bullying had been exhausted."36 Aquilla
                    Jones of Laporte county wrote a letter to the 
                        Rockport
                    
                    Democrat in which he said that he could not support the
                    English bill since it did not settle the Kansan 
                  
                     31
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Democratic Pharos, April 21, 1858.
                  
                     32
                            State Sentinel, July 31, 1860.
                  
                     33
                            Weekly State Journal, April 22, 1858.
                  
                     34
                            
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, July 3, 1858.
                  
                     35
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Dollar Weekly Courier, May 5, 1858.
                  
                     36 Julian, Political
                            Recollections, p. 162.
               
                     question and was an attempt to force the
                    Lecompton constitution upon an unwilling people.37
            
            Congress passed the English bill as amended by Senator James S. Green of 
                        Missouri
                    . Of this action the Journal said,
                    "Lecompton will prove a deadly poison to the party that has swallowed
                    it. It is slavery's last triumph."38
                    
                        Kansas
                     voted against English's proposition by about 12,000.39 Representative English said that he never thought that 
                        Kansas
                     would accept the Lecompton constitution.40
            
            One of the difficulties of the northern Democrats was to meet the statements made
                    by the southerners on the Lecompton question. While the northern Democratic
                    newspapers were maintaining that it was not the purpose of the administration to
                    force slavery into 
                        Kansas
                     the southern papers were printing views which were contrary to
                    those set forth by the northern Democratic papers. On August 4, 1858, the Mobile
                        Register said: 
                        If 
                                Kansas
                             was not to come in under the Lecompton Constitution as a
                            Slave State, the South was to be compensated by keeping her out as a
                            free State for an indefinite number of years.41
                  
                    
            
            The Charleston Mercury said: 
                        The postponement of the admission of 
                                Kansas
                             Into the Union until she obtains the population which a
                            member of Congress represents, was to allow the South another chance to
                            win the territory.42
                  
                    
            
            Representative Sharter of 
                        Alabama
                     said: 
                        By the bill the North has been compelled to consent that 33,000 i>eople
                            be admitted into the Union as a State with a pro-slavery constitution,
                            while they cannot be admitted as an anti-slavery State until they number
                            03,000 souls.
                    
            
            Representative Bryce of 
                        South Carolina
                     said: 
                        
                     
                                Kansas
                             has voted upon the land proposition, and refuses to accept
                            the terms offered, and therefore remains out of the Union. This
                            conclusively establishes the fact that 
                                Kansas
                             in ultra anti-slavery. This being the case. the best thing
                            for her is to stay out of the Union. Her coming in would only give an
                            accession of strength to our enemies. If she should stay out forever,
                            all the better.43
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  37
                        
                            Rockport
                        
                        Democrat, June 26, 1858.
               
                  38
                        Weekly State Journal, May 6, 1858.
               
                  39
                        Weekly State Journal, Aug. 19, 1858.
               
                  40
                        Weekly State Journal, Sept. 23, 1858.
               
                  41
                        Weekly State Journal, Sept. 23, 1858.
               
                  42
                        Weekly State Journal, Sept. 23, 1858.
               
                  43
                        Weekly State Journal, Sept. 23, 1858.
            
            
            In fact, the South had advanced from the principle of nonintervention as
                    expressed in the 
                        Cincinnati
                     platform to that of attempting to force legalized slavery upon the
                    people of a new State by the action of congress.44
            
            The great question which each Democratic county convention faced was that of the
                    Lecompton question. Indiana Democrats were divided on this question, with most
                    of them favoring the principles set forth in the 
                        Cincinnati
                     platform, approving the Dred 
                        Scott
                     decision, and the election of Bright and Fitch, and favoring the
                    right of any territory to determine its own domestic institutions without
                    interference from congress.45
            
            
               
                  44 O. M. Dickerson, Proceedings of the
                                Mississippi Valley Historical Association,
                        1913-14, p. 199.
               
                        
                     45 The 
                                Hancock
                             Democratic convention affirmed the 
                                Cincinnati
                             platform, Sentinel, July 16, 1857.
                        
                     
                                Floyd
                             and 
                                Whitley
                             county Democratic conventions approved the Dred 
                                Scott
                             decision, Sentinel, September 9, 1857.
                        
                     
                                Jasper
                             county approved the 
                                Cincinnati
                             platform, Buchanan"s administration, find the Dred 
                                Scott
                             decision, Sentinel, Oct. 7, 1857.
                        
                     
                                Monroe
                             county approved the 
                                Cincinnati
                             platform, Wlllard's administration, the election
                            of Bright and Fitch, and the Dred 
                                Scott
                             decision, Sentinel, Oct. 19, 1857.
                        
                     
                                Rush
                             county approved the 
                                Cincinnati
                             platform, the 
                                Kansas
                            -
                                Nebraska
                             Act, .uid the election of Bright and Fitch; Sentinel, Oct. 23, 1857.
                        
                     
                                Owen
                             county favored the 
                                Cincinnati
                             platform and letting 
                                Kansas
                             settle her own troubles; Sentinel, Dec.
                            12, 1857.
                        
                     
                                Decatur
                             county deplored the split between Bright and Wright;
                            Sentinel, Dec. S, 1857.
                        
                     
                                Tippecanoe
                             county approved the 
                                Kansas
                            -
                                Nebraska
                             act, the Dred 
                                Scott
                             decision, and the early admission of 
                                Kansas
                            ; Sentinel, Dec 16, 1867.
                        
                     
                                Adams
                             county favored the 
                                Cincinnati
                             platform, the administration of Buchanan, an independent
                            treasury system, and the election of Bright and Fitch; Sentinel, Dec 17, 1857.
                        The reports of the following conventions are taken from the New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger of Jan. 2, 1858:
                        
                     
                                La Porte
                             county: The people of a territory have the right to form
                            their own institutions subject only to the
                            constitution of the 
                                United States
                            .
                        
                     
                                Wells
                             county: Approved the stand of Douglas on the Lecompton
                            affair.
                        Vanderburg county: That the course of the Lecompton convention in
                            refusing to submit the whole constitution to the will of the people is
                            contrary to the true meaning of popular sovereignty.
                        
                     
                                Spencer
                             county: Favored submitting the Lecompton constitution to
                            the people of 
                                Kansas
                            .
                        
                     
                                Howard
                             county: That we look upon the course of the late
                            constitutional convention of 
                                Kansas
                             as violating the provisions of the 
                                Kansas
                            -
                                Nebraska
                             act.
                        
                     
                                Franklin County
                            : That we are in favor of admitting 
                                Kansas
                             as a free state.
                        
                     
                                Jennings
                             county: That we are in favor of the people of 
                                Kansas
                             determining their own institutions.
                        
                     
                                Fayette
                             county: We recommend that congress confirm no constitution
                            for 
                                Kansas
                             or any other territory that conflicts with the principles
                            of the 
                                Kansas
                            -
                                Nebraska
                             bill.
                    
            
            
            In this divided state the Democracy of Indiana realized that it was unfortunate
                    that the Democratic State convention was to be held on January 8, 1858, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , since there did not seem to be much possibility of harmonizing the
                    Douglas and administration Democrats. It was thought that an effort would be
                    made by the followers of Bright and Fitch to force the convention to endorse the
                    Lecompton constitution as a basis for the admission of 
                        Kansas
                     into the Union.46 The opponents of Bright and
                    Fitch urged the party to remember where the doctrine of expediency advocated by
                    the leaders in 1849 had placed the Democratic party and reminded them that it
                    would be foolish to make such a mistake again.
            The convention was a bitter struggle between the Bright men and the Douglas men,
                    in which the Douglas people were unsuccessful. They sustained their first defeat
                    when A. P. Willard was made chairman by defeating W. S. Holman of 
                        Dearborn
                     county. The second defeat came when Joseph W. Chapman of 
                        Jefferson
                     county moved that parliamentary rules govern the convention. This
                    gave Willard the power to appoint the committees. The nominating committee
                    reported the renomination of the old officers except Superintendent W. C.
                    Larrabee, in whose place Samuel L. Rugg of 
                        Allen
                     county was nominated.47 While Senator Bright
                    was addressing the convention the Committee on Resolutions reported a platform
                    endorsing the 
                        Cincinnati
                     platform, the Dred 
                        Scott
                     decision, Bright and Fitch as 
                        United States
                     senators, condemning the Republican State senators for their course
                    in refusing to pass the necessary appropriation bills, and endorsing the
                    administration of James Buchanan. When the Douglas men realized that the
                    platform as reported did not endorse Douglas pandemonium broke loose. Lew
                    Wallace arose, intending to introduce a Douglas resolution, but after fifteen
                    minutes of yelling the meeting was adjourned by Chairman Willard.
            As soon as the convention adjourned and the noise had abated somewhat, John C.
                    Walker of 
                        La Porte
                     county took the chair. Ryan of 
                        Marion
                     county read a resolution endorsing popular sovereignty as set forth
                    by Stephen A. Douglas. It 
                  
                     46
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Democratic Pharos, Jan. 6, 1858.
                  
                     47 Samuel E. Perkins, A. J. Davidson, James M.
                            HuntiM, and James X.. Warden were nominated for the
                            supreme court.
               
                     was the sentiment of this meeting that
                    unless the majority-were willing to give the minority a chance to express their
                    views they would organize another convention.
            At the evening session a letter from Aquilla Jones, in which he gave his reason
                    for refusing to accept the nomination as treasurer of State, was read. Jones
                    said: 
                        But, gentlemen, with regret I must say, that I cannot conscientiously
                            accept the honor you have offered me, upon the platform you have this
                            day adopted. I am impelled to this conclusion, not so much by anything
                            you assert in your renolutions as by the fact that in my humble judgment
                            some of the favorite measures and at least one vital principle of the
                            Democratic party have either been omitted, or asserted in such a manner
                            as to be susceptible of ail equivocal construction.48
                  
                    
            
            After the reading of this letter Nathaniel Cunningham of 
                        Vigo
                     county was nominated for State treasurer.49
            
            Of this meeting the New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Ledger, January 12, 1858, said, "It would not be the
                    truth to say that the proceedings of the convention were conducted in harmony
                    and good feeling." The 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Democratic PJiaros characterized the meeting as one in which
                    Lecompton was upheld by the well-drilled satellites of Senator Bright, as a
                    contest in which it was decided that the servant should instruct the Democracy
                    which had placed him in power, and as an insult to the citizens of Indiana that
                    Bright should leave 
                        Washington
                     and come to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to secure the abandonment of a principle which was endorsed by
                    nine-tenths of the Democrats of Indiana.50
            
            That the Douglas men were not satisfied with their treatment by the convention of
                    January 8, 1858, was seen when a call for a Democratic mass meeting to be held
                    February 22, 1858, at 
                        Indianapolis
                     was issued. This address stated that although sixty Democratic
                    county conventions had passed resolutions on banking and an independent treasury
                    system, the platform touched on neither subject; that the local interests of the
                    State were forgotten in the intensity of the excitement over the slavery issue;
                    that different interpretations of the platform have arisen, one section viewing
                    it as opposing 
                  
                     48
                            Weekly State Journal, Jan. 21, 1858; 
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, June 26, 1858.
                  
                     49
                            Weekly State Journal, Jan. 14, 1858.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Democratic Pharos, Jan. 13, 1858.
               
                     the Lecompton constitution, while the other
                    thinks that it does not apply to 
                        Kansas
                     at all. The address put the question of 
                        Kansas
                     squarely before the Democrats when it said:
            
                    Are we in favor of contributing to force the Lecompton constitution with
                        slavery upon the i>eople of 
                            Kansas
                         against their will? If we do we shall be beaten. ∗
                        ∗
                        ∗ We ask our brethren not to risk defeat by
                        deserting that principle, which has led us to victory in the past, and the
                        abandonment of which would doom us to defeat in the future.51
               
                
            On the appointed day a larger crowd than had attended the Democratic State
                    convention of January 8, 1858, assembled at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . W. M. McCarty of 
                        Marion
                     county was made chairman. Here a platform was made which stated
                    that by the terms of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     act 
                        Kansas
                     had a right to vote on her own constitution, opposed the
                    retrocession of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal, favored an independent State treasury system,
                    favored gold and silver only for money, endorsed Douglas, read the Sentinel out of the Democratic party, and recommended that a mass
                    convention of the Democracy of the Northwest be held at 
                        Chicago
                     or some other suitable place.52
            
            These resolutions put the Democratic party upon the 
                        Cincinnati
                     platform. The resolution calling for a national convention at 
                        Chicago
                     was very significant. It meant that the Democratic party would, if
                    this were carried out, reorganize itself by refusing to surrender any further to
                    the demands of the South. It would have been a revolution in the party politics
                    of the country53 The Sentinel spoke of the
                    members of this convention as "bolters"54
                    The 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Enquirer said that the mongrel convention was "an
                    assemblage of sore-headed malcontents who have been fed by the Democratic party
                    so long that they think themselves the exclusive rulers of the party, and Mr.
                    Buchanan, having failed to appoint them to some fat office, has given great
                    offence, whereupon they turn ‘People’ and call a
                    convention of the people".55 John L. 
                  
                     51
                            Weekly State Journal, Jan. 28, 1858; 
                                Logansport
                            
                            Democratic Pharos, Jan. 27, 1838; Now York Tribune, Jan. 20, 1858.
                  
                     52
                            Weekly State Journal, Feb. 25, 1858; Democratic Pharos, March 3, 1858.
                  
                     53
                            
                                New York
                             Times, March 1, 1858.
                  
                     54
                            State Sentinel, March 4, 1858.
                  
                     55
                            Weekly State Journal, March 25, 1858.
               
                     Robinson spoke of the Douglas men as
                    follows: "I say let them go, and may God pardon their poor,
                    contemptible, pusi-lanimous souls".56
            
            What was the condition of the Republican party at the opening of the campaign of
                    1858? Horace Greely, in an editorial on this subject, said: 
                        The Republican party is still numerous and strong, lut it has m> platform
                            or distinct creed. In its origin it was the growth of a sudden
                            emergency. It took its shape and iirinciples from the repeal of the 
                                Missouri
                             Compromise and the rape attempted by slavery upon 
                                Kansas
                            . These were temporary issues and have nearly disappeared
                            from the political Held. The grout niass of the Republicans have
                            abandoned the doctrine of congressional control of the territories, and
                            have adopted the principle of Popular Nurcreiyntu.
                            rpoit oilier questions liiere is no agreement among them. In regard to
                            slavery the great body of the Republicans tend toward conservatism.57
                  
                    
            
            In Indiana the Republicans were divided on the question of the issues for the
                    campaign. Men of the Defrees type wanted one great, live issue—Shall
                    slavery be extended beyond the limits of the States where it now exists? This
                    class of Republicans wanted no other issue than this.58 The
                    other class of Republicans proposed dwelling more on State issues than on any
                    national issue. They took the stand that they stood a better chance of carrying
                    the election on local issues.59 In the eyes of the Democrats
                    the Republicans had but one great principle—opposition to the
                    Democratic party. "In intense hatred of Democracy they live, move, and
                    have their being.60
            
            A close study of the call for a mass convention to be held March 4, 1858, causes
                    one to feel that the Republicans were more of an opposition party than party
                    with definite principles. This call invited all, regardless of past political
                    affiliations, who opposed the Lecompton policy of the present administration to
                    participate in the mass meeting for the purpose of forming a State ticket in
                    opposition to that nominated by the packed convention of January 8, 1858.61 It was not an 
                  
                     56
                            Weekly Slate Journal, Feb. 4, 1.858.
                  
                     57
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune, Dec. 20, 1837.
                  
                     58
                            Suite Sentinel, Feb. 18. 1858.
                  
                     59
                            State Sentinel, Aug. 19, 1857.
                  
                     60
                            State Sentinel, Oct. 19, 1857, from 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Express.
                  
                     61
                            Weekly State Journal, Jan. 21, 1858.
               
                     official act of the Republican State
                    Central Committee, but was signed by twenty-one Republicans who had been called
                    together by John Defrees, chairman of the Republican State Central Committee.62 It did not suit M. C. Garber, who said that the wind
                    would be taken out of the 
                        Kansas
                     policy in the call when the administration backed down.63 In 1857 Garber had said that he wanted an out and out
                    Republican convention or none at all. He had had enough Talbotts, Collins,
                    Daw-sons, R. W. Thompsons, and Greggs.64 Lew Wallace wrote
                    that the call revealed the plan of the Republicans to come out on a popular
                    sovereignty platform.65 From the call it was evident that
                    the Republicans were going to make 
                        Kansas
                     the issue. In order to get the fullest use of this issue the 
                  
                            Boone
                         County Ledger wanted the State Republican convention put
                    off until July or August in the hope that the acts of the national
                    administration in dealing with 
                        Kansas
                     would be such as could be used against the Democratic party in
                        Indiana.66
            
            The Republican county conventions made the "Lecompton Fraud"
                    the great issue. Their resolutions denied that they favored negro equality,
                    opposed the Dred 
                        Scott
                     decisions, favored the 
                        Philadelphia
                     platform, denounced the doctrine that the constitution carried
                    slavery into the territories, 
                  
                     62 The State Central Committee was composed of the
                            following members: Tndianapolis—Defrees, J. S. Harvey, David
                            McGulre, James Blake, Berry Sul-Kiove. First district, Thomas F.
                            DeBruler; Second district, John Ferguson; Third district, John R.
                            Cravens; Fourth district, John H. Farquahr; Fifth district, Miles
                            Murphy; Sixth district, James Ritchey; Seventh district, George K.
                            Steele: Eighth district, O. S. 
                                Clark
                            ; Ninth district, D. G. Rose; Tenth district, T. G. Harris;
                            Eleventh district, James A. Stretch.
                  
                     63
                            State Sentinel, Jan. 15, 1858.
                  
                     64
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Dollar Weekly Courier, April 21, 1857.
                  
                     65 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Weekly Ledger, Jan. 27, 1858.
                  
                            
                        66
                                Weekly State Journal, Dec. 10, 1857.
                            The 
                                    Marion
                                 county Republican convention of Feb. 13, 1858, passed
                                resolutions opposing the further extensions of slavery, denouncing
                                the Lecompton constitution, denying the right of Bright and Fitch to
                                seats in the 
                                    United States
                                 Senate, denouncing the Dred 
                                    Scott
                                 decision, opposing the assumption of the 
                                    Wabash
                                 and Erie canal, demanding a homestead bill, and denying
                                that the Republicans favor the political and social equality for
                                negroes.
                            The 
                                    Hamilton
                                 county convention approved of the 
                                    Philadelphia
                                 platform, opposed the spread of slavery, demanded that 
                                    Kansas
                                 vote upon her own institutions, opposed the election of
                                Bright and Fitch to the 
                                    United States
                                 Senate, and opposed the assumption of the 
                                    Wabash
                                 and Erie bonds.
                            
                        
                           Clinton, Carroll, Rush, Tippecanoe,
                                        Vigo, Marshall, Morgan,
                                        Randolph, Hancock, Delaware, Monroe,
                                        Johnson, St. Joseph, Montgomery
                         and 
                                    Henry
                                 county Republicans held conventions and passed
                                resolutions similar to the above.
                        
               
                     favored a Homestead law and denounced the
                    admission of Bright and Fitch to the 
                        United States
                     senate.
            The Republicans met March 4, 1858, in their State convention, which was
                    characterized by the New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Weekly Ledger of March 10, 1858, as "Black Republican
                    all over". Oliver P. Morton was made chairman of the meeting. In his
                    remarks to the convention he urged the members to act in harmony, saying that it
                    was idle to expect to please everybody. He pointed out that it was the duty of
                    every member of the convention to support the ticket. He then showed that the
                    pro-slavery people had taken every foot of territory from the North and had
                    gotten control of the supreme court of the 
                        United States
                    .67
            
            George W. Julian followed Morton. He urged the convention to make the 
                        Philadelphia
                     platform the creed of the Indiana Republicans. He further censured
                    the State Central Committee for not sending more Republican speakers into
                    southern Indiana in 1856. According to Julian, this was the cause of the defeat
                    of the Republicans in 1856.
            Mr. Theodore Hielscher of 
                        Indianapolis
                     was the next to speak. He represented that there were 40,000
                    Germans in Indiana, of which not 500 would support the Lecompton constitution.,
                    Mr. Hielscher wanted it said of the Republican party that it was a
                    "free white laborer" party.,
            C. D. Murray followed Mr. Hielscher. He thought that the adoption of the
                    substance of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     platform was sufficient, favoring making the Dred 
                        Scott
                     decision the great issue. While he was speaking the Committee on
                    Resolutions reported a platform in the name of the Republicans of Indiana
                    embodying most of the resolutions passed by the Republican county
                        conventions.68 Owing to the two views held by the
                    members of the convention the Resolutions Committee 
                  
                     67
                            Weekly State Journal, March 11, 1858.
                  
                            68 W. E. 
                                Henry
                            , State Platforms, p. 16.
                        That our national government ought to be so administerad as to
                                    promote harmony between the different sections of our country,
                                    secure the affections of all the people of the 
                                        United States
                                    , and command the respect of the nations of the
                                    earth.
                        That the people of a territory when they come to form a
                                    constitution preparatory to their admission into the Union as a
                                    State have the right to adopt such a constitution, being
                                    Republican in form, as may be acceptable to themselves, and that
                                    no State ought to be received into the Union before the
                                    constitution thereof has been fully and fairly submitted to the
                                    people for their adoption or rejection and received the approval
                                    of the majority of Its legal voters.
                        That the attempt now being so persistently made by the present
                                    administration to impose upon 
                                        Kansas
                                     the Lecompton constitution, notoriously obnoxious
                                    to the great majority of her citizens and with no other object
                                    than to force upon them Institutions against which they have
                                    repeatedly and most earnestly protested, is a gross outrage upon
                                    the rights of the people ot the territory, and
                                    calculated to disturb the peace and harmony of the country.
                        That freedom is national and slavery sectional, and that we do
                                    most earnestly protest against and denounce the dangerous and
                                    alarming doctrine first promulgated by the disunionists and
                                    nulllflers of the South, that the constitution of the 
                                        United States
                                     of itself carries slavery into, and protects it in,
                                    all tha territories of the 
                                        United States
                                     and this doctrine and all its supporters,
                                    maintainors and defenders, whether in or out of authority, we
                                    here pledge ourselves to insist and oppose, as enemies to the
                                    peace and welfare of the country.
                        That we re-affirm the doctrine, that congress has the
                                    constitutional power to exclude slavery from the national
                                    territories, notwithstanding the extra judicial opinion of the
                                    supreme court of the 
                                        United States
                                     to the contrary.
                        That wo disclaim any right to interfere with slavery in the
                                    Slates where it exists under the shield of State sovereignty,
                                    but we oppose' now, as heretofore, its extension into
                                    any of the territories, and will use all proper and
                                    constitutional means to prevent such extension.
                        That wc do not struggle for a mere party triumph., but for the
                                    right and unod of our whole country, and that we honor those
                                    political opponents who have hud the manliness to placo
                                    themselves in opposition to the administration in its assault
                                    upon the fundamental principles of American liberty.
                        That Jesse D. Bright and Graham N. Fitch are not of right the
                                    representatives of this Slate in the senate of the 
                                        United States
                                    , and ought to be immediately ousted therefrom.
                        That we will always resist the scheme of selfish and
                                    unscrupulous persons, high in power, having for its object the
                                    re-transfer of the 
                                        Wabash
                                     and Erie r.mal from bondholders to the State.
                        That we arc in favor of granting to actual settlers on the
                                    public lands a homestead of at least 160 acres.
                     
                  
               
                     had a difficult task in trying to draft a
                    platform that would suit those desiring a verbal reaffirmation of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     platform and those desiring to make 
                        Kansas
                     the leading issue.69
            
            George W. Julian attacked the platform as being the work of the managers of the
                    convention rather than an honest expression of the views of the members of the
                    Republican party. He argued for a direct reaffirmation of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     platform.70 Morton answered him by saying that
                    the platform was sufficient if it declared the substance of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     platform. Morton thought that since the men who made the 
                        Philadelphia
                     platform had made it to suit the 
                  
                     69
                            
                        
                                    Miami
                                 County Sentinel, March IS, 1858.
                  
                     70 July 4, 1857, at 
                                Raysville
                            , Julian had characterized the People's party as
                            "conceived in mere policy and lust for office, and managed by
                            unbelieving politicians. and that cowardice was stamped upon its
                            features." W. D. Foulke, Life of Morton, I,
                            61-2.
               
                     case the Republicans of Indiana had the
                    right to do the same.71
            
            The nominating committee reported the following ticket: 
                        For Supreme Judges—First district, Horace P. Biddle of 
                                Cass
                            ; Second district, A. W. 
                                Hendricks
                             of 
                                Jefferson
                            ; Third district, Simon Yandes of 
                                Marion
                            ; Fourth district, William D. Griswold of 
                                Vigo
                            ; Attorney General, W. T. Otto of 
                                Floyd
                            ; Treasurer, John H. Harper of 
                                St. Joseph
                            ; Auditor, Albert Lange of 
                                Vigo
                            ; Secretary of State, W. A. Teele of 
                                Randolph
                            ; Superintendent of Public Instruction, John Young of 
                                Marion
                            .
                    
            
            In considering the Republican platform it might be said that any Douglas Democrat
                    could subscribe to the first three planks and that any Free Soiler could support
                    the next three planks. There were no Temperance nor Know Nothing planks.
                    Although this was a State election no expression of State policy was found in
                    the platform except on the question of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie bonds, upon which both parties were agreed.72
            
            The 
                  
                            Miami
                         County Sentinel of March 18, 1858, criticized the platform
                    by saying that it did not say that congress ought to exclude slavery from the
                    territories, as did the 
                        Philadelphia
                     platform. It favored homesteads of not less than 160 acres to
                    actual settlers on the public lands. It was the thought of the party that this
                    would be a good means of combatting the further spread of slavery, which
                    depended on large plantations for extension. This plank also appealed to the
                    Germans, who were much interested in getting land for homes. Julian criticized
                    the platform severely by saying that the Republicans not only surrendered the
                    policy of congressional prohibition of slavery in the territories and adopted
                    the principle of popular sovereignity, but made opposition to the Lecompton
                    constitution the sole issue in the camaign.73
            
            The ticket was straight Republican. All the men nominated were former Whigs, with
                    Judge Otto as perhaps the ablest man on the ticket.74 Lange,
                    who had been nominated in order that the Germans would be satisfied, had been
                    elected by the Democrats in 1854 as auditor of 
                        Vigo
                     county. Young, an Irish Protestant, was probably put on the ticket
                    to catch 
                  
                     71
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Dollar Weekly Courier, March 8, 1858.
                  
                     72
                            State Sentinel, March 5, 1858.
                  
                     73 Julian, Political
                            Recollections, 167.
                  
                     74 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Weekly Ledger, March 10, 1858.
               
                     the foreign vote.75 M.
                    C. Garber said that since so few of the Republicans were Catholics there was no
                    need of representing them on the ticket.76
            
            Next to be considered is the attitude of the Republican party toward slavery.
                    Republicans looked upon slavery as a moral, social, and economic evil, an
                    injustice to the slaves, a curse to any community supporting it, and contrary to
                    the dictates of civilization and Christianity. Since there seemed to be no
                    clause of the Federal constitution which gave the national government the right
                    to interfere with slavery in the States, the party did not propose to do
                    anything with it as it existed within the States. But believing that the Federal
                    constitution gave congress the exclusive control of the 
                        United States
                     territories, the Republicans proposed to prevent the establishment
                    of the institution of slavery in any territories. When ready for Statehood the
                    people of any territory had a right to frame their constitution to suit
                        themselves.77 In answering the attacks of the Democrats
                    that the Republicans had swung over to popular sovereignty, Editor Defrees said
                    that when the Republicans proclaimed popular sovereignty they took no new
                    position and abandoned no former principle, but were standing on a principle
                    that they had asserted "from time immemorial".78 There is no doubt that the Republicans in congress resisted the
                    acceptance of the Lecompton constitution by congress as being contrary to the
                    principle of popular sovereignty. Defrees said: "The Republicans
                    contended then as now that slavery had no right in a territory till the people,
                    through their lawful representatives, established it".79 This does not differ much from Douglas' Freeport doctrine.
            The Indiana State legislature in the special session of 1858 endorsed the
                    doctrine of popular sovereignty. Lew Wallace introduced a resolution on the
                    election of 
                        United States
                     senators, part of which read as follows: 
                        
                     Resolved, That we recognize and insist upon the right
                            of the people of any territory to form and regulate their domestic
                            institutions in their 
                        
                           75
                                    State Sentinel, March 25, 1858.
                        
                           76
                                    
                                        Madison
                                    
                                    Dollar Weekly Courier, April 6, 1858.
                        
                           77
                                    
                                        Madison
                                    
                                    Dollar Weekly Courier, June 2, 1858.
                        
                           78
                                    Weekly State Journal, April 22, 1868.
                        
                           79
                                    Weekly State Journal, Sept. 9, 1858.
                     
                             own way, subject only to the
                            general constitution; and that, as incidental to that great right we
                            recognize and insist upon their further right through their Legislature,
                            to pass and establish laws and regulations relative to their property as
                            they shall deem proper, without interference by Con-gress.80
                  
                    
            
            Senator Walter March of 
                        Delaware
                     county offered an amendment denouncing Representatives Hughes,
                    Foley, English, Niblack, and Gregg for not supporting the doctrines of popular
                    sovereignty, and further resolving: 
                        That the people of any territory when they form a constitution
                            preparatory to their admission into the Union as a State absolutely and
                            inherently possess the right to make it in their own way upon the
                            subject of slavery, as well as upon all other subjects uninfluenced by
                            any outside interference whatsoever subject only to the constitution of
                            the 
                                United States
                            ; that this right is not now and never has been called iu
                            question by the people of the 
                                United States
                             or by any respectable number thereof.81
                  
                    
            
            The March bill as amended by the House, December 15, 1858, was passed by the
                    Senate, December 16, 1858, by a vote of 27 to 22.82 George
                    W. Julian asserted that the State legislature endorsed the Douglas dogma and
                    that the better class of Republican papers urged the abandonment of the
                    Republican creed.83 The 
                        New York
                    
                    Times stated that the State legislature had endorsed the
                    doctrine of popular sovereignty as set forth by Douglas and had taken up the
                    Freeport doctrine.84
            
            Being an off-year in the election there was not as much interest in this election
                    as there had been in that of 1856. Who would be elected to congress seemed to be
                    of greatest importance to the voters. The determining factor in the Democratic
                    nominations for congress was the attitude of the nominees toward the Lecompton
                    policy of President Buchanan. Every Republican congressman elected in 1856 was
                    renominated in 1858. Below are the opposing candidates: 
                        First district, William Niblack, Deni.; Alvin P. Hovey, Ind. Dem.
                        Second district, John M. Wilson, Ind. Dem.; W. H. English, Dem.
                        
                     
                        80
                                Weekly State Journal, Dec. 2, 1858.
                     
                        81
                                Weekly State Journal, Dec. 9, 1858.
                     
                        82
                                Weekly State Journal, Dec. 23, 1858.
                     
                        83 Julian, Political
                                    Recollections, 167.
                     
                        84
                                
                                    New York
                                 Times, Nov. 26, 1856.
                  
                        
                        Third district, George AV. Carr, Ind. Dem.; W. M. Dunn, Rep.; James
                            Hughes, Dem.
                        Fourth district, P. A. Hackleman, Rep.; W. S. Holinan, Dem.
                        Fifth district, David Kilgore, Rep.; Lafe Develin, Dem.
                        Sixth district, A. G. 
                                Porter
                            , Rep.; 
                                Martin
                             M. Ray, Dem.
                        Seventh district, John G. Davis, Ind.; 
                                Henry
                             Secrist, Dem.
                        Eighth district, James Wilson, Rep.; J. W. Blake, Dem.
                        Ninth district, Schuyler Colfax, Rep.; J. C. Walker, Dem.
                        Tenth district, Charles Case, Rep.; John W. Dawson, Dem.
                        Eleventh district, John U. Pettit, Rep.; John R. Coffroth, Dem.
                    
            
            In the First district the Republicans did not nominate a candidate, but supported
                    Hovey, who had announced himself as standing on the 
                        Cincinnati
                     platform and as being opposed to the Lecompton policy of President
                    Buchanan. Hovey could not support a party which was in favor of the
                    English-Green bill, by which ^.OOO inhabitants could make 
                        Kansas
                     a slave State, while it took 93,000 to make her free.85 Since there was no possible chance for a Republican to be elected
                    from this district, every Republican had to decide this question—Is a
                    thorough Lecompton man and a blind follower of the pro-slavery policy of the
                    President preferable to an anti-Lecompton Democrat?86
            
            In the Second district the Republicans did not nominate a candidate, but
                    supported John M. Wilson in a hopeless race against English.87
            
            In the Third district the Democrats ran James Hughes, who had said, "If
                    every stump in 
                        Kansas
                     were a negro, every tree upon her soil a slave-driver, and every
                    twig upon the tree a lash to scourge a negro to his daily toil, I would vote for
                    the admission of 
                        Kansas
                     under the Lecompton constitution". The Anti-Lecompton
                    Democrats withdrew from the Democratic convention and then nominated George W.
                        Carr.88 That this was looked upon as the cause of the
                    defeat of Hughes was shown by a resolution passed by the 
                        Monroe
                     county Democratic convention of 1860, stating that those men who
                    caused the defeat of the Democratic candidate for congress from the 
                  
                     85
                            Weekly State Journal, Juno 10, 1858; July 29, 1858;
                            Roekport Democrat. June 12, 1858.
                  
                     86
                            Weekly State Journal, July 29, 1858.
                  
                     87
                            Weekly State Journal, Aug. 19, 1858.
                  
                     88
                            Weekly State Journal, Sept. 16, 1858; June 17,
                        1858.
               
                     Third district by bringing out George W.
                    Carr in 1858 deserved the condemnation of all good Democrats.89 William McKee Dunn was the candidate of the Repbulicans.90 Every vote cast for Carr was looked upon by the Democrats as a vote
                    for Dunn.91
            
            In the Fourth district the Republicans ran P. A. Hackleman. Will Cumback
                    withdrew, feeling that Hackleman would run a better race against W. S. Holman,
                    an "acquiescer", who believed that 
                        Kansas
                     should be given a fair chance to setttle the question. Holman was
                    forced upon the regular Democrats by the Douglas men.92
            
            In the Sixth district Albert G. 
                        Porter
                     was nominated by the Republicans over John D. Defrees, the man who
                    had labored ever since the party was organized for its success93 and who had done more than any other man to organize it. 
                        Martin
                     M. Ray, a Know Nothing in 1854, was nominated by the Democrats, who
                    were afraid to draft a platform because of the Anti-Lecompton sentiment.94
            
            In the Seventh district the Republicans supported John G. Davis, the independent
                    Anti-Lecompton candidate. Davis was defeated in the Democratic convention by
                    Secrest, an "acquiescer".95 The failure of
                    the Republicans to run a candidate seriously diminished the chances of Secrest,
                    since the district was strongly Anti-Lecompton. The Journal
                    charged that the Democrats were offering $1000 and expenses of any
                    Republican who would come out against Davis.96
            
            In the Tenth district John W. Dawson, editor of the Fort 
                        Wayne
                    
                    Times, and candidate for secretary of State on the Fusion
                    ticket in 1856, was nominated by the Democrats. Dawson was read out of the
                    Republican party at the district convention of August 12, 1858.97
            
            The Democrats rejoiced at the return of Daniel Mace to 
                  
                     89
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Feb. 8, 1860.
                  
                     90
                            Weekly State Journal, June 17, 1858.
                  
                     91 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, July 13, 1858.
                  
                     92
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, July 26, 1858; Weekly State
                                Journal, July 8, 1858; New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, Aug. 5, 1858.
                  
                     93
                            Weekly State Journal, Aug. 5, 1858.
                  
                     94
                            Weekly State Journal, Aug. 5, 1858.
                  
                     95
                            Weekly State Journal, July 1, 1858; July 15, 1858.
                  
                     96
                            Weekly State Journal, Aug. 12, 1858.
                  
                     97
                            Weekly State Journal, Aug. 19, 1868.
               
                     his "old love". Mace
                    wrote to the 
                        Wabash
                    
                    Intelligencer in 1854 that his future course would be an
                    active, hearty cooperation with the Anti-
                        Nebraska
                    , anti-slavery extension organization. "I make no terms
                    with traitors."98 Mace now said that he came back
                    to his old party since he had left it solely on the 
                        Kansas
                     question, which was now settled by the English bill.99 The editor of the Journal wrote that' if
                    Mace had not been so anxious to lead the movement for the repeal of the Ka'nsas-
                        Nebraska
                     act that he had introduced a bill for this purpose a year before it
                    could possibly be passed he might possibly have remained a Republican.100
            
            The Know Nothings played no part as an organized political party in this
                    campaign. They did not hold a State convention and left each Know Nothing to
                    vote as he thought best in this election. The cry of Know Nothingism, which in
                    former years had kept many out of the Republican ranks, no longer had that
                        effect.101 The Know Nothing party was dead.
            The Republicans made much over the Lecompton issue during the early part of the
                    campaign. After the election in August in 
                        Kansas
                     under the English-Green bill, Lecompton could no longer be used as
                    the issue.102 Then the division in this State was between
                    the supporters and opponents of the administration.103 The
                    Republican party in Indiana was now a purely opposition party. The campaign was
                    a struggle between the Republicans and Anti-Lecompton Democrats on the one side
                    and the Old Line Democrats led by English, Niblack, Foley, Hughes, Gregg, Fitch,
                    and Bright on the other side,104 who maintained that the
                    Republicans sought to dissolve the Union and that they were a sectional party
                    seeking to give the North the advantage over the South.105
            
            It was not until September that the people of the State 
                  
                     98
                            
                                Wabash
                            
                            Weekly Intelligencer, July 26, 1854.
                  
                     99 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, Aug. 24, 1858.
                  
                     100
                            Weekly State Journal, Nov. 7, 1858.
                  
                     101
                            Weekly State Journal. July 22, 1858.
                  
                     102 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, Sept. 1, 1858: "Lecompton was
                            undoubtedly a God-send to the Republicans. They nursed it, gloated over
                            it, rejoiced at it, fondled it, and it was no doubt a great trial to
                            them to be compelled to abandon it now, before they have been able to
                            reap any substantial benefits from it."
                  
                     103
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, Oct. 15, 1858.
                  
                     104
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, July 26, 1858.
                  
                     105
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, Dec. 20, 1858.
               
                     showed a great deal of interest in this
                    campaign. By that time speakers were going into each county and township and
                    campaign literature was being widely circulated. The people were aroused and
                    much ill-feeling was displayed.106
            
            The Democratic State ticket was elected by majorities ranging from 1500 to
                        2900.107 Dunn, Kilgore, 
                        Porter
                    , Wilson Colfax, Case, and Pettit were the Republican congressmen
                    elected. J. G. Davis was elected in the Seventh district and Niblack, English,
                    and Holman in the First, Second and Fourth districts. The opposition had eight
                    congressmen, while the Democrats had three, a loss of three since 1856.108 An opposition State legislature was elected, there being
                    25 Republicans, 3 Anti-Lecompton Democrats, and 22 Democrats in the Senate; and
                    52 Republicans, 4 Anti-Lecompton Democrats, and 44 Democrats in the House.109
            
            The success of the Democratic State ticket was due to the fact that many
                    Democrats voted for their State ticket, but voted for Republican congressmen
                    because of their Anti-Lecompton views.110 The Germans in the
                    large cities and in many counties supported the Republican candidates.111 Many of the Know Nothings in southern Indiana must have
                    voted for the Republican candidates also.112
            
            THE ELECTION OF LINCOLN
            
            As the time for the special meeting of the State legislature drew nearer interest
                    in the election of the two 
                        United States
                     senators increased. The Republicans firmly believed that Bright and
                    Fitch had no legal right to their seats and that they should be ousted from the 
                        United States
                     Senate. H. S. Lane and William M. McCarty, an Anti-Lecompton
                    Democrat, were elected to the 
                        United States
                     Senate by a concurrent resolution.1 Lane and
                    McCarty went to 
                        Washington
                    
                    
                  
                     106
                            Weekly State Journal, Sept. 9, 1858.
                  
                     107
                            Weekly State Journal, Nov. 4, 1858.
                  
                     108
                            Weekly State Journal, Oct. 21,1858.
                  
                     109
                            Weekly State Journal, Oct. 21,1858.
                  
                     110
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, Oct. 23, 1858.
                  
                     111
                            Democratic Pharos, April 6, 1859.
                  
                     112 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, Oct. 19, 1858.
                  
                     1
                            Weekly State Journal, Dec. 16, 1858.
               
                     and filed their credentials with the
                    senate, which finally decided the case in favor of Bright and Fitch. When the
                    vote was cast Senator Douglas voted against Bright and Fitch, who now looked
                    upon Douglas as a personal enemy. This was a cause of the split among the
                    Democrats of Indiana in the next election.
            One of the most difficult things that the Republicans had to meet in their
                    canvassing was the utterances, writings, and acts of the radical members of
                    their party. While it was not claimed by the Democrats that the Republicans
                    approved of and were responsible for the John 
                        Brown
                     raid, they looked upon it as the result of the irrepressible
                        conflict.2 They knew that the "sinews of
                    war" had come from many of the prominent members of the Republican
                        party.3 It was claimed by some of the Democratic
                    newspapers that the whole affair was a Republican conspiracy. This charge was
                    dropped when it was discovered that Captain Cook, second in command under 
                        Brown
                    , was a brother-in-law of Governor Willard, who was now charged with
                    being an accomplice in the affair.4 The Democrats
                    were-further embarrassed by the fact that Willard, McDonald, and Vorhees went to
                    Charleston, 
                        Virginia
                    , to assist in the defense of Captain Cook.5 It
                    was now said that Willard had gone to Charleston to promise to throw the support
                    of the Indiana Democrats to Governor Wise in his candidacy for the presidency at
                    the Charleston convention if Governor Wise would pardon Cook.6
            
            The Harper's Ferry outrage was considered by Democrats to be the result
                    of such books as Helper's Impending Crisis, which was
                    widely circulated in Indiana and had been endorsed by Representatives Colfax,
                    Kilgore, Wilson, and Case.7They argued that the real issue
                    in the coming election was to be found in the teachings of this book and in the
                    speeches of Lovejoy, Seward, and Sumner.8 This charge seemed
                    to be borne out by the resolutions passed by the Republicans at Dublin, 
                        Wayne
                     county, recommending Helper's Impending
                        Crisis as an efficient helper in the overthrow of American slavery.9 The real attitude of the Republicans of Indiana toward
                    this book was expressed by H. S. Lane at 
                        Greencastle
                    , when he condemned Helper's Impending
                    Crisis as conducive to civil war.10
            
            The Harper's Ferry outrage was considered by Democrats to be the result
                    of such books as Helper's Impending Crisis, which was
                    widely circulated in Indiana and had been endorsed by Representatives Colfax,
                    Kilgore, Wilson, and Case.7They argued that the real issue
                    in the coming election was to be found in the teachings of this book and in the
                    speeches of Lovejoy, Seward, and Sumner.8 This charge seemed
                    to be borne out by the resolutions passed by the Republicans at Dublin, 
                        Wayne
                     county, recommending Helper's Impending
                        Crisis as an efficient helper in the overthrow of American slavery.9 The real attitude of the Republicans of Indiana toward
                    this book was expressed by H. S. Lane at 
                        Greencastle
                    , when he condemned Helper's Impending
                    Crisis as conducive to civil war.10
            
            The Harper's Ferry outrage was considered by Democrats to be the result
                    of such books as Helper's Impending Crisis, which was
                    widely circulated in Indiana and had been endorsed by Representatives Colfax,
                    Kilgore, Wilson, and Case.7They argued that the real issue
                    in the coming election was to be found in the teachings of this book and in the
                    speeches of Lovejoy, Seward, and Sumner.8 This charge seemed
                    to be borne out by the resolutions passed by the Republicans at Dublin, 
                        Wayne
                     county, recommending Helper's Impending
                        Crisis as an efficient helper in the overthrow of American slavery.9 The real attitude of the Republicans of Indiana toward
                    this book was expressed by H. S. Lane at 
                        Greencastle
                    , when he condemned Helper's Impending
                    Crisis as conducive to civil war.10
            
            The Harper's Ferry outrage was considered by Democrats to be the result
                    of such books as Helper's Impending Crisis, which was
                    widely circulated in Indiana and had been endorsed by Representatives Colfax,
                    Kilgore, Wilson, and Case.7They argued that the real issue
                    in the coming election was to be found in the teachings of this book and in the
                    speeches of Lovejoy, Seward, and Sumner.8 This charge seemed
                    to be borne out by the resolutions passed by the Republicans at 
                  
                     2 State Sentinel, Oct. 24, 1859.
                  
                     3
                            Democratic Pharos, Nov. 2, 1859.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Dollar Weekly Courier, Nov. 2, 1859.
                  
                     5 J-iOgansport Journal, Nov. 5,
                            1859.
                  
                     6
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 19, 1859.
                  
                     7
                            
                                Goshen
                            
                            Democrat, Dec. 28, 1859.
                  
                     8
                            State Sentinel, Dec. 28, 1859.
               
                     Dublin, 
                        Wayne
                     county, recommending Helper's Impending
                        Crisis as an efficient helper in the overthrow of American slavery.9 The real attitude of the Republicans of Indiana toward
                    this book was expressed by H. S. Lane at 
                        Greencastle
                    , when he condemned Helper's Impending
                    Crisis as conducive to civil war.10
            
            In their county conventions the Democrats came out strongly for the 
                        Cincinnati
                     platform, for Popular Sovereignty, opposing the purchase of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie bonds, denouncing the Harper's Ferry outrage, and
                    favoring Douglas for President.11 These resolutions
                    indicated that the Democrats of this State thought that their party should stand
                    for non-intervention by congress with slavery in State and territory, or in the 
                        District of Columbia
                    .
            
               
                  9
                        State Sentinel, Jan. 31, 1860.
               
                  10
                        State Sentinel, Feb. 28, 1860.
               
                        
                     11
                            State Sentinel, July 15, 1859.
                        The 
                                Decatur
                             county Democratic resolutions approved non-intervention and
                            popular sovereignty; Sentinel, Aug. 6, 1859.
                        
                     
                                Jennings
                             county Democrats approved the 
                                Cincinnati
                             platform, upheld the Fugitive Slave law and opposed the 
                                Massachusetts
                             restriction on the right of foreigners to vote two years
                            after naturalization. Sentinel, Aug. 8, 1859.
                        The 
                                St. Joseph
                             Democratic convention resolved that the 
                                Cincinnati
                             platform was Democratic doctrine, that the people of a
                            territory should regulate their own affairs, and that the Republican
                            party was sectional. Sentinel, Aug. 17, 1859.
                        The 
                                Porter
                             county Democratic convention approved the 
                                Cincinnati
                             platform and popular sovereignty in its fullest sense. Sentinel, Aug. 20, 1859.
                        The 
                                Cass
                             county Democratic convention approved the 
                                Cincinnati
                             platform, opposed the purchase of the 
                                Wabash
                             and Erie bonds, and favored an Independent treasury. Sentinel, Aug. 22, 1859.
                        The 
                                Morgan
                             county Democratic convention favored the 
                                Cincinnati
                             platform and equal rights to all citizens, regardless of
                            nativity. Sentinel, Aug. 24, 1859.
                        The 
                                Vigo
                             county Democratic convention approved the 
                                Cincinnati
                             platform and opposed congressional intervention. Sentinel,
                            Sept. 10, 1869.
                        The 
                                Fountain
                             county Democratic convention endorsed the 
                                Cincinnati
                             platform and denounced the "higher law."
                            Sentinel, Nov. 7, 1859.
                        The 
                                Ripley
                             county Democratic convention approved the 
                                Cincinnati
                             platform, the Dred 
                                Scott
                             decision, and denounced the Harper's Ferry
                            outrage. Sentinel, Nov. 21, 1859.
                        The 
                                Wayne
                             county Democratic convention resolved that the late
                            treasonable and insurrectionary movement at Harper's Ferry was
                            the natural result of the teachings of the leaders of the Republican
                            party, and that it illustrated what might be expected from the practical
                            carrying out of the doctrines of that party.
                        An examination of the reports of the Democratic county conventions as
                            given by the Sentinel of 1859 showed that the delegates to the State
                            Democratic convention of 1860 from 
                        Perry, Wabash, Parke, Owen, Franklin, Vigo, Brown, Ohio,
                                    Bartholomew, Sullivan, Jefferson, Boone, Cass, Hendricks, Wells, Miami, Hamilton, Vermillion,
                                    Putnam
                     , and 
                                Elkhart
                             counties were instructed to support Douglas for the
                            presidency. This list does not include all the counties instructing
                            their delegates to support him.
                    
            
            
            Undoubtedly Douglas was the choice of Indiana Democrats for the presidency. R. S.
                    Hicks, editor of the 
                        Rockport
                    
                    Democrat, said that two-thirds of the counties of the State
                    had instructed their delegates to vote for Douglas men for the Charleston
                        convention.12 At the same time it was known that Douglas
                    was obnoxious to many of the Democratic State politicians, who would probably
                    oppose the selection of Douglas delegates to the Charleston convention.13 It was felt by Democrats that if the will of the people
                    were carried out in the State convention by endorsing the views of Douglas that
                    many voters who had gone over to the People's party on the Lecompton
                    issue would support the Democratic nominees in the coming election.14 Should the will of the politicians, under the leadership
                    of Senator Bright, or should the will of the people be carried out in the
                    convention, was the question to be decided by the Democracy of Indiana in their
                    State convention.
            The Douglas Democrats feared the Bright men would control the convention. They
                    did not like the decision of the Democratic State Central Committee that the
                    convention was to be a delegate convention. It was thought that a packed
                    convention might be the result unless some means were discovered of preventing
                    the selection of Bright men as delegates to the State convention.15 This fear increased when it became known that Senator Bright was
                    coming to Indiana to attend the convention.16
            
            When the convention assembled at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on January 11, 1860, it was soon evident that there was to be a
                    struggle between the administration men and the Douglas men for its control.
                    Robert Lowry of 
                        Elkhart
                    , a Douglas man, was chosen permanent chairman over Judge Samuel
                    Perkins of 
                        Marion
                     county, by a vote of 189½ to 174½. This
                    showed that the Douglas men were in a small majority. This majority was
                    increased by the admission of Douglas delegates from 
                  Hancock, Jackson, Jennings
               ,
                    Laporte, 
                  Lawrence, Randolph
               , and 
                        Spencer
                     counties. But the big fight came on the resolution 
                  
                     12
                            
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, Dec. 24, 1859.
                  
                     13 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, Dec. 8, 1859.
                  
                     14
                            Democratic Pharos, Sept. 7, 1859.
                  
                     15
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune, July 2, 1859.
                  
                     16
                            State Sentinel, Jan. 10, 1860.
               
                     to instruct the delegates to the Charleston
                    convention for Douglas. During the stormy scene that followed John L. Robinson
                    announced that he could not support Douglas. The resolution was passed by a vote
                    of 265 to 129—
                        Tipton
                     county refusing to vote. The report of the committee designating
                    the twenty-six electors to the Charleston convention was accepted. The following
                    State ticket was nominated:
            
                    Governor—Thomas A. 
                     Hendricks, Shelby
                  
                        Co.
                    Lieutenant Governor—David Turpie. 
                            White
                         Co.
                    Secretary of State—William Schlater, 
                            Wayne
                         Co.
                    Treasurer—Nathaniel Cunningham, 
                            Vigo
                         Co.
                    Auditor—Joseph Ristine, 
                            Fountain
                         Co.
                    Attorney General—Oscar B. Hord, 
                            Decatur
                         Co.
                    Superintendent of l'ublic Instruction—Samuel Iiugc, 
                            Allen
                         Co.
                    Clerk of Supreme Court—Cornelius O'Brien. 
                            Dearborn
                         Co.
                    Reporter of Supreme Court—M. C. Kerr. 
                            Floyd
                         Co.
                
            The Resolutions Committee reported a platform endorsing the principle of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     act, the peaceful acquisition of 
                        Cuba
                    , denouncing the action of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     legislature in regard to foreigners, wishing success to
                    Buchanan's administration, instructing the delegates to the Charleston
                    convention to vote for Douglas, condemning the outrage at Harper's
                    Ferry, accepting the decisions of the supreme court on the true meaning of the
                    constitution, asserting the unquestionable right of "the people of a
                    territory, like those of a State, to determine for themselves whether slavery
                    shall or shall not exist within their limits", and opposing the
                    transfer of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal to the State.17
            
            A study of these resolutions convinces one that the committee on resolutions was
                    trying to please both factions. As a result the platform declares for the
                    acceptance of the decisions of the supreme court and also the right of the
                    people in a territory to determine the status of slavery there. The Dred 
                        Scott
                     decision made these two planks diametrically opposed to each
                        other.18 Upon this platform, with this ticket, and with
                    a party that was composed of two factions, the campaign that was to determine
                    the fate of the nation began.19
            
            
               
                  17 Indanapolis Daily Journal, Jan.
                        12-13, 1860.
               
                  18
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, Jan. 16, 1860.
               
                  19
                        Democratic Pharos, Nov. 16, 1859.
            
            
            The great question in the minds of the voters of the North as the time for
                    holding the national convention drew nearer was, Who can be elected? This was of
                    vital importance to the voters of Indiana, since there was sure to be a
                    strenuous contest in this State. Although the great battles of the campaign were
                    to be fought in the Northern States, a portion of the southern newspapers were
                    demanding that these States should not be granted a vote in the Charleston
                    convention. These editors did not seem to realize that the heaviest fighting
                    would be in the northern States and that a candidate should be chosen who had
                    the best chance of carrying these doubtful States.20 Not
                    only was this demand made, but the South demanded that the Democrats leave the
                    principle of nonintervention and adopt the doctrine that the national congress
                    must protect slavery in the territories. The Democratic senators held a caucus
                    at 
                        Washington
                    , with Senator Bright as chairman, and adopted the Davis resolutions
                    as the creed of the Democratic party.21 It seemed to Indiana
                    Democrats that the administration and the South were desirous of formulating the
                    platform and choosing the candidate for the presidency. This was calling upon
                    the Democrats of the North to acknowledge that the party had stood upon
                    erroneous ground in 1856. There were probably twenty or thirty thousand
                    Democrats in Indiana who would refuse to do so.22This
                    sentiment was that of the Indiana delegates to the Charleston convention, who
                    voted fifty-seven times solidly for Douglas.23 This did not
                    please Senator Bright, of whom it was reported that he would stump Indiana,
                    county by county, against Douglas, if he should be nominated.24 After the nomination of Douglas and 
                        Johnson
                     at 
                        Baltimore
                     nearly all the prominent politicians of Indiana—most of
                    whom had been opposed to Douglas—went over to the Douglas ranks.25 Indiana Democrats were no longer willing to yield to the
                    demands of the South. A mass-meeting was held at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on July 18, for the purpose of ratifying the nominations 
                  
                     20 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, Nov. 29, 1859.
                  
                     21
                            Democratic Pharos, Feb. 29, 1860.
                  
                     22
                            
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, April 14, 1860.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, May 19, 1860.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, May 12, 1860.
                  
                     25
                            Old Line Guard, Sept. 1, 1860.
               
                     of Douglas and 
                        Johnson
                    . The Sentinel estimated the attendance at two
                    thousand, and states that on all sides was heard the expression that it was the
                    duty of the party to support Douglas.26 According to the
                    Breckinridge Democrats, the only effect of the meeting was to turn one of the
                    Douglas marshals, Charles Coulon, and a great many Germans from Douglas to 
                        Lincoln
                     as the stronger of the two free-soil leaders.27
            
            What should be the attitude of the Republicans of Indiana toward the extension of
                    slavery? Should Indiana support free labor or slave labor? Republicans urged
                    that all who were opposed to the stand of the Democratic party on this question
                    should unite in opposition to it.28 While Republicans agreed
                    that the party should oppose the further extension of slavery they were somewhat
                    divided on the question of congressional or popular sovereignty. Many
                    Republicans did not want the party to declare for either, since the adoption of
                    one of these methods would leave the party with but one mode of doing the work.
                    These men thought that the party should use any legal means for accomplishing
                    its purpose.29 On this question the Shelbyville Banner said, "We favor any legitimate way of excluding
                    slavery from the territories." 
                  
                            Howard
                         County Tribune, "If congress is beyond our reach
                    we would accept an intervention by popular sovereignty." 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Express, "While the Republicans were willing to let
                    the people of a territory regulate their domestic institutions, yet they never
                    abandoned the conviction that congress would exclude slavery from the
                        territories."30
            
            It is not to be inferred from the above discussion that the Republicans no longer
                    believed in the prohibition of slavery in the national territories by act of
                    congress. If the Republican party should succeed it was understood that congress
                    would declare that slavery should no longer exist in the national
                        territories.31 If the supreme court of the 
                        United States
                     should declare the act abolishing slavery in the territories 
                  
                     26
                            Suite Sentinel, July 19, 1860.
                  
                     27
                            Old Line Gnard, Aug. 4, 1860.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, May 13, 1859.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, May 16, 1859.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, June 8, 1859.
                  
                     31
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, March 2, 1860.
               
                     unconstitutional, then the Republicans
                    would use popular sovereignty in accomplishing their end. As the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times put it, popular sovereignty would settle the question,
                    regardless of whatever party won, since the people of the territory were the
                    ones who should decide the status of slavery there.32
            
            While union of all the elements of opposition to the Democratic party was
                    desirable, it was thought that it would be impossible for the anti-slavery men
                    to unite cordially with the Americans, who wished to ignore the slavery
                        question.33 The Americans were willing to enter the
                    Republican State convention on the following terms: 
                        
                     That the convention be an o]ii>osition convention in which
                                Itepuli-licans, Americans, and Whigs should participate, fully,
                                fairly, and freely.
                     That no extreme anti-slavery man should lie nominated for office.
                     That a national platform be adopted.
                     That the delegates to the national convention lie instructed to
                                vote for Bales, Hell, or Corwin for President.34
                     
                  
                    
            
            These demands were so extreme that the Republicans were opposed to calling such a
                    State convention. It did not seem possible to unite the Americans with the
                    Republicans on such terms as those stated above. Many Republicans were earnestly
                    bent on forming a specific Republican party, even though it cost the party the
                    victory at the polls.35 Prominent among this class of
                    Republicans were the editors of the Fort 
                        Wayne
                    
                    Republican and the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier. These men favored a straight Republican convention
                    and no other kind.36The Republican State Central Committee
                    evidently wanted the opponents of the Democrats to enter into the State
                    convention as individuals and not as members of political parties. The call is
                    as follows: 
                        The people of ludiana who are opposed lo the policy of the present
                            administration of the general government, to federal corruption and
                            usurpation, to the extension of slavery into the territories, to the new
                            and dangerous political doctrine that the constitution, of its own
                            force. carries slavery into all the territories of the 
                                United States
                            , to the reopening of the African slave trade: and who are
                            in favor of the immediate admission of 
                                Kansas
                             into the Union, under the constitution recently 
                        
                           32
                                    
                                        New York
                                    
                                    Times, March 13, 1860.
                        
                           33
                                    
                                        Madison
                                    
                                    Dollar Weekly Courier, Aug. 17, 1859.
                        
                           34 Brand, The Know Nothings
                                        in Indiana.
                        
                        
                           35
                                    
                                        New York
                                    
                                    Times, Aug. 30, 1859.
                        
                           36
                                    
                                        Madison
                                    
                                    Dollar Weekly Courier, Dec. 14, 1859.
                     
                             adopted by its people, of restoring
                            the federal administration to a system of rigid 
                                economy
                             and to the principles of 
                                Washington
                             and 
                                Jefferson
                            , of maintaining inviolate the rights of the States, and of
                            defending the soil of every State from lawless invasion, and of
                            preserving the integrity of the Union and the supremacy of the
                            conntitution and laws passed in pursuance thereof against the conspiracy
                            of the leaders of the sectional party to resist the majority principle
                            as established in the national government, even at the expense of its
                            existence; who are opposed to the present profligate and reckless
                            administration of the State government of Indiana and its disregard of
                            the laws of Its management of the pecuniary affairs of the State, and
                            who are in favor of restoring the State government to a system of strict 
                                economy
                             and subordination to the laws of the State; who are in
                            favor of the passage of laws against the embezzlement of the
                            people's money by the State officers, and who are in favor of
                            an honest administration of State affairs, are requested to meet in
                            their respective counties on a day to be agreed upon by them and elect
                            delegates to attend the mass State convention, to be held at 
                                Indianapolis
                            . on the 22nd of February, 1860, to appoint candidates for
                            State officers and to appoint delegates to attend the national
                            convention, to be held iir 
                                Chicago
                             on the 13th of June next, to nominate candidates for
                            President and Vice-President of the 
                                United States
                            .37
                  
                        M. C. GABBEB, Chairman.
                  
                    
            
            It will be observed that the word Republican was not used in this call. This was
                    done in deference to the wishes of the Americans.38 It
                    seemed broad enough to embrace every opponent 
                  
                            
                        37 Seeds, History of the Republican
                                    Party in Indiana, 28. The State Executive
                                Committee was as follows:
                            First district, M. C. Garber, chairman; James Mason, 
                                    Knox
                                 county; James C. Veatch, 
                                    Spencer
                                 county; Conrad Baker, Vanderburg county.
                            Second district, John W. Ray, 
                                    Clark
                                 County Walter Q. Gresham, 
                                    Harrison
                                 county; Alfred Hayes, 
                                    Scott
                                 county.
                            Third district, John R. Cravens, 
                                    Jefferson
                                 county; Isaac Rector, 
                                    Lawrence
                                 county; Simeon Stanslfer, 
                                    Bartholomew
                                 county.
                            Fourth district, David O. Rabb, 
                                    Ohio
                                 county; Abram 
                           Hendricks, Decatur
                         county; Pleasant A. Hackleman, 
                                    Rush
                                 county.
                            Fifth district. Nelson Tinsler, 
                                    Fayette
                                 county; John C. Lyle, 
                                    Wayne
                                 county: Thomas M. 
                           Brown, Randolph
                                    county
                        .
                            Sixth district, Benjamin 
                           Harrison, Marion
                                    county
                        ; Joseph Miller, 
                                    Hendricks
                                 county; A. I. Griggs, 
                                    Morgan
                                 county.
                            Seventh district, Thomas H. Nelson, 
                                    Vigo
                                 county; D. C. Donohue, 
                                    Putnam
                                 county; George K. Steele, 
                                    Parke
                                 county.
                            Eighth district. Dr. Larabee, 
                                    Montgomery
                                 county; Godlove O. Behm, 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                 county; George Wagoner, 
                                    Warren
                                 county.
                            Ninth district, A. L. Osborn, LaPorte county; D. D. Pratt, cass
                                county ; Mark L. DeMotte, 
                                    Porter
                                 county.
                            Tenth district, Thomas G. Harris, 
                                    Elkhart
                                 county; William 
                           Mitchell, Noble
                         county; John W. Dawson, 
                                    Allen
                                 county.
                            Eleventh district, D. James Brattam, 
                                    Huntington
                                 county; James A. St retell, 
                                    Grant
                                 county; T. C. Phillips, 
                                    Hancock
                                 county.
                        
                  
                     38 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, Jan. 24, 1860.
               
                     of the national and State administrations
                    without sacrificing the principles of the Republican party. In commenting upon
                    this call, M. C. Garber, chairman of the Republican State Central Committee,
                    said that the State Central Committee did not ask a coalition of political
                    parties; that it was the design of the committee to obliterate, as far as
                    possible, distinctions among the opponents of the so-called Democracy; and that
                    it was the intention of the committee to support any candidate who got a
                    majority of the votes of the convention upon his own merits, but never as a
                    representative of another political party.39 In short, this
                    convention was to be a Republican meeting and nothing else.
            In their county conventions the Republicans asserted their desire of preserving
                    the Union, denounced the doctrine that the Constitution carried slavery into the
                    territories, stated that the Dred 
                        Scott
                     decision and the Douglas theory of popular sovereignty were in
                    conflict, denounced the John 
                        Brown
                     raid, favored a homestead law, asserted that congress had the right
                    to prohibit the extension of slavery, and expressed the intention of not
                    interfering with slavery in the States where it already existed.40 These conventions were well attended and much interest was
                    displayed.
            
               
                  39 New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Daily Ledger, Feb. 3, 1860.
               
                        
                     40 The 
                                Dearborn
                             county convention met Dec. 26, 1859, and resolved:
                        That we recognize the doctrine of Popular Sovereignty, and here deny that
                            S. A. Douglas has any patent on its discovery. But that the principle Is
                            as old as our government, and that the Republican party now, as ever, is
                            ready to stand ;ind abide by it. 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Jan. 19, 1860.
                        The 
                                Jasper
                             county convention of January 25, 1860, resolved that the
                            constitution does not carry slavery into the territories and that the
                            Dred 
                                Scott
                             decision and the theory of Popular Sovereignty were in
                            conflict. Daily Journal, Feb. 4. 1860.
                        The 
                                Fountain
                             county convention denounced the Democratic theory of
                            slavery, favored a homestead law, and denounced the Democratic leaders
                            as disunionists, secessionists, filibusters, and nullifiers. Daily Journal, Feb. 6, 1860.
                        The 
                                Marion
                             county convention resolved that the Union must be
                            preserved, that Congress has power to and should prevent the extension
                            of slavery Into the territories, that a homestead law was necessary, and
                            that the 
                                Massachusetts
                             act denying suffrage to 
                                United States
                             naturalized cftizens was unjust. Daily
                            Journal, Feb. 6, 1860.
                        The 
                                Tippecanoe
                             county convention was for preserving the Union, giving
                            naturalized citizens full rights, giving each settler 160 acres of
                            public land, and denounced the John 
                                Brown
                             raid. Daily Journal, Feb. 8, 1860.
                        The 
                                Lake
                             county convention resolved to oppose by all lawful and
                            honorable iiiwtns the extension of slavery Into any of the territories
                            of the 
                                United States
                             now free. Daily Journal, Feb. 11, 1860.
                        The 
                                Greene
                             county convention favored the principles of 
                                Washington
                             and 
                                Jefferson
                            
                        
                    
            
            
            The Republicans realized that this contest would be one of real strength. Hoping
                    to preserve the Union and to bring the administration of the national and State
                    governments back to their former integrity, they were strengthening and
                    perfecting their party organization for the coming campaign. It was essential
                    for success that a strong man be placed at the head of the State ticket.
                    "What will he do for the party in the coming election?" was
                    asked concerning candidates for nomination for the State offices.41 For Governor H. S. Lane, Oliver P. Morton, and Judge William T.
                    Otto were mentioned. It was urged by the opposition in the southern part of the
                    State that if the Republicans wanted to win they should nominate Judge Otto or
                    some other man who was acceptable to the Know Nothings.42
                    Lane seemed to be the choice of the Republicans as expressed in their county
                        conventions.43Feeling that Lane could better unite the
                    elements of opposition, it was arranged that he should be put on the ticket for
                    governor and Morton for lieutenant-governor. After the 
                  
                            and condemned the Harper's Ferry outrage on the ground that
                                the slave States had a right to their slaves. Daily
                                    Journal, Feb. 14, 1860.
                            The 
                                    Ohio
                                 county convention invited all opposition voters to
                                attend the State convention. Daily Journal, Feb.
                                14, 1860.
                            The Vanderburg county convention resolved that slavery should be let
                                alone in the slave States, that the Fugitive Slave law, while law,
                                should be enforced, and that the people of a territory had the right
                                to form a State with or without slavery. Daily
                                Journal, Feb. 15, 1860.
                            The 
                                    Huntington
                                 county convention resolved that every attempt to force
                                slavery upon a people should be resisted by all legal and
                                constitutional means. Daily Journal, Feb. 17,
                                1860.
                            The 
                                    Scott
                                 county conventon resolved, that the Republican party of 
                                    Scott
                                 county will stand by the constitution of the 
                                    United States
                                , will treat with respect the rights of the different
                                States, and exert their influence to maintian the Union of all the
                                States at all hazards, "peaceably if they
                                can—forcibly if they must." Daily
                                    Journal, Feb. 17, 1860.
                            The 
                                    Jay
                                 county convention resolved to oppose the Fugitive Slave
                                law and the Dred 
                                    Scott
                                 decision as unjust, unconstitutional, impolitic, and
                                unwise; as In conflict with the laws of our country, the laws of
                                God, and of the civilized world. Daily Journal,
                                Feb. 20, 1860.
                        
                  
                     41
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Feb. 4, 1860.
                  
                     42 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, Aug. 6, 1859.
                  
                     43 As reported to the Journal
                            the Republicans of 
                        Washington, Marion, Shelby, Carroll, Knox, Lagrange, Lake
                     . 
                        Johnson, Greene, Ohio, White, Boone
                     , LaPorte, 
                        Madison, Vermillion, Adams, Warrick, Marshall, Elkhart, Parke, Lawrence, Jackson, Cass, Pike, Clay, Warren, Sullivan, Bartholomew
                     , and 
                                Monroe
                             counties passed resolutions favoring Lane for governor. The
                            Republicans of 
                        Henry,
                                    Fayette, Union, Wayne
                     , and 
                                Grant
                             counties passed resolutions for Morton for governor. The
                            other Republican county conventions passed no resolutions favoring any
                            man for governor.
               
                     election Lane was to be chosen for 
                        United States
                     senator, while Morton would become governor.44
                    It was thought that the refusal of the 
                        United States
                     Senate to receive Lane in 1858 could only be atoned for by the
                    State legislature sending him back to the 
                        United States
                     Senate.45
            
            In what was probably the largest nominating convention held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     up to this time the Republicans met in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in Metropolitan hall on February 22, 1860.46Here it was decided to perfect the organization and then move to the
                    Statehouse yard because of the crowded conditions. P. A. Hackleman of 
                        Rush
                     county was made permanent chairman. M. C. Garber and L. Q. Hoggatt
                    of 
                        Lawrence
                     county were made secretaries. William T. Otto was the
                    vice-president. Since fully one-half of the delegates could not get into the
                    hall, the meeting adjourned to the Statehouse yard. Here Hackleman mounted a
                    table and announced the appointment of the Committee on Resolutions and the
                    Committee on the State Central Committee.
            Mr. Solomon Meredith, a former Know Nothing, moved that H. S. Lane be nominated
                    by acclamation for governor. Mr. Nelson of 
                        Vigo
                     nominated 0. P. Morton for lieutenant-governor. Nelson said that
                    this was not the place that Morton's friends wished for him, and not
                    commensurate with his claims or abilities, but it was a place where he could
                    serve the Republicans, and he believed that Morton would accept. Lane and Morton
                    were nominated together for governor and lieutenant-governor. The following was
                    the State ticket: 
                        Governor, H. S. Lane, 
                                Montgomery
                             county; Lieutenant Governor, O. P. Morton, 
                                Wayne
                             county; Secretary of State, William A. Peele, 
                                Randolph
                             county; Treasurer of State, Jonathan S. Harvey, Clarke
                            county; Auditor of State, Albert Lange, 
                                Vigo
                             county; Attorney General, James G. Joues. 
                                Vanderburgh
                             county; Reporter of Supreme Court, Benjamin 
                                Harrison
                            . 
                                Marion
                             county; Clerk of Supreme Court, John P. Joues, LaGrange
                            county: Superintendent of Public Instruction, Miles J. Fletcher, 
                                Putnam
                             county.
                    
            
            William T. Otto, P. A. Hackleman, D. A. Pratt of 
                        Cass
                     county, and Caleb B. Smith of 
                        Marion
                     county were chosen as 
                  
                     44 Foulke, Life of Morton, I,
                            66.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Madison
                             Dollar Weekly Courier, Oct. 31, 1860.
                  
                     46
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Feb. 23, 1860; State
                                Sentinel, Feb. 23, 1860.
               
                     delegates at large to the 
                        Chicago
                     convention.47 A State Central Committee of
                    sixteen members was named. A. H. Conner was made chairman of this committee.48
            
            Mr. Hielscher now offered a resolution instructing the delegates to 
                        Chicago
                     to vote for no candidate for the nomination for the Presidency who
                    was not a good Republican in 1856. This was aimed at the candidacy of Bates.
                    This did not suit some of the Republicans who were for winning with any man
                    regardless of his past record.49 The convention laid this
                    motion on the table.
            A platform was adopted which denounced the doctrine that the Constitution carried
                    slavery into the territories, stating that slavery should not be molested where
                    it already existed, favoring a Homestead law, denouncing the corrupt State
                    administration, opposing any attempt to change the naturalization laws, and
                    stating that the Union must and shall be preserved.50
            
            
               
                  47 The delegates from the districts were: First
                        district, James C. Veatch, C. M. 
                            Allen
                        ; Second district, T. C. Slaughter, J. H. Bolton; Third
                        district, J. R. Cravens, A, C. Vorhees; Fourth district, George Holland, J.
                        L. Tates; Fifth district, Miles Murphy, Walter March; Sixth district, S. P.
                        Oyler, J. S. Bobbs; Seventh district, O. K. Steele, D. C. Donohue; Eighth
                        district, John Branch, J. M. Simms; Ninth district, C. H. Test, D. H.
                        Hopkins; Tenth district, George Moon, Mr. 
                            Anderson
                        ; Eleventh district, W. W. Conner, J. M. Wallace.
               
                  48 Seeds, History of the Republican Party
                            in Indiana, 31. The members of the committee were: A. H. Conner,
                        chairman; Robert B. Duncan, John A. Buchanan, Thomas Cottrell, George F.
                        Meyer, Samuel Hall, Thomas H. Collins, D. C. Dranham, S. S. Harding, John
                        Schwartz, John S. Lyle, Robert N. Hudson, H. S. Hazlerigg, Thomas S.
                        Stansfleld, Benjamin W. Oakley, and Thomas J. 
                            Harrison
                        .
               
                  49
                        Weekly State Journal, Jan. 14, 1858.
               
                        
                     50 W. E. 
                                Henry
                            , State Platforms, 20.
                        
                     Resolved. 1. That while disunion doctrines are
                            proclaimed in the halls of congress by the Democracy, and disunion
                            purposely openly avowed, we point with pride to the face that not a
                            single Republican, either In congress or the walks of private
                            life—not a single Republican press—not a single
                            Republican orator—not a single Republican convention, has
                            avowed any design against the integrity of the Union, even should the
                            present administration with its corrupt policy be perpetuated by the.
                            vote of the people.
                        2. That we are opposed to the new and dangerous doctrine advocated by the
                            Democratic party, that the Federal constitution carries slavery into the
                            public territories; that we believe slavery cannot exist anywhere in
                            this government unless by positive local law, and that we will oppose
                            its extension Into the territories of the Federal government by all the
                            power known to the constitution of the 
                                United States
                            .
                        3. That we are opposed to any interference with slavery where it exists
                            under the sanction of State law; that the soil of every State should be
                            protected from lawless invasion from every quarter, and that the
                            citizens of every State
                    
            
            
            It will be noted that the platform did not limit the exclusion of slavery from
                    the territories to the impossible mode of congressional action. It declared that
                    "slavery cannot exist anywhere in this government except by positive
                    local law, and that we will oppose its extension into the territories of the
                    federal government by all the power known to the constitution of the 
                        United States
                    ." Popular sovereignity seemed 
                  
                            should be protected from illegal arrests and searches, as well as
                                from mob violence.
                            4. That the territory of 
                                    Kansas
                                , now desiring admission under a constitution,
                                republican in form, expressing the will and wish of an overwhelming
                                majority of her people, ought to be admitted as a sovereign member
                                of the Union, speedily and without delay.
                            5. That we are in favor of the immediate passage by Congress of a
                                homestead law, thereby giving out of our public domain homes to the
                                homeless.
                            6. That the fiscal affairs of the State of Indiana have been badly
                                managed. That State officers have been shown to be defaulters to
                                large amounts, and suffered to go unprosecuted. That large amounts
                                of the public moneys have been squandered to enrich officials and
                                partisan favorites, and that when the representatives of the people
                                sought to stop those peculations, by the passage of an
                                "Embezzlement bill," the governor of the State
                                vetoed that bill, and thus kept the doors of the treasury opened to
                                be further robbed by dishonest partisans.
                            7. That it is the duty of every branch of the Federal government to
                                enforce and practice the most rigid 
                                    economy
                                 in conducting our public affairs, and the acts of
                                certain parties in high places, in cheating and defrauding the
                                government out of large and valuable tracts of the public lands, as
                                well as a reckless waste and extravagant expenditure of the public
                                money, by which the National Treasury has become bankrupt, and a
                                borrower in the public markets, by the sale of bonds and treasury
                                notes, meets our earnest condemnation.
                            8. That we consider the slave trade as justly held to be piracy by
                                the law of nations and our own laws, and that it is the duty of all
                                civilized nations, and of our public authorities to put a stop to it
                                in all parts of the world.
                            9. That we are in favor of equal rights to all citizens, at home and
                                abroad, without reference to the place of their nativity, and that
                                we will oppose any attempt to change the present naturalization
                                laws.
                            10. That we regard the preservation of the American Union as the
                                highest object and duty of patriotism, and that it must and shall be
                                preserved, and that all who advocate disunion are, and deserve the
                                fate of traitors.
                            11. That we take this occasion to express our thanks to our
                                Republican members in Congress, from this and other States, for
                                their perseverance and triumphant success in the organization of the
                                House of Representatives, in the election of high-minded and
                                national men, over the efforts of a corrupt, sectional and disunion
                                party.
                            12. That a railroad to the Pacific Ocean, by the most central
                                practicable route, is imperatively demanded by the interests of the
                                whole country, and that the Federal Government ought to render
                                immediate and efficient aid to its construction.
                            13. That the soldiers of the war of 1812, who yet remain among us,
                                desurw the grateful remembrance of the people, and that congress
                                should at once recognize their services by placing their names upon
                                the pension rolls of the government.
                            14. That we are opposed to the retrocession of the 
                                    Wabash
                                 and Erie canal, as well as to the State becoming liable
                                for any of the debts, or bonds for which the same was transferred to
                                satisfy.
                        
               
                     to be the only mode practicable in the
                        territories.51 The New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Daily Ledger stated that the platform took a backward step
                    from the 
                        Philadelphia
                     platform by failing to declare that it was the duty of congress to
                    prohibit slavery in the territories.52
            
            The platform declared for a Homestead law. It was the thought of the Republicans
                    that the West would be rapidly settled if a homestead of 160 acres were granted
                    each settler. The South opposed such a law on the ground that it would fill the
                    territories with liberty-loving Germans and others who favored freedom.53 Republicans took up the challenge of "Land for
                    the landless versus niggers for the niggerless."
            R. S. Hicks, editor of the 
                        Rockport
                    
                    Democrat, said that the Republicans had come down a peg or two
                    on their previously declared ultra notions on political questions. According to
                    his view they had softened on naturalization, liquor, and the protection of our
                    citizens abroad.54
            
            Lane was chosen for governor as best able to unite all sections and shades of
                    feeling in the State. The frank admission of the Republicans that this was the
                    reason for Lane's nomination gave the Democrats an opportunity to say
                    that the Republicans supported men rather than principles.55
            
            They further charged that the temperance men were all for Lane knowing that he
                    would not veto a 
                        Maine
                     law if one were passed by the next legislature.56 This was not a very severe charge against Lane since "
                        Maine
                     law" sentiment in Indiana was not strong.
            The Know Nothings fared badly at the hands of the convention. The New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Daily Ledger asserted that not a Fillmore man was an officer,
                    that none were on the committee on resolutions, that none were on the State
                    ticket, that none were on the electoral ticket, that none were on the State
                    Central Committee, and none were chosen as delegates to the 
                        Chicago
                     convention.57 Truly may it be said that this
                    was a straight Republican convention.
            
               
                  51
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, Feb. 24, 1860.
               
                  52 New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Daily Ledger, Feb. 28, 1860.
               
                  53
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, Aug. 15, 1860.
               
                  54
                        
                            Rockport
                        
                        Democrat, March 3, 1860.
               
                  55
                        State Sentinel, Feb. 27, 1860.
               
                  56
                        State Sentinel, Sept. 6, 1860.
               
                  57 New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Daily Ledger, Feb. 24, 1860.
            
            
            Since it was realized that it was necessary for the Republicans to carry 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana in order to carry the election, M. C. Garber, chairman
                    of the Republican State Central Committee, sent a memorial to the National
                    Republican Committee urging the selection of 
                        Indianapolis
                     as the best place for holding the Republican national convention.
                    He urged that Indiana should have the convention since the State was more
                    doubtful than any other State.58 The Sentinel hoped that this convention would be held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     since it would help the railroads, hotels, and saloons and would
                    give pious Republicans of Indiana an idea of real Republican temperance.59 The Republican National Committee failed to see the
                    importance of holding the convention in Indiana. It called a convention of the
                    Republican electors of the several States, the members of the People's
                    party in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the opposition party in 
                        New Jersey
                    , and all others opposed to the course of the administration to meet
                    at 
                        Chicago
                    , June 13, 1860.60
            
            
               
                  Pennsylvania, Illinois
               , Indiana, and 
                        New Jersey
                     were looked upon as the States in which the greatest efforts would
                    have to be made in order to elect a Republican President. "As 
                        Pennsylvania
                     goes, so goes the Union" had come to be considered as an
                    unfailing truth. For this reason 
                        Pennsylvania
                     was to be looked after first while much attention was to be given
                    to the States of the Old Northwest, which had received from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     many colonists who were largely influenced by the attitude of their
                    kinsmen in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .61It was felt that any one nominated for the
                    Presidency would have to be strong in these States.
            Since the Republican party of Indiana had been largely an opposition party made
                    up of men of widely differing views the question of the qualifications of a
                    candidate for the Presidency was important. Should the party nominate a
                    conservative man who was lukewarm on the slavery question, but who would appeal
                    to the outside party men or should it nominate a man who represented the great
                    principle of the 
                  
                     58
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Dollar Weekly Courier, Nov. 2, 1859.
                  
                     59
                            State Sentinel, Sept. 21, 1859.
                  
                     60
                            State Sentinel, Jan. 4, 1860. The time was afterward
                            changed to May 16.
                  
                     61 Mow York Times, Dec. 7,
                        1859.
               
                    
                    
                  CONGRESSIONAL ELECTION 1854
               
                     party? B. R. Sulgrove, editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, urged that the principle of the candidate should be
                    the determining factor. Any candidate who was not opposed to the further
                    extension of slavery should not be considered by the party.62
            
            Schulyer Colfax, editor of the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Register, stated that the candidate must be for free labor as
                    against slave labor and its extension, and that he must oppose the doctrine that
                    the constitution carried slavery into the territories. Colfax favored the man
                    who, supporting the above, could get the most votes. "In a word, if old
                    Zach Taylor were alive although he might not be technically a straight
                    Republican, we should most cheerfully vote for him for President."63
            
            Indiana had several men who were looked upon as of Presidential caliber. Lane and
                    Colfax were strong among the Republicans, R. W. Thompson had the support of the
                    Know Nothings, and John D. Defrees was acceptable to the Old Line Whigs.64 Lane was probably the strongest of these men, having been
                    a 
                        Clay
                     Whig and then a Republican. With Cameron for Vice-President it was
                    thought that he could carry 
                        Illinois
                    , Indiana, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and 
                        New Jersey
                     for the Republicans.85 At the time when the
                    Republican national convention met in May no Indiana man was prominent enough to
                    be considered for the Presidency.
            Bates of 
                        Missouri
                     was much considered in Indiana for the Presidency. His declaration
                    of his views had put him within the pale of the Republican party although he had
                    not been a Republican in 1856. Bates had come out in a letter declaring that
                    congress had power to forbid the introduction of slavery into the
                        territories.66 There was a strong sentiment favoring him
                    in Indiana, especially in Southern Indiana, where it was thought that he could
                    get the support of the Fremont and the Fillmore men. Those favoring his
                    candidacy felt that he could best unite all the elements of opposition 
                  
                     62
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Feb. 3, 1860.
                  
                     63
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, July 19, 1860.
                  
                     64
                            State Sentinel, July 4, 1859.
                  
                     65
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Jan. 27, 1860.
                  
                     66
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, May 5, 1860; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, Nov. 17. 1859 ; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, March 24, 1860.
               
                    
                    
                  CONGRESSIONAL ELECTION 1856
               
                     to the administration.07 His opponents wondered if he was strong enough to handle the Presidency
                    in the approaching crisis. They argued that what was needed was not a
                    conservative man but a man of the 
                        Jackson
                     type.08 Bates was obnoxious to the Germans and
                    the extreme anti-slavery men.09 When it was realized that he
                    was not available, sentiment for 
                        Lincoln
                     steadily arose.70 Yet just before the opening
                    of the 
                        Chicago
                     convention John D. Defrees signed an address to the delegates
                    urging the selection of Bates on the ground that he could carry Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        Oregon
                     and make the election secure.71
            
            Another possible candidate finding favor in Indiana was Justice John R. McLean,
                    of 
                        Ohio
                    . He was considered available since the public was not prejudiced
                    against him as it was against Seward. One strong point in his favor was the fact
                    that he had been a Republican since the beginning of the party.72 There seemed to be no doubt that Indiana Republicans would demand that
                    a western man be nominated.73
            
            Could Seward be elected if nominated? This was the question which the Republicans
                    of Indiana had to settle. As the time for the convention approached there grew
                    up a strong conviction in Indiana that this State could not be carried by a
                    radical like Seward. This same feeling was shown in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    .74 It was argued that the free labor sentiment
                    of the 
                        United States
                     was strong enough to win if an acceptable candidate were nominated.
                    Neither Seward nor Chase would do since both were looked upon as being
                    "aggressively" hostile to slavery. It was said that there were
                    30,000 men in Indiana, who, if they could vote directly for or against the
                    extension of slavery, would vote against it forever, 
                  
                     67 Carl Schurz, Reminiscences,
                            I, 111; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 13, 1890.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Feb. 21, 1860.
                  
                     69
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, March 10, 1860; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, May 9, 1860.
                  
                     70
                            State Sentinel, Feb. 13, 1860, quotes the 
                                South Bend
                            
                            Register as saying that an overwhelming majority of
                            the Republicans of Indiana favored Bates. 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, May 16, 1860, stated that Indiana was for
                            Bates. State Sentinel, May 17, 1860, from 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Times, "Indiana is counted for 
                                Lincoln
                             but her real choice is Bates. The talk about 
                                Lincoln
                             is absurd."
                  
                     71
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, May 15, 1860.
                  
                     72
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 19, 1860.
                  
                     73
                            State Sentinel, Feb. 11, 1860.
                  
                     74
                            
                                New York
                             Times, May 17, 1860.
               
                    
                    
                  CONGRESSIONAL ELECTION 1860
               
                     and yet would not vote for Seward. There
                    were Fremont men who would not support him because of his prominence in the
                    anti-slavery movement when it was less popular than it was in 1860.75 The Republican delegates knew that Indiana would never
                    support Seward and, having no candidate from their own State, concluded that the
                    best way to defeat him was to support 
                        Lincoln
                    .76
            
            Col. A. K. McClure, State chairman of the opposition committee of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , gives an explanation of Seward's defeat in the convention
                    which other writers do not seem to have noticed. Seward had been elected
                    governor of 
                        New York
                     largely through the assistance of Archbishop Hughes. In return for
                    this aid Seward had urged a division of the school fund between Protestants and
                    Catholics. This turned the Know Nothings of the 
                        United States
                     against him. In Indiana and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     there were considerable American votes without which the
                    Republicans could not carry either State. Lane, Defrees, A. G. Curtain, the
                    opposition candidate for governor of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and McClure visited the various State delegations urging that
                    Indiana and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     could not be carried by Seward.77 Since it was
                    felt that these States must be carried in order to succeed, Seward, although he
                    was the individual choice of many who voted for 
                        Lincoln
                    , was sacrificed for expediency. As the day of the convention drew
                    nearer it was evident that there would be two parties present—a
                    Seward and an anti-Seward party.
            On May 16, 1860, in the "Wigwam" the meeting was called to
                    order. It was estimated that ten thousand were within the
                    "Wigwam", with thousands unable to gain admittance. David P.
                    Wilmot was made temporary chairman. P. A. Hackleman was put on the Committee of
                    Permanent Organization. J. R. Cravens of 
                        Madison
                     was appointed a member of the Committee on Credentials. Walter
                    March was put on the Committee on Business. Colonel John Beard was made a
                    vice-president and D. D. Pratt was appointed one of 
                  
                     75
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 26, 1860; May 29, 1860.
                  
                     76
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, May 25, 1860; Hollister, Life of Colfax, 148. The New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, Sept. 13, 1860, had an extract from the
                                Saturday Evening Post, stating that the Indiana
                            delegates met about one month before the 
                                Chicago
                             convention and decided to support 
                                Lincoln
                            .
                  
                     77 McClure, Our Presidents and Bow we
                                make them, 155.
               
                     the secretaries. Indiana was represented on
                    the Platform Committee by William T. Otto.
            As the platform was being read there was applause, sometimes loud and sometimes
                    weak. When the plank declaring that duties on imports should be so adjusted as
                    to benefit the industry of the people the cheering gradually grew until it was
                    deafening. It was evident that the delegates present favored protection for home
                    industries. In addition to the protective tariff plank, the platform denounced
                    the dogma that the constitution carried slavery into the territories, denied the
                    authority of congress or any territorial legislature to give legal existence to
                    slavery in any territory, and demanded a Homestead law, opposed any change in
                    the naturalization law or any State legislation by which the rights of
                    citizenship should be abridged.
            After the nomination of Seward by William M. Evarts of 
                  New York, Norman
                B. Judd of 
                        Illinois
                     put in nomination Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    . A terrible din arose, during which Indi-anians, Illinoisans, and
                    Pennsylvanians danced and yelled like maniacs. After the nominations of William
                    L. Dayton, Cameron, and Chase, Caleb B. Smith arose and said, "I am
                    instructed by the State of Indiana to second the nomination of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    ".78 Bates and Judge McLean were then
                    put in nomination. During the balloting Indiana cast her twenty-six votes for 
                        Lincoln
                     each time. When 
                        Ohio
                     on the third ballot changed her vote from 29 to 34 for 
                        Lincoln
                     and thus nominated him a roar burst forth from the thousands within
                    and without the "Wigwam", sounding as though a thunderstorm
                    had struck 
                        Chicago
                    .
            Caleb B. Smith nominated Cassius M. 
                        Clay
                     for the Vice-Presidency. The Indiana delegation voted eighteen for 
                        Clay
                     and eight for Hamlin on the first ballot. On the second ballot the
                    vote was fourteen for 
                        Clay
                     and twelve for Hamlin. Blakely of 
                        Kentucky
                     moved that the nomination be made unanimous. Smith seconded the
                    motion in what Editor Sul-grove called "the most stirring, inspiring
                    speech of the whole Convention". Lane was called for, but was so
                    exhausted that he could only speak long enough to promise Indiana for Lincoln
                        
                  
                     78
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, May 19, 1860.
               
                     by a 10,000 majority. After the appointment
                    of the National Committee, of which Soloman Meredith of Indiana was made a
                    member, the convention adjourned.79
            
            There can be no doubt that the attitude of the Indiana delegation was largely
                    responsible for the nomination of 
                        Lincoln
                    . George W. Julian said that the delegates from 
                  New Jersey, Pennsylvania
               , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                     representing a "superficial and half-developed
                    Republicanism" labored untiringly for the nomination of 
                        Lincoln
                    , urgently pleading for "Success rather than
                        Seward".80 The firmness of the Indiana
                    delegation was acknowledged on all sides at 
                        Chicago
                     to have been the primary cause of the nomination of 
                        Lincoln
                    .81
            
            Owing to the insistent demand upon the State Central Committee by the Republicans
                    of the State, the 29th day of August was set as the day upon which Republicans
                    should hold a grand State rally for 
                        Lincoln
                     and Hamlin and the Republican cause.82 On that
                    day it was estimated that 50,000 assembled in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . They came in carriages, wagons, on horseback, and by railroad. At
                    sunrise thirty-three guns were fired. Those who had come to the outskirts of the
                    city the night before now began moving into the city. At 11 a.m. a huge
                    procession of "Wide Awakes", "Rail Maulers",
                    and "Abe's Boys" floats, and county delegations moved
                    eastward on 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                        Washington
                     and thence to Military park. After assembling at the park speaking
                    commenced at four stands and was kept up the greater part of the afternoon.
                    Thomas Corwin and Benjamin Staunton of 
                        Ohio
                    , Frank P. Blair of 
                        Missouri
                    , John C. Underwood of 
                        Virginia
                    . H. S. Lane. Caleb B. Smith, O. P. Morton and others were the
                    speakers. In the evening occurred a torch-light procession, in which probably
                    five thousand took part. The exercises of the day closed when the 
                        Indianapolis
                     "Wide Awakes" awarded "Abe's
                    Boys" of 
                        Connersville
                     a banner for having the largest number of uniformed men in line.
            
               
                  79
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, May 16, 17, 18, 19, and 21, 1860; State Sentinel, May 16, 17, 18, 19, and 21, 1860.
               
                  80 Julian, Political Recollections,
                        177.
               
                  81
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Dailp Journal, May 25, 1860.
               
                  82
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, July 31, 1860.
            
            
            
                    And so passed away a day and a night, in which were seen more people, a
                        grander display, and more political enthusiasm than was ever before known in
                        the capital of the Hoosier State.83
               
                
            How did the men of the time look upon the Republican party? Caleb Cushing,
                    president of the Charleston convention, said that the Republican party consisted
                    of disjointed fragments of all past or present parties, with discordant opinions
                    on the great questions of the day, as well as with different political
                    antecedents, and having but one common sentiment—hostility of
                    feeling, if not of act and purpose, toward the local institutions of fifteen of
                    the thirty-three States of the Union.84
            
            Editor M. C. Garber of the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier said: 
                        If a party is measured according to its principles rather than its
                            organization, (be Republican party is (be only organization that can go
                            back to the foundation of the government and there rind (he principles
                            upon which the one rests the key and cornerstone of the others
                    
            
            Thomas Corwin said that James 
                        Monroe
                    , William H. 
                        Crawford
                    , John C. Calhoun, William Wirt, Smith Thompson, 
                  Washington, Jefferson
               , John Quincy 
                        Adams
                    , and 
                        Madison
                     held that congress could prohibit slavery in the territories.∗" Morton said: 
                        The Republican party has not produced this agitation but has been
                            produced by it; it is the creature rather than the creator, it sprang
                            like a Phoenix from the ashes of decayed parties, not as a sword but as
                            a shield to prevent the invasion and subjugation of all the free
                            territory by the institution of slavery.87
                  
                    
            
            William McKee Dunn said: 
                        The repeal of that compromise which gave peaie to a distracted country
                            was one of those acts of reckless partisanship characteristic of the
                            Democratic organization. That repeal, and the associated movements to
                            subjugate 
                                Kansas
                             to slavery, gave birth to the Republican party.88
                  
                    
            
            The Know Nothings, who had played such an important part in the campaign of 1854
                    and 1856, had almost disappeared. 
                  
                     83
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Aug. 30, 1800; State
                                Sentinel, Aug; 30, 1860.
                  
                     84
                            Old Line Guard, Oct. 6, 1860.
                  
                     85
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Dollar Weekly Courier, Sept. 12, 1860.
                  
                     86
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Aug. 30, 1860.
                  
                     87
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, March 16, 1860.
                  
                     88
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, June 13, 1860.
               
                     A. H. Davidson called a meeting of the
                    General Committee of the Constitutional Union party to be held April 12, 1860,
                    at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Here it was resolved to support Judge McLean for President and
                    John Bell for Vice-President, or any other conservative men chosen at 
                        Baltimore
                    , May 9, 1860. Delegates were selected to attend the national
                    Constitutional Union convention.89
            
            The Constitutional Union State convention was held at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , August 15. 1860. Not more than 150 were present representing not
                    over one-fourth of the counties of the State.90 Except R. W.
                    Thompson, William K. Edwards, and Mr. Bowers of 
                        Ripley
                     county there were no prominent political men present. A. H.
                    Davidson of 
                        Indianapolis
                     presided. R. W. Thompson, of 
                        Vigo
                    , addressed the convention, stating that he wanted it understood
                    that he was for Bell and Everett, not 
                        Lincoln
                    . Governor 
                        Morehead
                     of 
                        Kentucky
                     was brought to the platform and made a speech in which he bitterly
                    denounced the Republicans as sectional and eulogized Douglas. He seemed to be
                    full of the 
                        Kentucky
                     feeling that the Douglas and Bell men should unite. A state
                    electoral ticket was selected and a resolution passed ratifying the nomination
                    of Bell and Everett and opposing fusion or alliance with any other political
                    party. The meeting was without numbers, enthusiasm, and leaders. It showed that
                    the party was dead. The great body of its members had gone over to the
                        Republicans.91
            
            On the night of the convention R. W. Thompson addressed an open meeting at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in which he said that the Douglas party was a sectional party. This
                    speech made the Republicans feel that the Americans would never unite with the
                    Douglas people.92 At 
                        Terre Haute
                     he said that the Democrats were the authors of all this mischief
                    and that the present disruption and demoralization of their party was a fair and
                    just reward for their reckless tampering with the peace and welfare of the
                    country. He further stated that none 
                  
                     89
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, April 13, 1860; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 13, 1860.
                  
                     90
                            Old Line Guard, Aug. 16, 1860.
                  
                     91
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Aug. 16, 1860; Old Live
                                Cnartl, Aug. 18, 1860; NYw York Times, Aug.
                            16, 1860, and Aug. 22, 1860.
                  
                     92 New Tork Times. Aug. 22,
                            1860.
               
                     could be elected but 
                        Lincoln
                    , He feared that if the election should go to congress the House
                    would not be able to elect and the Senate would elect Joseph Lane.
                    "Rather than see this insult brought about, I tell you frankly, I would
                    prefer the election of 
                        Lincoln
                    ."93 If the Bell men of the State
                    united with either wing of the Democrats Thompson intended to vote for 
                        Lincoln
                    .
            
                    I would greatly prefer seeing Mr. Bell elected, but he shall never be
                        elected, with my consent, nor shall any other ni.-in, by a bargain with .Mr.
                        Douglas or his friends, or Mr. Breckenridge or his friends.94
               
                
            The Bell men realized that they had no chance to carry this State for Bell. That
                    the Bell State Central Committee of 
                        Kentucky
                     also thought so was seen by their sending a circular to the Bell
                    men of Indiana advising them to vote for Douglas and make sure of the defeat of 
                        Lincoln
                    . According to the committee's notion the election would be
                    thrown into the House of Representatives and Bell would be chosen.95R. W. Thompson answered the circular with a reply addressed to the
                    "Conservative Men of Indiana," in which he urged that each
                    State had a right to manage its own domestic affairs without any outside
                    interference. He believed that too much attention was paid by the voter to
                    national politics and not enough to the affairs of the State. Thompson feared
                    that if the election went to the House of Representatives it could not elect and
                    Joseph Lane would become the President of the 
                        United States
                    . This would be a triumph of the very disunion element about which
                    the 
                        Kentucky
                     State Central Committee were worrying so much. Supporting Douglas
                    would mean the absorption of the Bell men into the Douglas party. He did not see
                    how the Whigs of the Constitutional Union party could be asked to support 
                        Hendricks
                    , who had supported the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise and thus helped to bring into being the Republican
                    party. Thompson was for H. S. Lane for governor, since his election would revive
                    the spirit of Whiggery for which Thompson had long been laboring. Between Lane
                    and the Bell men there was 
                  
                     93
                            
                                New York
                             Times, Aug. 31, 1860.
                  
                     94
                            Old Line-Guard, Aug. 16, 1860; Aug. 21, 1860.
                  
                     95
                            Old Line Guard, Oct. 6, 1860.
               
                     but one point of
                    difference—slavery—and upon that question Lane as governor
                    would have no opportunity to do anything since he would have no power outside of
                        Indiana.96
            
            James G. Bryant, member of the State Executive Committee of the Constitutional
                    Union party, wrote that an attempt was being made to throw the Bell vote to the
                    Democrats. He thought that the Constitutional Union party was not organized to
                    aid either the Democrats or the Republicans. It was his own opinion that the
                    Bell men ought to support the Republican State ticket or stay away from the
                    State election and that every Bell man should vote for Bell and Everett in
                        November.97
            
            Before the day of the October election it was conceded that the majority of the
                    Bell men would vote for the Republican State ticket. Thompson and Edwards were
                    openly against the Democratic party and many other Bell men were for the
                    Republican State ticket, not because they believed in its principles but because
                    of the desire to defeat the Democrats.98
            
            When the 
                        United States
                     Senate took up the question of seating Bright and Fitch, Douglas
                    voted against them. When Lane and McCarty were voted upon by the 
                        United States
                     Senate, Douglas supported them. This was looked upon as the
                    equivalent of a declaration that Bright and Fitch had been elected by fraud.
                    They never forgave Douglas and were from that time on bitter personal enemies of
                        him.99 In order to insure his defeat in the coming
                    election Bright started a newspaper at 
                        Indianapolis
                     called the Old Line Guard. This was not looked
                    upon with favor by Indiana Democrats since it was felt that its object was to
                    disrupt the National Democracy of Indiana and carry the State for 
                        Lincoln
                    .100. At this time there were but five out of
                    sixty-nine Democratic newspapers in Indiana that were not supporting Douglas.
                    None of these five newspapers were very hostile to him. Bright thought that he
                    had a chance by starting a newspaper supporting Breckinridge to revenge himself
                    for Douglas' opposition to seating him in the 
                        United States
                     Senate.
            
               
                  96
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Dally Journal, Oct. 5, 1860; Old Line
                        Guard, Oct. 9, 1860.
               
                  97
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, Oct. 3, 1860.
               
                  98
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Dally Journal, Sept. 5, 1860.
               
                  99 Indanapolis Daily Journal, Aug.
                        18, 1860; Old Line Guard, Sept. 22, 1860.
               
                  100
                        
                            Rockport
                        
                        Democrat, July 21, 1860; 
                            New York
                        
                        Times, July 10, 1860.
            
            
            Knowing that the Democrats of the State were for Douglas, Bright, Fitch, and
                    James Hughes backed a move for a convention on July 31 to nominate a State
                    ticket. Bright had succeeded in arraying the two factions of the Democratic
                    party in open war against each other.101
            
            This did not please the Douglas men who claimed that all that Bright was he owed
                    to the Democratic party organization which had had him elected Senator three
                    times by the votes of men who had hated him. Now he was willing to defeat the
                    will of the Democracy of Indiana by putting a new ticket in the field and
                    electing 
                        Lincoln
                    .102
            
            What did Bright want the Democrats of Indiana to hold as their political
                    doctrine? Breckinridge in his letter of acceptance said that he represented the
                    view that neither congress nor a territorial legislature could establish or
                    prohibit slavery in any territory, but that it was the duty of the federal
                    government and all its departments to secure to every citizen the enjoyment of
                    all his property in any territory of the 
                        United States
                    .103
            
            This was in harmony with the view of President Buchanan who, in his message to
                    congress, said, "Neither congress nor a territorial legislature, nor
                    any human power has any authority to annul or impair this vested
                        right."104 Of Buchanan R. S. Hicks, editor of
                    the 
                        Rockport
                    
                    Democrat, said that he had changed his position on Popular
                    Sovereignty in 1858 and since then every Democrat who had refused to change with
                    Buchanan was no longer within the Democratic organization. According to Hicks,
                    Buchanan really represented the principle of congressional intervention.105 In short the Democrats of this State faced the question
                    of whether they favored their old principle of non-intervention or the newer
                    principle of protection of slavery in the territories by the federal government.
            At the Breckinridge State convention which met July 31, 1860, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Jesse D. Bright, John Pettit, Dr. Sherrod, 
                  
                     101
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, July 14, 1860.
                  
                     102
                            
                                Albany
                            
                            Weekly Ledger, July 25, 180.
                  
                     103
                            ine Guard, July 17, 1860.
                  
                     104 Richardson, Messages and Papers
                                of the Presidents, V, 554.
                  
                     105
                            
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, April 16, 1859.
               
                     John Eckles, John R. Coffroth, John R.
                    Elder, A. B. Carlton, the editor of the Old Line Guard,
                    Senator Fitch, and James Morrison were the most prominent men present. It was
                    decided to put up an electoral ticket but not to nominate a State ticket. A
                    platform was adopted affirming that any citizen had a legal right to take slave
                    property into any territory where it should be protected by congress until
                    statehood was reached. Dr. Sherrod introduced a resolution which provided that
                    the Breckinridge State Central Committee confer with the Douglas State Central
                    Committee with the view of organizing and running a joint electoral ticket which
                    should cast its vote for Breckinridge and Lane or Douglas and 
                        Johnson
                     depending upon which had the highest number of electoral votes from
                    the other States.106
            
            Although this resolution was passed it was not taken very seriously by the
                    members of the Breckinridge convention. The proposition did not meet with
                    general acceptance although both wings of the Democratic party realized that the
                    chance of defeating 
                        Lincoln
                     was lessened by the split in the party. The Old Line
                        Guard favored the acceptance of this "Olive Branch,"
                    as did the Democratic Herald, a Douglas newspaper, which
                    prophesied a terrible defeat for the Democrats unless this compromise were
                    accepted by the Douglas men.u,T The Committee of Five
                    appointed by the Breckinridge State convention to correspond with the Douglas
                    State Central Committee in regard to the proposed joint electoral ticket sent
                    their proposition to this committee. N. B. Palmer, chairman of the Douglas State
                    Central Committee, replied to W. H. Talbott, chairman of the Breckinridge State
                    Central Committee, that the members of the Douglas State Central Committee had
                    no power to act in the matter.108 The Paoli Eagle in commenting upon this action said that the masses of both
                    Douglas and Breckinridge wings desired a joint electoral ticket and would hold
                    these men responsible for the vote of Indiana going for 
                        Lincoln
                    .109
            
            
               
                  106
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, Aug. 1, 1860; State
                        Sentinel, Aug. 11, 1860.
               
                  107
                        Democratic Herald, Aug. 9, 1860; Old Line
                            Guard, July 26, 1860.
               
                  108
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, Aug. 22, 1860.
               
                  109
                        Old Line Guard, Oct. 1, 1860: The Paoll Eagle was one of the few Democratic newspapers favoring the
                    scheme.
            
            
            At a meeting of the Breckinridge State Central Committee held September 17, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , it was decided that it would be inexpedient to place a national
                    Democratic State ticket in the field.110 This left the
                    Breckinridge men to support whomever they pleased at the State election in
                    October.
            Although the Douglas men had refused to unite with their brethren, the
                    Breckinridge Democrats, in a joint electoral ticket, they courted the American
                    vote assiduously.111 Joint electoral tickets had been formed
                    in 
                  New York, Georgia
               , and 
                        Kentucky
                    . The Sentinel approved these joint tickets and
                    would have been glad to see such a ticket in this State. This was quite a
                    contrast from the position taken by the Sentinel in 1854 and
                    1855 in regard to the Know Nothings. At that time the Sentinel
                    designated the Know Nothings as infamous, outlaws, murderers, proscriptive, and
                    miserable shams.112 The Breckinridge Democrats declared that
                    they would not vote for the Democratic State ticket believing that political
                    power and patronage would be divided between the Douglas men and "their
                    allies", the Know Nothings.113 There was some
                    soreness among the Breckinridge men because of the refusal of the Douglas people
                    to form a joint electoral ticket.
            Although the Douglas State Central Committee had refused to consider the joint
                    electoral proposition the Old Line Guard kept on urging the
                    Douglas men to unite with them on the proposition.114 At 
                        Evansville
                     the friends of Douglas and Breckinridge held a meeting and urged
                    the selection of a joint electoral ticket which should vote for the one
                    receiving the highest vote in the Union, provided that if neither could be
                    elected the electors were to vote their individual preferences so as to defeat 
                        Lincoln
                    .115 The 
                        Franklin
                    
                    Herald said: 
                        If this be not done Mr. 
                                Lincoln
                             stands a very sure chance to get Indiana next November and
                            the Democracy alone will be to blame. And we know that
                            nineteen-twentieths of the Democrats of 
                                Johnson
                             county hold the same views. What is there obuoxious in
                            fuseing with the Breckinridge men when we are openly courting favor with
                            the Know Nothings?116
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  110
                        Old Line Guard, Sept. 20, 1860.
               
                  111 W. H. Talbott said that Douglas' friends
                        were busily engaged In forming coalitions with the Know Nothings and that
                        these coalitions were approved by nearly all of the Douglas papers in
                        Indiana.
               
                  112
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, Aug. 22, 1860.
               
                  113 Old Line Guard, Sept. 20, 1860.
               
                  114
                        Old Line Guard, Oct. 11, 1860.
               
                  115
                        Old Line Guard, Sept. 18, 1860.
               
                  116
                        Old Line Guard, Oct. 25, 1860.
            
            
            The Democratic Herald wanted to know what objection there could
                    be to fusing with the Breckinridge men—members of our own
                    household—when we were courting favor with the Know Nothings?117 A. B. Carlton wrote from 
                        Bloomington
                     that the proposition did not take there. Many had expressed
                    themselves in favor of voting for 
                        Lincoln
                     if a joint electoral ticket were selected. Carlton thought that
                    this scheme, if carried out, would drive all the original Douglas men to 
                        Lincoln
                    .118
            
            It was soon seen that Indiana would be carried by 
                        Lincoln
                     or Douglas. To vote for Breckinridge and Lane was looked upon as
                    strengthening 
                        Lincoln
                    's chance of success. As the Democratic
                    Herald stated, "It is Mr. Douglas and Democracy, or Mr. 
                        Lincoln
                     and Republicanism. Choose ye this day whom ye will
                        serve."119 Senator Bright said: 
                        If I were to tell you that I believe that we are going to carry the
                            State, I should tell you that which I don't believe. ∗
                            ∗
                            ∗ Let the breach be as wide as possible
                            between us; and let the sound and rotten men of the Democratic party be
                                separated.120
                  
                    
            
            Although the Breckinridge men realized that they could not carry the State they
                    believed that the Democracy of Indiana thought that Breckinridge and Lane
                    occupied the correct position, but in order to defeat the
                    "Woollys" they would have to vote for Douglas.121
            
            The feeling of the Breckinridge men toward Douglas and his supporters was one of
                    hostility. In some counties of the State they refused to go into the Douglas
                        conventions.122 To them the Douglas wing of the party
                    was the seceding wing. They argued that Douglas was nominated by States not one
                    of which could give him an electoral vote.123 Many of them
                    looked upon the Douglas men as a wing of the Republican party.124 It was argued that the Douglas men should vote 
                  
                     117
                            Democratic Herald, Oct. 18, 1860.
                  
                     118
                            Old Line Guard, Oot. 20, 1860.
                  
                     119
                            Democratic Herald, July 12, 1860.
                  
                     120
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, Sept. 17, 1860.
                  
                     121
                            Old Line Guard, Sept. 22, 1860.
                  
                     122
                            Old Line Guard, Aug. 4, 1860.
                  
                     123
                            Old Line Guard, Aug. 16, 1860.
                  
                     124
                            Old Line Guard, Aug. 16, 1860.
               
                     with the Republicans, since both wanted to
                    stop the spread of slavery. Douglas favored doing so by "unfriendly
                    legislation" and the Republicans by congressional prohibition.125 To a Breckinridge Democrat
                    "Douglasism" was the halfway house to Republicanism, with
                    which nine-tenths of the Douglas party were in full sympathy. W. H. Talbott,
                    chairman of the Breckinridge State Central Committee, said: 
                        We cannot perceive any political difference in the positions taken by Mr. 
                                Lincoln
                             and Mr. Douglas on this question so far as the rights and
                            interests of the slave States are concerned. Mr. 
                                Lincoln
                             believes that congress can abolish slavery in the territory
                            while Douglas believes that the territorial legislature can do so by
                            "unfriendly legislation."126
                  
                    
            
            Both views were hostile to the equality of States, which was the main contention
                    of the Breckinridge men. Like the Republican party, the Douglas party had no
                    strength in the slave-holding States and was therefore considered sectional.127
            
            The attitude of the three candidates for the Presidency toward the power of
                    congress over slavery in the Territories was well explained by the 
                        Rockport
                    
                    Herald:
            
            
                    
                  
                            Lincoln
                        : If they want the institution congress should prevent theui
                        from having it.
                    Breckinridge: If they prohibit the institution congress should force it upon
                        them.
                    Douglas: Congress should not meddle with their decision one way or
                            another.128
               
                
            What did the State election of 1860 mean? If the Republican State ticket were
                    defeated the Democrats believed that all danger of a sectional President would
                    be at an end.129They believed that the Republican party
                    would no longer survive if defeated in the coming elections. It was said by the
                    Democrats that the leaders of the Republican party had gone into it because they
                    thought that it would be successful and that a defeat at this time would cause
                    its leaders to leave the party and kill it.130 The
                    Republicans thought that the election 
                  
                     125
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, July 18, 1890 ; Old Line
                                Guard, Aug. 4, 1860.
                  
                     126
                            Old Line Guard, Oct. 18, 1860.
                  
                     127
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Dollar Weekly Courier, Nov. 2, 1859.
                  
                     128
                            
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, Sept. 29, 1860.
                  
                     129
                            
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, July 6, 1860, quoting the 
                                Louisville
                            
                            Journal.
                  
                  
                     130 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, Oct. 2 and 3, 1860.
               
                     of Lane for governor would indicate the
                    election of 
                        Lincoln
                     in November. If Lane were defeated 
                        Lincoln
                     might be elected, since the Breckinridge men who supported 
                        Hendricks
                     would not support Douglas.131
            
            Would the South secede if 
                        Lincoln
                     were elected in November? It seemed to have been consensus of
                    opinion in Indiana that his election would cause the South to leave the Union.
                    The Democratic Herald thought that the election of a
                    Democratic President was necessary for the perpetuation of the Union.132 The Sentinel said that secession would
                    follow the election of 
                        Lincoln
                     unless congress were conservative.133 If it
                    came to this issue the editor of the Journal, B. R. Sulgrove,
                    was for parting with the South in peace.134 The Journal thought that the best policy would be to let the South depart
                    in peace. In the fierce struggle in the world between despotism and liberty the
                    South would soon be glad to come back into the Union.133 If
                    the Southerners could understand that the Union was worth more to them than they
                    were to it, the last shriek of disunion would be over.136 It
                    seemed that the only terms on which the Southerners were willing to stay in the
                    Union was the placing of the powers of the government in the hands of the South,
                    in order that no interference with slave property be attempted.137 In the eyes of the Democrats the Republican party had but one
                    purpose—dissolution of the Union.138
            
            As in previous campaigns, the German vote was appealed to by both Democrats and
                    Republicans. It was early realized by the Republicans that Indiana could not be
                    carried without the German vote.139 Schurz thought that
                    10,000 German votes formerly controlled by the Democrats could now be turned to
                    the Republicans.140 This was easier to do than it was in
                    1856, since there was no temperance issue in the contest 
                  
                     131
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, Sept. 19, 1860.
                  
                     132
                            Democratic Herald, Dec. 22, 1859.
                  
                     133
                            State Sentinel, November 2, 1860.
                  
                     134
                            State Sentinel, Nov. 7, 1860.
                  
                     135
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Journal, Aug. 17, 1860.
                  
                     136
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Journal, Oct. 31, 1860.
                  
                     137
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Oct. 30, 1860.
                  
                     138
                            
                                Rockport
                            
                            Democrat, Oct. 20, 1860.
                  
                     139 Carl Schurz, Speeches, Correspondence, Political Papers, I, 43.
                  
                     140 Schurz, Speeches, Correspondence,
                                Political Papers, Vol. I.
               
                     and the Republicans had given up the
                    purpose of securing a 
                        Maine
                     law. Reports from the counties in which there was a considerable
                    German population indicated a steady change to the Republicans.141 From these German communities came demands for German speakers.142 Carl Schurz, Charles Cou-lon, Fred Hassaurek of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and Albert Lange delivered speeches in German during the campaign.
                    All the German newspapers in Indiana were for 
                        Lincoln
                    , but the Volksblatt of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , which supported Douglas.143 This was in strong
                    contrast to 1856, when the Freie Presse of 
                        Indianapolis
                     was the only German newspaper supporting the Republican party.144 The Democrats appealed to the Germans not to support 
                        Lincoln
                    , since it was the intention of the Republicans to free the negro,
                    who would then come north to compete with the Irish and German immigrants.145
            
            Early in the campaign the Republicans began perfecting their organization. They
                    planned a perfect canvass of the State, aiming to get a complete record of the
                    voters in each township and to canvass thoroughly the doubtful voters. Inj the
                    work of organization the Republicans were considerably ahead of the Democrats in
                    this campaign.146 At the ratification meeting, August 29,
                    1860, it was resolved that a meeting be held during the third week of September
                    in every township of the State and that county committees arrange the time of
                    meetings, places, and speakers.147 The Douglas Democratic
                    State Central Committee recognized the value of this plan by recommending that
                    on Thursday, September 20, 1860, each township should meet and organize for the
                    purpose of getting out the full vote.148 While victory
                    seemed certain because of the split in the Democratic party, the Republican
                    leaders 
                  
                     141
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Aug. 11, 1860; Aug. 29, Sept. 13, Sept.
                            29, July 7, Sept. 25, 1860.
                  
                     142
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, Aug. 22, 1860.
                  
                     143
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, July 4, 1860. The German Newspapers
                            were the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Freie Presse, the 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Volksbote, the 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Zeitung, the Tell City Helvetia, the
                            LaPorte Freie Blatter, the 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Post, and the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Volksblatt.
                  
                  
                     144
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, June 30, 1860.
                  
                     145 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, Oct. 29, 1860.
                  
                     146
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, June 19, 1860.
                  
                     147
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, June 19, 1860.
                  
                     148
                            Democratic Herald, Sept. 6, 1860.
               
                     feared that overconfidence might mean
                    defeat. John D. De-frees thought that the Republican party should be completely
                    organized even to the districts. If this were done he was confident of
                        victory.149
            
            All over the State "Young Republican" clubs sprang up, whose
                    purpose was to spread the tenets of the party. Usually a hall was hired where
                    speeches were heard and literature was distributed. These clubs became the
                    center of the activities of the party in their particular communities.150 Many of the Republican county conventions had
                    recommended that these clubs be formed.151
            
            A prominent part was played in the campaign by the "Rail
                    Maulers" and the "Wide Awakes". The "Rail
                    Maulers" appeared in the Republican procession in red shirts, black
                    pantaloons, drab hats, and carried mauls.152
                    
                        Lincoln
                     "Wide Awakes" were organized at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and many other towns in the State for the purpose of acting as a
                    political police; to escort all prominent political speakers who visit the city
                    to address the citizens in favor of 
                        Lincoln
                     and Hamlin; to attend public meetings in a body and see that order
                    was preserved and the speaker not disturbed.133 Each
                    "Wide Awake" carried a thin smooth rail, surmounted with a tin
                    swinging lamp so arranged that the lamp could be held in any position without
                    spilling the oil. A small American flag, bearing the names of 
                        Lincoln
                     and Hamlin, was fastened on the rail just below the lamp. The
                    uniform consisted of a black, drab, or silver gray cape, made of enameled cloth,
                    reaching below the waist, and a military cap of the same material. Officers wore
                    cape overcoats of the same material. The primary purpose of the organization was
                    the election of 
                        Lincoln
                     and Hamlin to the Presidency and Vice-Presidency of the 
                        United States
                    , according to the laws and constitution of the country.
            
               
                  149
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, July 26, 1860.
               
                  150
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, Jan. 23, Feb. 2, and March 20, 1860.
               
                  151
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, Sept. 5, 1860, stated that in 1856 Fremont
                        got 17 votes while today there were 197 members of the 
                            Lincoln
                         Club and many Republicans who were not members of the Club.
               
                  152
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, Aug. 30, 1860.
               
                  153
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, July 9, 1860. This reference gives the
                        constitution of the 
                            Lincoln
                         "Wide Awakes" of 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
            The southern Democrats declared the "Wide Awakes", although
                    organized as an aid to the Republican party, were an army in disguise, whose
                    sole purpose was the invasion of the South and the freeing of the negro. The
                    northern Democrats declared that its purpose was the keeping of Democratic
                    voters away from the polls.134 The presence of the
                    "Wide Awakes" at Republican meetings resulted occasionally in
                    small riots. Democrats liked to taunt them by calling them "nigger
                    thieves", "Abolitionists", "John
                    Brownites", and "Os-sawatomies".155
            
            During the campaign Douglas traveled over the country on an election tour. With
                    the exception of General 
                        Scott
                     in 1852, Douglas was the first man to make such a tour. In his
                    letter of acceptance he pledged himself to accept the decisions of the supreme
                    court. In his speech at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in September he said that there was no recourse for a territory if
                    the supreme court should decide that a territorial legislature must protect
                    slavery. Douglas, who had stood for "Let the people rule", was
                    now standing for "Let the people rule if the supreme court will let
                        them".156
            
            Cassius M. 
                        Clay
                    's speech at 
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               ; Carl Schurz's speech at
                            
                  Springfield, Massachusetts
               ;
                    Seward's speech, February 29, 1860, in the 
                        United States
                     Senate; O. P. Morton's 
                        Terre Haute
                     speech, March 10, 1860; G. A. Grow's speech in the house
                    of representatives on February 29, 1860; and Political
                    Sovereignty, an essay by John B. Dillon were political pamphlets widely
                    circulated by the Republicans during this campaign. C. M. 
                        Clay
                    , Will Cumback, H. S. Lane, C. B. Smith, O. P. Morton, P. A.
                    Hackleman, J. S. Harvey, Carl Schurz, Benjamin 
                        Harrison
                    , Thomas Corwin of 
                        Ohio
                    , J. C. Underwood of 
                        Virginia
                    , Charles Coulon, Frank Blair of 
                        Missouri
                    , Dr. Reinhold Sulzer of 
                        New York
                     City, Joseph M. Root of 
                        Ohio
                    , ex-Governor Bobb of 
                        Kentucky
                    , C. M. Case and A. J. Harlan were the principal Republican
                    speakers. Fitch, Bright, W. H. English, and James Morrison were the principal
                    Breckinridge speakers.
            What were the Republicans fighting for and against? 
                  
                     154
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Sept. 24, 1860.
                  
                     155
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Aug. 28, 1860; Oct. 24, 1860.
                  
                     156
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, Sept. 21; Oct. 1, 1860.
               
                     Their speakers represented that they fought
                    for free homes for the homeless; for the laborer against the aristocrat; for a
                    Pacific railroad; to bring the government back to the purity of the fathers; for
                    the extension of freedom; for the preservation of the Union; for the principles
                    of 
                  Washington, Jefferson
                and 
                        Madison
                    ; to put "Old Abe" in the chair; against a slave
                    code for the territories; against Squatter Sovereignty; and against the sin of
                        polygamy.157 On the third of October, 1860, Oliver P.
                    Morton at 
                        Indianapolis
                     said that the main point of the Republican creed was the keeping of
                    the territories free for freeman and protecting free labor against slave
                        labor.158
            
            The State election occurred October 8, 1860. The Republicans carried the State by
                    about 10,000 majority. Lane defeated 
                        Hendricks
                     by a vote of 136,725 to 126,968, while Morton received 136,470
                    votes to Turpie's 126,297. These figures showed that Lane had 255 votes
                    more than Morton. Lane's majority was 9,757, while Morton's
                    was 10,178. These figures do not bear out the thought of the Republicans in
                    putting Lane at the head of the ticket. Had Morton been nominated for governor
                    it is very probable that he would have made as good if not a better race than
                    Lane did.159
            
            The Republicans elected seven congressmen to four by the Democrats. The following
                    men were elected: 
                        First district, John Law, Democrat; Second district, John A. Cravens,
                            Democrat; Third district, William M. Dunn, Republican; Fourth district,
                            W. S. Holman, Democrat; Fifth district, George W. Julian, Republican;
                            Sixth district, Albert G. 
                                Porter
                            , Republican; Seventh district, D. W. Vorhees, Democrat;
                            Eighth district, Albert S. 
                                White
                            , Republican; Ninth district, Schuyler Colfax, Republican;
                            Tenth district, William 
                                Mitchell
                            , Republican; Eleventh district, John P. C. Shanks,
                                Republican.160
                  
                    
            
            The Legislature was as follows:
            
               
                  Republican senators holding over
                  11
               
               
                  Republican senators elected
                  17
               
               
                  Total
                  28
               
            
            
               
                  157
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, July 3, 1860.
               
                  158
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, Oct. 4, 1860.
               
                  159
                        State Sentinel, Dec. 13, 1860. Abstract of the October and
                        November votes.
               
                  160
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Dnilv Journal, Oct. 18, 1860.
            
            
            
               
                  Democratic senators holding over
                  14
               
               
                  Democratic senators elected
                  8
               
               
                  Total
                  22
               
               
                  Kepublican representatives
                  62
               
               
                  Democratic representatives
                  38
               
               
                  Republican majority in the Senate
                  6
               
               
                  Republican majority in the House
                  24
               
               
                  Total majority
                  30
               
            
            In the State election the Know Nothings probably supported the Republican
                        ticket.161 The Breckinridge men generally voted the
                    Republican ticket. This was attributed to the personal hatred of Douglas by
                    Bright and Fitch, whom the Sentinel charges with disregarding
                    the obligations of party duty.162 The Douglas State Central
                    Committee issued an address stating that Bright and Fitch showed a determination
                    to destroy the party in Indiana or bend it to their will. The address further
                    stated that the Republicans were better organized than the Democrats.163
            
            Before the election in November the Democrats realized that 
                        Lincoln
                     would be elected unless the Breckinridge and Bell men supported
                    their candidates.164 To make sure of 
                        Lincoln
                    's defeat the Sentinel proposed that a
                    mass-meeting of all opponents of 
                        Lincoln
                     meet at 
                        Indianapolis
                     to select an electoral ticket. Nothing was done on this
                        proposition.165
            
            At the election, held November 8, 1860, 
                        Lincoln
                     received 139,033 votes, Douglas 115,509, Breckinridge 12,294, and
                    Bell 5,306. 
                        Lincoln
                     had a majority of 5,906 and a plurality of 23,524 over Douglas. He
                    had 2,308 votes more than Lane.100
            
            The causes of the Democratic defeat were, (1) the making of Buchanan's
                    Kansan policy the test of Democracy, (2) the war of Buchanan and his friends
                    upon Douglas, (3) the attempt of the South to force upon the North the principle
                    of congressional protection of slavery, which was in contradiction 
                  
                     161
                            Old Line Guard, Sept. 25, 1860.
                  
                     162
                            Old Line Guard, Sept. 30, I860; Sentinel, Oct. 11, 1860.
                  
                     163 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Daily Ledger, o,-r 23, 1860.
                  
                     164
                            State Sentinel, Oct. 15, 1860.
                  
                     165
                            State Sentinel, Oct. 13, 1860.
                  
                     166
                            State Sentinel, Dec. 13. 1860.
               
                     to the principle of non-intervention, (4)
                    the secession of the Breckinridge and Lane men.107
            
            Moved by two great moral forces—opposition to the further extension of
                    slavery and the demand for a 
                        Maine
                     law—the opponents of the Democratic party in Indiana
                    formed the People's party. With the aid of the Know Nothings who
                    generally supported the People's and Republican parties they succeeded
                    in carrying the election of 1854. By 1856 the People's party had gone
                    from the position of demanding the restoration of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise line to the principle of "No more Slave
                    States". During this and the previous campaign the members of the
                    People's party called themselves Republicans, but they did not dare to
                    call their organization by that name. At this time the party was not completely
                    organized, especially in southern Indiana. The defeat in the elections of 1856
                    did not discourage the members of the new party. In 1857 and 1858 they
                    strengthened their party organization and succeeded in 1858 in electing eight
                    congressmen, although losing the State election. By this time the Know Nothings
                    no longer controlled the new party. During this campaign the Lecompton question
                    was the leading issue and the Republicans of Indiana came perilously near to the
                    Popular Sovereignty doctrine of Douglas. In 1860 they went into the canvass with
                    an organization much more complete than before and on the issue of opposition to
                    the further spread of slavery carried Indiana for 
                        Lincoln
                    .
            BIBLIOGRAPHY.
            
               BEELEB, DALE, "The Election of 1852": Indiana Magazine of History, XI, number 4.
               BRAND, CABL FREMONT, "The History of the Know Nothing Party in
                        Indiana". Especially good on the relation of the Know Nothings to
                        the Republicans.
               
                        
                     
                                United States
                             Census of 1860.
                    
               CURTIS, FRANCIS, The Republican Party, 2 volumes, 
                            New York
                        , 1904.
               DICKERSON, O. M., "Stephen A. Douglas and the Split in the
                        Democratic Party:" Proceelings of the
                                Mississippi Valley Historical Association,
                        1913.
               
                  
                            Franklin
                        
                        Democratic Herald, 1859-63.
            
            
               
                  167 New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Daily Ledger. Nov. 9, 1860; 
                            Rockport
                        
                        Democrat, Nov. 24, 1860.
            
            
            
               FOULKE, WILLIAM DUDLEY, Life of Olircr P. Morton, 2
                        volumes, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1899. Gives the part, played by Morton in the formation of the
                        party.
               Goshen Democrat, 1837-1916.
               HENRY, W. E., State Platforms of Indiana, 1850-1900.. 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1902.
               HODDER, FRANK HEYWOOD, "Genesis of the 
                            Kansas
                        -
                            Nebraska
                         Act:" Proceedings of the State Historical
                            Society of 
                                Wisconsin
                            
                  , 1913.
               HOLLISTER, OVANDO J., The Life of Schuyler Colfajr, 
                            New York
                         anil 
                            London
                        , 1887.
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Daily Journal, 1842-1904.
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Weekly State Journal, 1842-1904. Editor John D. Defrees
                        probably had more to do with tile formation of the party than any other man.
                        B. R. Sulgrove, successor to Defrees, was closely connected with the new
                        party.
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Chapman's Chanticleer, 1853-4. Campaign paper of
                        1854. Jacob Page Chapman was one of the men who worked for a new party.
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Locomotive, 1845-60.
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        State Sentinel, Democratic organ of Indiana, 1822-1906.
               
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Old Line Guard.
                    
               JULIAN, GEORGE W., "The First Republican National
                        Convention:" American Historical Review, IV.
                        "The Death Struggle of the Republican Party:" North American Review, 126. Political
                        Recollections, 
                            Chicago
                        , 1884. Good on the Know Nothings and the Abolitionists view of
                        the new party.
               
                  
                            Logansport
                        
                        Journal, 1849-1912.
               
                  
                            Logansport
                        
                        Democratic Pharos, 1844-1913.
               LYNCH, WILLIAM O., "The Flow of Colonists To and From Indiana
                        Before the Civil War:" Indiana Magazine of
                        History, IX, number 1.
               
                  
                            Madison
                        
                        Dollar Weekly Courier, 1837-1916. Ably edited by M. C.
                        Garber, Chairman of the Republican State Central Committee, 1858-60. Garber
                        was for a straight out Republican party not a fusion party.
               MORSE, A. D., The Republican Party: Political Science
                            Quarterly, VII.
               MCCLURE, COLONEL A. K., Our Presidents and How We Make
                        Them, 
                            New York
                         and 
                            London
                        , 1900.
               New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Daily Ledger, 1849-1916.
               New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Weekly Tribune. 1852-60. Leading Know Nothing paper in tue
                        State.
               
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times.
                    
               
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Tribune.
                    
               
                  Old Line Guard, July 17, 1800-November, 186O.
                        Breckinridge paper.
               Peru 
                     
                                Miami
                             County Sentinel, 1848-1916.
               Rushville Republican, 1846-1916. Edited by P. A.
                        Hacklemau, a leader in the new party.
               
                  
                            Rockport
                        
                        Democrat, 1855-1910. Became an anti-Lecompton paper in
                        1858.
               
                  
                            South Bend
                        
                        
                     St. Joseph Valley Register, 1845-87.
                        Edited by Schuyler Colfax.
               STANWOOD, EDWARD, The History of the Presidency, 
                            Boston
                        , 1892.
               SEEDS, RUSSEL M., The History of the Republican Party in
                            Indiana, 
                            Indianapolis
                        . 1898. Very good but not enough detail.
               
               SCHUBZ, CARL, Reminiscences, 
                            New York
                        , 1908.
               
                  
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        Daily Express, 1841-1903. Flllmore Paper.
               TUBPIE, DAVID H., Sketches of My Own Times, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1903.
               
                  
                            Wabash
                        
                        Weekly Intelligencer, 1854-58.
               WALLACE, LEW, An Autobiography, 
                            New York
                         and 
                            London
                        , 1906. Good in giving the Democratic view of the origin of the
                        party but inaccurate in details, probably due to the fact that Wallace
                        reproduced his material from memory.
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
