
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 63, Issue 1, pages 1-82. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:63+issue:1+year:1967&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Upon the Occasion of the Lilly Library Sesquicentennial Exhibit, November 28, 1966
            Roger D. Branigin*
            
            Here in this warm and safe place lie many of the literary and historical treasures of Indiana. How
                    appropriate in this one hundred fiftieth Birthday Year to display many of them and to join in
                    tribute to the benefactor whose name this rich collection bears.
            As you turn the pages of this exquisite catalog, each item brings a host of recollections and stirs
                    our Hoosier pride.
            
               "The Old Swimmin‘-Hole" and ’Leven More
                    Poems by Benjamin F. Johnson of 
                        Boone
                    , the first published work of the beloved James Whitcomb Riley, carries one down memory
                    lane from 
                        Greenfield
                     to Lockerbie Street. In the mind's eye we see again the old home on the
                    National Road, where the skilled hand of his father, more woodworker than lawyer, carved the newel
                    posts and the trundle bed. With the ear attuned we can hear his talented mother at the organ and the
                    patter of little feet from cubby hole to press. The scene may shift to the travels with Old Doc
                    McCrillus and the canvases the poet painted for his display of patented medicines—and the
                    nostrums of bygone day. Or again to his exciting and reckless lecture tours with Bill Nye and his
                    proper conduct with William Lyon Phelps, defender of Riley and his rhymes.
            
               
                  * On Monday evening, November 28, 1966, President Elvis J.
                        Stahr of Indiana University presided at a brief program which formally opened an exhibit of rare
                        books and manuscripts from the university's Lilly Library in commemoration of the
                        Indiana Sesquicentennial. The highlight of the program was an address by the Honorable Roger D.
                        Branigin, governor of Indiana. The article which follows is that address. Written by the
                        governor in his inimitable style, it indicates ideas and evaluations which occurred to him as he
                        reviewed a special catalog which identified and interpreted the 118 items in the exhibit. This
                        catalog, subsidized by the Lilly Endowment of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , was prepared by Cecil K. Byrd and William R. Cagle. The governor's
                        remarks reflect his lifetime study and substantial knowledge of Indiana's history and
                        heritage, and the address is reproduced here without change in substance. Like Governor
                        Branigin, the editors of the Indiana Magazine of History assume considerable
                        knowledge of Hoosier history on the part of their readers; thus, no explanatory material or
                        footnotes have been added. Minor editorial changes, particularly in capitalization and
                        punctuation, have been made. Most of the illustrations have been chosen from items noted in the
                        special catalog already mentioned. During the program on November 28, President Stahr presented
                        Governor Branigin a certificate on behalf of Indiana University and the Lilly Library. This
                        certificate designated him as an Honorary Fellow of the Lilly Library "in recognition
                        of his effective contributions, as citizen and as Governor, to public awareness of
                        Indiana's heritage, and in appreciation of his personal zeal and scholarship in
                        collecting and making available to other scholars the books and manuscripts which document that
                        heritage." The Lilly Library, opened in 1960, was established as the result of a large
                        and extremely valuable gift of rare books and manuscripts which Indiana University received from
                        the late J. K. Lilly.
            
            
            The critics described it all as doggerel; but to the untutored ear of a Hoosier, it was music,
                    unalloyed, sweet and lazy, lyrical music. Pleasant dreams in metrical perfection, some one said.
            Oh, it sets my heart a-clickin‘ like the tickin’ of a clock,
            When the frost is on the punkin and the fodder's in the shock!
            And on to the Riley Room in the Claypool Hotel, where impatient speakers waiting their turn have for
                    generations let their eyes wander to the poems on the frescoed walls. Always in front of the podium
                    looking eastward: 
                        There! little girl; don't cry! They have broken your doll, I know; And
                            your tea-set blue, And your play-house, too, Are things of the long ago; But
                            childish troubles will soon pass by.— There! little girl; don't
                            cry!
                    
                
            Just a glance at John Scott's map of 1826 unveils the stories of a score of conflicts,
                    treaties, massacres, sad monuments to the bloody engagements with the red man. You see the
                    Greenville Treaty Line, forming the west boundary of 
                        Dearborn County
                     and the Grouseland Treaty Line separating 
                        Decatur
                     from the counties of 
                        Ripley
                     and Jennings, behind which the Miami, the Pottawatomi, and the 
                        Delaware
                     thought they might be left alone. There on the map are the once flourishing places like 
                        Springfield
                     and Pottersville, long since abandoned and forgotten.
            
            
               LILLY LIBRARY, INDIANA UNIVERSITY Courtesy Lilly Library
            
            
            
               RILEY'S OLD SWIMMIN’
                            HOLE AS INTERPRETED BY ARTIST WILL VAWTER Reproduced from Marcus Dickey, The
                            Maturity of James Whitcomb Riley (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1922).
            
            
            
               EARLY MAP OF INDIANA BY JOHN SCOTT, 1826 Courtesy Lilly Library
            
            
            
               ILLUSTRATION FROM THOMAS SAY'S
                            American Conchology (COLOR NOT AS IN ORIGINAL)
                        Reproduced from Thomas Say, American Conchology (
                            New Harmony
                        , Ind., 1830). Courtesy Lilly Library.
            
            
            But more important, the map shows the rectangular or, as some say, the Jeffersonian system of survey.
                    With meridians and base line and the congressional townships, each with thirty-six sections one mile
                    square, Mr. Jefferson, you remember, wanted the sections ten miles square, but Indiana was the first
                    real beneficiary of the compromise rectangular system of land survey. Indeed, the east line of
                    Indiana is the first principal meridian in the 
                        United States
                    , and the second passes through 
                        Lebanon
                     intersecting the base line at Initial Point Park in 
                        Orange County
                    , now in course of preservation by the civil engineers.
            Few have known, until the distinguished historian, Dr. Thomas D. Clark, our Sesquicentennial visitor,
                    so informed us, that the survey system was a primary factor in the rapid development of the
                    Northwest Territory and the absence of it seriously impeded the growth of the Commonwealth of 
                        Kentucky
                    . One who ever dared trace a metes and bounds description which begins with a hackberry
                    tree, witness an oak, follows the meanders of a creek, and ends with a chiselled rock can readily
                    understand.
            Again our eye catches the name of Thomas Say, one of the great men of his day, his biographer in
                    truth said. Almost at once in mind's flight we are at the prestigious 
                        Philadelphia
                     Academy of Natural Sciences where the young scientist began his American
                        Entomology—and where he came under the spell of the great William Maclure.
                    Together they became disciples of Robert Owen, the New Lanark spinner, who managed to alter human
                    relations in his own time. Maclure, the retired and wealthy merchant, was a sort of a patron
                    Macaenas for this young Horace. Together they went to 
                        New Harmony
                    , port of the famed Boatload of Knowledge, Gerard Troost, Josiah 
                        Warren
                    , Joseph Neef, and their scientist associates. Arthur Bestor was to call it one of the
                    backwoods utopias.
            But it was there, we recall, Thomas Say wrote and printed his American Conchology, the monumental
                    collection and description of shells. Hand colored under the guidance of the little lady who became
                    his wife, the colors are as delicate and faithful as they were almost a century and a half ago.
            
            Oh, some will say, you have led us out of the main surge of history and into a tiny byway along the 
                        Wabash
                    . Perhaps, but it is a delightful pause to observe once more the artistry and ingenuity
                    of men and women in this western wilderness, to wonder at the remarkable industry of the Rappites
                    and the massive contribution of the Owenites, in education, the diffusion of knowledge, the rights
                    of women, the advancement of science.
            If you listen, you can almost hear the chant of the talented Alsatian Joseph Neef, friend and student
                    of great Swiss educator, Pestalozzi, and the excited classroom of Madame Marie Fretageot, master
                    teacher and disciple. Nearby, the patient Constantine Rafinesque works, scholar in almost a score of
                    fields: geology, botany, icthyology, art, music, literature. Today, as the Department of Interior
                    surveys the remarkable Devonian and Silurian fossils at the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     for a national monument, it should be remembered that it was Rafinesque who first
                    discovered them and reported their existence to scientists throughout the world.
            We can hear William Maclure, ever ready for debate, give his opinion on various subjects. He was the
                    visionary who frightened the pioneer countryside by advocating universal education and by financing
                    workingmen's libraries.
            And standing in a row, Robert Owen's progeny—whose combined contributions to our
                    state are enormous: the talented Robert Dale Owen, statesman, educator, principal draftsman of our
                    Constitution of 1851, advocate of social justice; David Dale Owen, great geologist, articulate
                    scientist; Richard Owen, distinguished educator, long time teacher on this campus, and first
                    president of Purdue University; William Owen, scientist, imaginative scholar. Four great sons, all
                    became American citizens as did their bright and charming sister, Jane Owen Fauntleroy. Strange, it
                    is, their mother never came from 
                        Scotland
                     to be with them, but the Dale name and the strong blood line lingers on to this day.
            And we catch the name of Clark on the map, General George Rogers Clark, the intrepid 
                        Virginia
                     redhead, who, by sheer courage, wrested the western land from the British.
            
            
               NEW HARMONY, DAVID DALE OWEN, 1830 Reproduced from R. C. Buley, The Old
                            Northwest: Pioneer Period, 1815-1840 (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1950), II.
            
            
            
               STATUE OF GEORGE ROGERS CLARK, QUINCY, ILLINOIS Reproduced from James A.
                        James, The Life of George Rogers Clark (
                            Chicago
                        . 1928).
            
            
            
               PORTION OF INDIANA STATE SONG
               
               Reproduced from 1897 copy of sheet music.
               Courtesy Lilly Library
            
            
            
               ELIHU STOUT, FATHER OF THE HOOSIER PRESS Reproduced from Daniel McDonald, A History of Freemasonry in Indiana from 1806 to 1898 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1898).
            
            
            What an exciting life—he had traveled the western country before he could vote; he knew
                    the Kanawha, the Muskingum, the Miami, the Licking, like you know the streets of the city. So much
                    has been told of him, we can see him as though he were striding by—restless, resourceful,
                    strong, ambitious, as accurate with an expletive as he was with a long rifle. Respected among men
                    but wasteful with his own talents, his days ended in bitterness and despair. But enough of that, I shall see him in my imagination as Colonel English, Mr. James, and Professor
                    Lockridge pictured him at 
                        Kaskaskia
                     or drenched by driving rains from Cahokia all the way east to 
                        Vincennes
                    —the superb warrior of the woods, bringing the British to their knees.
            Already a hero for fifty years, Francis Vigo is there on the map. This frontier tradesman was as
                    sharp, they say, as any who ever sailed the 
                        China
                     Sea, part pirate, part entrepreneur, but mostly true patriot. Without his financial aid
                    the western cause would have been lost. But his patriotism, his faith in the young nation, is
                    preserved forever in the county along the 
                        Wabash
                    .
            The 
                        Wabash
                    —magic word to Hoosiers! Paul Dresser, who lived nearby as a boy, gave us our
                    song. Dreaming one day in his home along the Hudson, he let nostalgia quicken him to the immortal
                    "On the Banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    "—the song that never fails to make a Hoosier heart skip a
                    beat—whether he be at Shepheards in Cairo or hunting the Alaskan tundra.
            As we turn another page, we are reminded that the books stir different and varied memories in each of
                    us. It should not be otherwise. Thomas Carlyle said, "All that Mankind has done, thought,
                    gained or been it is lying as in magic preservation in the pages of Books." There are, in
                    the stroll down memory lane, dreams and hopes, contentment, excitement, happiness, and sadness for
                    all. These are the rich dividends of the great storehouse of books and pieces of the past. Upon
                    these we reflect—and weigh them and fit them into the course of useful lives.
            
            
               EARLIEST SURVIVING ITEM FROM HARMONY SOCIETY PRESS, 1824 Courtesy
                        Lilly Library
            
            
            Why archives, the cynic says? Why preserve the relics of the past?
            The obvious answer is that these furnish the scholar the most reliable source for continued study of
                    the past. It recalls the adage that "Historians repeat each other more often than history
                    repeats itself." But, the critic says, why history at all? Is it, as Mr. Ford once said, in
                    a moment which should have been more guarded, pure bunk! Or was Master Shakespeare nearer right when
                    he said, "What is past is prologue"? Is it true, as wise men have said, that any
                    nation which fails to heed the mistakes of the past, is bound to repeat them?
            The Constitution, the legislative journals, and the acts of the general assemblies in the catalog are
                    instances in point. They cover virtually every subject—proof almost positive that there
                    is nothing new under the sun. Political scientists would do well to keep an informed eye on the past
                    in developing panaceas for progress.
            Or the statute of the Territory Northwest of the River Ohio, once the domain of
                    proud 
                        Virginia
                    ! Memory reminds us that 
                        Kentucky
                     has title to the bed of the Ohio River to low-water mark on the
                    northwest side, and its current significance is that the title and the line are now the subjects of
                    litigation between the State of 
                        Ohio
                     and the Commonwealth of 
                        Kentucky
                     in the Supreme Court of the 
                        United States
                    .
            In a twinkle, we are off again in our garden of memories. Why was the line on the Indiana side?
                    George Wythe, Benjamin Harrison and Patrick Henry and the House of Burgesses wanted it so. Control
                    of the only sure pathway through the wilderness was vital in the course of empire.
            And we see our own laws were then printed in 
                        Kentucky
                    , at 
                        Lexington
                     or 
                        Louisville
                    . The journeymen printers had not yet brought their lead pots and cumbersome presses
                    across the mountains. Soon we would see a John Scott, a Stout, a 
                        Kent
                    , a 
                        Norman
                    , or a Smith at Paoli, Corydon, or 
                        Vincennes
                     with their presses. 
                        Kentucky
                     imprints would shortly disappear.
            
            Yes, archives are the lamps which help to illuminate the past, lighting the manners, the thoughts,
                    the dreams, the progress of those who have gone before. They are the one faithful guide for the
                    steps of the historian. They are the grist for the scholar's mill.
            They do not, certainly, furnish the facts for the whole story of civilization—most of
                    which is hidden in the mists of history. For that we look to the archaeologist—and the
                    artifacts that he laboriously uncovers—the paleontologist, the geologist. But the
                    archivists, who hold the writings and the graphic pieces of days gone by, can give to those who will
                    look, an intimate and genuine view of the past.
            Those who give of their bounty, their talent and time to so add to the storehouse of knowledge
                    deserve eminence among men and the name of blessed. Mr. J. K. Lilly stands among them.
         
         
         
            Edward Eggleston: Evolution of a Historian
            Thorp L. Wolford*
            
            In 1837, near the beginning of his career, Emerson greeted the young scholars of 
                        Harvard
                     at the commencement of their literary year with a stirring appeal for a new kind of
                    scholarship, devoid of complacency and pedantry. He stated that literature was beginning to concern
                    itself with "the philosophy of the street" and "the meaning of household
                    life," and he called this development one of the "auspicious signs of the coming
                        days."1
            
            That same year, a thousand miles away in the Indiana village of 
                        Vevay
                    , Edward Eggleston was born. Destiny was to lead him to a day near the end of his career
                    when he would greet the eminent scholars of the American Historical Association at the commencement
                    of a new century with a plea for the writing of a "New History." It would be free
                    of outmoded traditions and would concern itself with "the little details of life"
                    which, according to Eggleston, gave history its true vitality and significance. He, like Emerson in
                    1837, saw auspicious signs in 1900 of better days to come.2
            
            Eggleston's achievements could not have been foreseen in 1837, but his emergence from
                    boyhood both on and near the frontier to prominence as a pioneer scholar in cultural history was a
                    natural evolution. Recalling his origins from the vantage point of later years, Eggleston noted that
                    he had begun life in an intellectual atmosphere. His father graduated from William and Mary College
                    with very high honors before he died in 1846, and he exerted a strong influence on his son.
                    Edward's mother, a child prodigy, was said 
                  
                     * Thorp L. Wolford is lecturer in English at University
                            College, University of 
                        Louisville,
                                    Louisville, Kentucky
                     .
                  
                     1 Ralph Waldo Emerson, "The American Scholar," The Complete Writings of Ralph Waldo Emerson (
                                New York
                            , 1929), 34-35.
                  
                     2 Edward Eggleston, "The New History," Annual Report
                            of the American Historical Association for the year 1900 (2 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1901), I, 38, 47. Eggleston read Emerson from childhood, and there were
                            significant parallels in the thoughts and careers of the two men. See James A. Rawley,
                            "Some New Light on Edward Eggleston," American
                            Literature, XI (January, 1940), 466, and Harlan DeBaun Logan, "An Unpublished
                            Journal of Edward Eggleston's with Supplementary Letters" (M.A. thesis,
                            Dept. of History, Indiana University, 1932), 97, 100.
               
                     to have read Pilgrim's Progress before she was four
                    years old. All four of their children were novelists; Edward and his brother, George Cary, also
                    became journalists and historians.3
            
            Although Eggleston disclaimed the credit of being a self-made man, he was largely self-educated. His
                    total school attendance after the age of ten was only eighteen months.4
                    Nevertheless, he acquired the kind of education which served him well in future years when he turned
                    his major attention to social history. Before he was twenty-five, he dabbled in six or seven
                    languages; and five years before his death he told a reporter that he read French, Italian, Spanish,
                    and usually Latin without a dictionary and three other languages with the aid of one.
                    "Dutch," he said, "I have taken up in the last year or two."5 The habits and intellectual curiosity of youth continued throughout his life.
            He never forgot the disappointment he experienced when ill health prevented his attending Indiana
                    Asbury University (now DePauw), but the years brought an awareness of compensating factors.
                    "Something, no doubt, I lost;" he wrote in 1890, "but I am not sure that
                    the gain did not more than compensate for it."6 He recalled the habit
                    of independent study which he had acquired. As a youth he read English drama, Racine,
                    Molière, and Corneille, although religious scruples kept him from reading novels or
                    seeing plays performed at that time. Sometimes he rose at four to read Virgil or Xenophon. Other
                    reading included Gray's "Elegy," which was a favorite of his childhood;
                    Irving's Sketch Book, which awakened all his impulses to a literary life;
                    Lamb's Works, which provided an antidote to the priggery found in certain
                    other moralistic reading; and the Aeneid and Paradise 
                     
                        3 Edward Eggleston, "Formative Influences," The Forum, X (November, 1890), 280-82. The romantic novels of George
                                Cary Eggleston offer an interesting contrast to Edward's regional realism.
                                Jennie, as Edward's sister Jane Lowry was commonly called, published a
                                temperance novel, Gray Heads on Green Shoulders; but Joe, another
                                brother, never found a publisher for his novel, Carry Me Back. William Randel, Edward Eggleston (
                                    New York
                                , 1963), 21.
                     
                        4 Eggleston, "Formative Influences," 280, 283.
                     
                        5
                                Ibid., 283. "Edward Eggleston: An Interview," The Outlook, LV (February 6, 1897). 435.
                     
                        6 Eggleston, "Formative Influences," 283.
                  
                        
                        
                     EDWARD EGGLESTON'S BIRTHPLACE, VEVAY, INDIANA
                     
                     Reproduced from John Drury, Historic Midwest Horses (
                                    Minneapolis
                                , 1947).
                  
                         Lost.
               7 This breadth of interest
                    revealed a spirit that would transcend the narrow confines of frontier Methodism and reject the
                    limitations of traditional American historiography.
            Eggleston witnessed varied aspects of the life of southern Indiana while it was still a young state.
                    Singing schools, lyceums, camp meetings, barbecues, fairs, and circuses were frequent forms of
                    entertainment in the Indiana of his boyhood. He later drew heavily upon his memory of these events
                    to provide background for his fiction and comparisons with colonial life in his historical
                        studies.8 In 
                        Vevay
                    , where he spent his earliest years, he observed a pioneer society in which both French
                    and English were still commonly spoken. In 
                        Decatur County
                    , where his family spent the summer of 1850 with relatives, he found a more primitive
                    life. There he first heard the back-country Hoosier dialect, which he subsequently preserved in The Hoosier School-Master, and acquired an interest in philology, which led to his
                    friendship with 
                        Lowell
                     and such historical studies as "Folk-Speech in America."9
                    
                        Madison
                     and New 
                        Albany
                    , where the family lived briefly in the early 1850's, were larger than 
                        Vevay
                     and represented a more advanced society.
            Although Eggleston spent most of his later years in the East, in 1890 he declared that he retained
                    "enough of local prejudice to feel that I should have lost more than I could have gained,
                    had I been born near 
                        Plymouth
                     Rock or on Beacon Hill." In fact, when his 
                        Vevay
                     teacher said she graded 
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 283-84; Edward Eggleston, "Books That Have Helped
                            Me," The Forum, III (August, 1887), 579, 682-83. Even in his days
                            of greatest religious dedication his thoughts expanded into other realms. Years later he
                            recalled a day when, riding his circuit, he alternately read 
                                Milton
                            's "L'Allegro" and looked off "at
                            the poetic landscape" until he "was lifted out of the sordid world into
                            the region of imagination and creation." Ibid., 584. He named his
                            next child Allegra.
                  
                     8 See Logan Esarey, "Elements of Culture in the Old
                            Northwest," Indiana Magazine of History, LIII (September, 1957),
                            257-64.
                  
                     9 See Edward Eggleston, "Folk-Speech in America,"
                                The Century Magazine, XLVIII (October, 1894), 867-76, and Edward
                            Eggleston, "Preface to the Library Edition," The Hoosier
                                School-Master: A Novel (Revised, with an introduction and notes on the dialect, 
                                Chicago
                            , 1892), 5-27. [Referred to hereafter as Library Edition to distinguish it from
                            Edward Eggleston, The Hoosier School-Master: A Novel (
                                New York
                            , 1871).] Other novels by Edward Eggleston referred to in this article are The End of the World: A Love Story (
                                New York
                            , 1872); The Mystery of Metropolisville (
                                New York
                            , 1873); The Circuit Rider: A Tale of the Heroic Age (
                                New York
                            , 1874); Roxy (
                                New York
                            , 1878); The Hoosier School-Boy (
                                New York
                            , 1883); The Graysons: A Story of 
                                    Illinois
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1888); and The Faith Doctor: A Story of 
                                    New York
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1891).
               
                     his composition severely because he was "destined to
                    become an author," Eggleston confessed, "I was as happy as though I had achieved
                    more fame than will ever fall to my lot."10
            
            In 1854 a still different type of society made its impression on Eggleston when he went to Amelia in
                    tidewater 
                        Virginia
                     to live with his father's relatives. Despite their generous hospitality, he
                    declined to remain more than thirteen months and to accept the further social and educational
                    advantages which were offered. He was uncomfortable in a society dependent upon slavery and
                    offensive to his religious ardor. Although this experience did not alter his aversion to slavery, it
                    gave him a basis for understanding the dilemma of the South in the Civil War era. While
                    acknowledging the loveable quality of the Virginians he had visited, he said in retrospect: 
                        Though I saw slavery in its mildest form among my relations, I could not be blind to the
                            essential and manifold injustices and the unavoidable cruelties of the system. From the time
                            of my visit to 
                                Virginia
                            , I counted myself an abolitionist. But I always resented the abusive terms in
                            which the more violent abolitionists were wont to speak of the southern people. I very much
                            doubt whether history will not conclude that a more moderate style of speech on the part of
                            the anti-slavery men would have much better served their cause.11
                  
                    
            
            Edward returned to Indiana in 1855, but his health soon deteriorated. In May of 1856, at the age of
                    eighteen, he persuaded his mother to let him go alone to 
                        Minnesota
                     Territory, which was then reputed to have a beneficial climate. There he saw frontier
                    life in the most primitive stage he had yet encountered. He became a part of this life, carrying the
                    chain for a surveying party and driving a triple yoke of oxen with a plow breaking new ground. After
                    two or three months in 
                        Minnesota
                     he returned to Indiana with restored health, walking nearly four hundred miles of the
                    distance. He arrived home penniless and exhausted, but he had added another chapter to his
                    observation of life in the 
                        United States
                    .12
            
            Both the satisfactions and the hardships Eggleston experienced in his early years prepared him to
                    understand and interpret life as novelist and historian. When his novels about the interior valley
                    began to win attention in the 1870's, Eggleston acknowledged, "I was only drawing
                    on the resources 
                  
                     10 Eggleston, "Formative Influences," 279, 283.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 288.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 288-89.
               
                     which the very peculiar circumstances of my life had put at my
                        disposal."13
            
            Eggleston naturally turned to the ministry as his first major vocation. He was reared in a Methodist
                    home in a community where Methodists observed the Sabbath with a severity reminiscent of that of the
                    Puritans whose history Eggleston later pursued.14 The marriage of his young
                    widowed mother in 1850 to Williamson Terrell, a Methodist minister,15 was a
                    further influence on Edward's religious career.
            At the age of twelve or thirteen Edward, spurred by certain religious books in the family library,
                    had followed a rigorous devotional schedule which John Wesley had recommended for preachers. He rose
                    at four, prayed on his knees a solid hour, prayed at other specified times throughout the day, and
                    imposed upon himself a sparse diet.16 This religious impulse also found
                    expression in a private diary he kept while visiting in 
                        Virginia
                     in 1855. On February 4 he recorded a self-rebuke for pride in his own prayers, and the
                    following week he wrote, 
                  
                     
                        "O that I were perfectly holy."
                     
                  
                On June 2, 1855, he asked in his diary, 
                  
                     
                        "How have I spent this week? What a solemn thought! The actions the words
                                    the thoughts of another week are irrevocably recorded against the day of
                                    Judgment."
                     
                  
                When Eggleston began his historical studies of Puritanism, he could readily comprehend the
                    impulse reflected in the Personal Narrative and other writings of one of its greatest defenders,
                    Jonathan Edwards.17
            
            On Eggleston's return to Indiana from 
                        Minnesota
                     in 1856, while still eighteen years old, he began a career as 
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., 290.
                  
                     14 George Cary Eggleston recalled that when he and Edward were growing
                            up in 
                                Madison
                             it was "held to be sinful to take a bath on Sunday, or to shave, or to
                            brush one's shoes on that day… . No cooking of any kind was
                            permitted," and George's walks in the woods between religious services
                            were abruptly terminated after the minister protested to his mother. George Cary Eggleston,
                                The First of the Hoosiers (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1903), 122, 123.
                  
                     15 Randel, Edwwd Eggleston, 29.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 27.
                  
                     17 Edward Eggleston, "Private Diary," quoted in
                            Randel, Edward Eggleston, 34. The parallel in religious intensity of
                            Eggleston and Edwards is striking. Eggleston wished in February, 1855, that he
                            "could be instrumental in the conversion of some of my schoolmates" and
                            resolved in 1857, if possible, to "pray every hour to keep the fire
                            burning." Logan, "Unpublished Journal of Edward
                            Eggleston's," 23, 37. Edwards noted that as a youth he "used to
                            pray five times a day in sew&, and to spend much time in religious talk with other
                            boys… ." Jonathan Edwards, "Personal Narrative,"
                            Clarence H. Faust and Thomas H. Johnson (eds.), Jonathan Edwards:
                                Representative Selections (rev. ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1962), 57.
               
                     circuit rider in typical Methodist fashion. "I was put
                    astride a horse," he recalled, "with my wardrobe in a pair of saddlebags, and sent
                    to ride a four-week circuit, with ten preaching places, among the rough Ohio
                    River hills of 
                        Dearborn County
                    , Indiana."18 Soon his health deteriorated; and he went
                    back to 
                        Minnesota
                     in 1857, undergoing even greater hardships on the frontier as circuit rider and Bible
                    agent. His annual report to the American Bible Society illustrated both the demands of the office
                    and the devotion it evoked: 
                        In the ten months, while my health permitted me to labour, I travelled from two thousand five
                            hundred to three thousand miles… . I have spent half a night in an uninhabited
                            prairie in the most frightful rain and thunder storm I have ever known. I have …
                            frozen portions of my body at times; yet so highly do I estimate the work that gladly would
                            the agent continue to labour in this great field did health permit.19
                  
                    
            
            Eggleston remained in 
                        Minnesota
                     from 1857 to 1866. There he acquired experiences which enabled him to describe
                    realistically in The Circuit Rider the dedication of the frontier ministry and
                    later to portray sympathetically the difficulties of the New 
                        England
                     Puritans in his historical works. After he became engaged in historical research,
                    Eggleston looked back upon his time spent in this frontier work "with considerable
                    satisfaction." He had learned to meet emergencies and to know human life in its rudimentary
                    conditions. "Are not these," he asked, "as well worth learning as the art
                    of scanning Virgil, the list of ships in Homer, or Caesar's method of building a military
                    bridge?" Recalling the frontier preachers with whom he had been associated, he called it
                    "the privilege of a lifetime to have known a company of men so sincere and disinterested as
                    most of these were."20
            
            In 
                        Minnesota
                     in the 1860's Eggleston's preaching was sufficiently orthodox for him
                    to receive desirable pastorates in churches at Stillwater, 
                        St. Paul
                    , and 
                        Winona
                    .21 Nevertheless, 
                  
                     18 Eggleston, "Formative Influences," 289.
                  
                     19 Quoted in Randel, Edward Eggleston, 53.
                  
                     20 Eggleston, "Formative Influences," 290.
                  
                     21 Manuscripts of many sermon outlines from Eggleston's 
                                Minnesota
                             period are deposited in the John M. Olin Research Library, Cornell University,
                                    
                        Ithaca, New York
                     . Microfilm copies of a portion of this
                            collection are in the Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            . One of the sermons in this collection, delivered at Stillwater on October 21,
                            1860, on the theme of "Depravity," took its text from a passage in
                            Jeremiah, "The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately
                            wicked… ." While not typical of the bulk of Eggleston's output,
                            this does recall the uncompromising words of Edwards in his famous "Sinners in the
                            Hands of an Angry God." Most of Eggleston's themes preserved from this
                            period of his ministry were conventional and not as extreme as this.
               
                     he showed tendencies toward a broader outlook than most of his
                    fellow ministers possessed. While risking his life "to preach in undaubed cabins with the
                    thermometer below zero," he had "often carried a volume of poetry, a scientific
                    book, or perhaps a tome of French dramas."22 He carried a volume of
                    Thomas à Kempis, too; but eventually à Kempis was relegated to the top shelf
                    of his library. "I would rather walk in wide fields with Charles Darwin," he said
                    in later years; "… the objective life seems the better."23
            
            In 1890 Eggleston observed that the duality of his past still lingered. "Two manner of men
                    were in me," he recalled, "and for the greater part of my life there has been an
                    enduring struggle between the lover of literary art and the religionist… ."24 He attributed to his early religious impulse a "serious view of
                    life" and "the highest moral aspirations." Nevertheless, he compared his
                    liberation from its restrictions to that which society experienced as it advanced from the Middle
                    Ages to the Renaissance and from Puritanism to Unitarianism. "I also had my period of
                    renaissance," he said, "—that exhilaration [sic]
                    … which the liberated mind feels in the rebound from constraint, and which carries
                    it… to a higher level than it might otherwise have attained."25
            
            What Eggleston called his "accursed versatility" of interest drew him from the
                    ministry to the field of journalism in 1866. He had published a few articles and Indian stories
                        
                  
                     22 Eggleston, "Formative Influences," 290.
                  
                     23 Eggleston, "Books That Have Helped Me," 586. As
                            early as September 16, 1860, Eggleston delivered a sermon at Stillwater in which he invoked
                            an evolutionary argument as support for a belief in Christianity. Nature, he argued, showed
                            that there must always be a first cause. Christianity had led to the current western
                            culture. Then he asked the members of his congregation if they would willingly exchange
                            their Christian culture for any of the inhumane ones of ancient civilizations. The
                            manuscript is in the Cornell collection. Microfilm copy, Lilly Library, Indiana University.
                  
                     24 Eggleston, "Formative Influences," 286.
                            Eggleston, who sometimes felt that he had wasted his early years, must have been reminded of
                            his own career in 1888 when he described Dean George Berkeley's nave sacrifice in
                            leaving 
                                England
                             to found a college for Indians in Bermuda. Berkeley spent most of his time in
                            the new world not as missionary "but as the thinker nature had made him."
                            His plan failed and he returned to 
                                England
                            . Eggleston commented, "there had probably come to him …
                            that disillusion which is hardest of all to bear—the discovery that in following
                            an impulse entirely generous, one has misunderstood his vocation, wasted his best
                            years… ." Edward Eggleston, "The Church of 
                                England
                             in the Colonies," The Century Magazine, XXXVI (May,
                            1888), 119.
                  
                     25 Eggleston, "Formative Influences," 285.
               
                     before June, 1866, when he moved to 
                        Chicago
                     and became associate editor of The Little Colonel, a magazine for
                    children. In the next four years he assumed editorial posts on The Sunday School
                        Teacher, The Independent, and Hearth and Home.
               26
                    After the enthusiastic reception given The Hoosier School-Master, which appeared
                    in Hearth and Home from September to December, 1871, Eggleston turned his
                    attention increasingly to fiction, approaching it with the zeal of an evangelist and the fidelity of
                    a historian.
            The chief impulse that inspired Eggleston's novels was his desire to record faithfully
                    segments of the American life he had observed which were in danger of being forgotten. The Hoosier School-Master portrayed a backwoods Hoosier community so realistically that
                    one critic aptly termed it "in one sense a chapter in the history of the middle western
                        frontier."27 The next year, when Eggleston wrote The
                        End of the World, he explained that "the picture of Western country life in
                    ‘The Hoosier School-Master’ would not have been complete without this
                    companion-piece, which presents a different phase of it."28 In The Mystery of Metropolisville he stated, "A novel should be the truest
                    of books. It partakes … of the nature of both history and art. … I have wished
                    to make my stories of value as a contribution to the history of civilization in
                        America."29
            
            Perhaps the strongest assertion of his purpose, however, was made in the Preface to The
                        Circuit Rider. Here Eggleston described a way of life which had demanded and received from
                    him the highest degree of dedication and sacrifice. After observing that some might be offended
                    because he portrayed "the rude as well as the heroic side of early Methodism," he
                    begged such persons to
            
                    remember the solemn obligations of a novelist to tell the truth. Lawyers and even ministers are
                        permitted to speak entirely on one side. But no man is worthy to be called a novelist who does
                        not endeavor with his whole soul to produce the higher form of history, by writing …
                        dispassionately of those forms of life that come within his scope.30
               
                
            
               
                  26 Randel, Edward Eggleston, 61-62, 69-73, 78-84, 86-89.
               
                  27 John T. Flanagan, "The Novels of Edward Eggleston,"
                            College English, V (February, 1944), 251.
               
                  28 Eggleston, The End of the World, 7.
               
                  29 Eggleston, The Mystery of Metropolisville, 7. In the
                        course of the narrative Eggleston excused his failure to elaborate upon a situation by saying,
                        "As an authentic historian, I am bound to limit myself to the simple fact."
                            Ibid., 98.
               
                  30 Eggleston, The Circuit Rider, vii.
            
            
            
               EDWARD EGGLESTON, 1875 Reproduced from George Cary
                        Eggleston, The First of the Hoosiers (
                            Philadelphia
                        ,1903).
            
            
            In retrospect, Eggleston was able to make a dispassionate estimate of his fiction with which most
                    critics would agree: "Whatever may be the rank assigned to these stories as works of
                    literary art, they will always have a certain value as materials for the student of social
                        history."31 No American regional realist was more conscientious in
                    his attempt to convey a true impression of the society he described.
            Just as Eggleston the historian would later insist upon obtaining his facts from original sources, so
                    Eggleston the novelist gathered material for his fiction from the most original of all
                    sources—his own experiences and observations and accounts he acquired directly from
                    participants. In The Hoosier School-Master he used actual names of some of the
                    characters described.32 In The Circuit Rider he recalled
                    "the forms and weather-beaten visages of the old preachers" who had survived
                    alligators, Indians, robbers, and fevers for their religion; and he retold their story. In The Faith Doctor he had one important character express ideas "taken
                    almost verbatim from the writings of those who claim to be expounders of Christian
                        science."33
            
            Even as a novelist Eggleston utilized the techniques of a historian, sometimes to the artistic
                    detriment of his fiction. He was tempted "to append some remarks … upon the
                        
                  
                     31 Eggleston, "Formative Influences," 286. Nicholson
                            predicted in 1902 that "when The Hoosier Schoolmaster and Roxy cease to entertain
                            as fiction they will teach as history." He commented that the pioneer days of
                            Indiana were past, and "but for Eggleston's tales there would be no
                            trustworthy record of the period he describes." Meredith Nicholson,
                            "Edward Eggleston," The Atlantic Monthly, XC (December,
                            1902), 804, 807. Nearly fifty years later Leisy called Eggleston's novels about
                            frontier folk and social customs "sound historical documents." Ernest E.
                            Leisy, The American Historical Novel (
                                Norman
                            , Okla., 1950), 125. Another critic has called Eggleston's Hoosier
                            novels "indispensable documents, even finished chapters, for his uncompleted
                            [historical] masterpiece." William P. Trent et al. (eds.), The 
                                    Cambridge
                                 History of American Literature (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1947), III, 76.
                  
                     32 Nicholson, "Edward Eggleston," 806.
                            Eggleston's portrayal of Hannah, the bound girl in the novel, provides an example
                            of a thread running from Eggleston's life through his novels to his history. She
                            was suggested by Jane Burnett, a thirteen-year-old girl who was entrusted with the care of
                            George and Edward when they were children in 
                                Vevay
                            . G. C. Eggleston, First of The Hoosiers, 30, 37. The terms of
                            her indenture are set forth in Effa Morrison Danner, "Edward Eggleston,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIII (December, 1937), 437n.
                            Subsequently, Eggleston traced the origins of colonial trade in bond servants in his
                            "Social Conditions in the Colonies," The Century
                            Magazine, XXVIII (October, 1884), 853ff.
                  
                     33 Eggleston, The Circuit Rider, vi; Eggleston, The Faith Doctor, 4.
               
                     dialect" in the first edition of The
                        Hoosier School-Master. Twenty-one years later in the Library Edition he not only discussed
                    the differences and origins of Indiana dialect in a new Preface but also appended footnotes to the
                    narrative on such topics as the divisions of Baptists and the custom of pronouncing a
                    "y" sound before certain words.34 In Roxy
                    footnotes were used to define "sugar-water" and to trace the evolution of the
                    expression, "muley cow"; and in The End of the World a footnote
                    deplored the omission of a provincialism in dictionaries.35
            
            Eggleston used pictorial as well as literary art to produce verisimilitude in his fiction as he did
                    in the eighties in his historical articles and textbooks. The spelling bee in The
                        Hoosier School-Master, the castle and sedilium in The End of the World,
                    and the spring house in The Circuit Rider are visually illustrated, the latter
                    being accompanied by a detailed verbal description of its measurements, location, and
                        composition.36 Descriptions of the camp meeting in The Circuit
                        Rider and the Whig barbecue and the village funeral in Roxy may be read
                    as social history with little or no change. Eggleston's sense of historical perspective is
                    also apparent in The Hoosier School-Boy where he describes the master's
                    stick used "under the rule of President Fillmore" as the same which "had
                    beaten the boys in the log school-house in the days of John Quincy Adams and Andrew
                        Jackson."37
            
            Ordinary activities such as hoedowns, turkey-shoots, and marriage festivities were
                    Eggleston's chief interest in fiction as they would become in his history. He complained in
                    1884 that most novelists neglected the chowder and the county fair, adding, "But we shall
                    never have a genuinely American literature so long as we shrink from the life of our common 
                  
                     34 Eggleston, The Hoosier School-Master, 7;
                            Eggleston, The Hoosier School-Master (Library Edition), 5-27, 134n, 43. In
                            1894 Eggleston as historian called attention to a document evincing a similar pronunciation
                            in 
                                Delaware
                             much earlier. Eggleston, "Folk-Speech in America," 874.
                  
                     35 Eggleston, Roxy, 207n, 15n; Eggleston, The End of the World, 37n.
                  
                     36 Eggleston, The Circuit Rider, 96, 94. Novels were
                            highly regarded for their illustrations as well as their narratives. The title pages of the
                            first editions of The Hoosier School-Master and The End of
                                the World stated, for example, that the novels contained twenty-nine and thirty-two
                            illustrations, respectively.
                  
                     37 See Eggleston, The Circuit Rider, 104, and
                            Eggleston, Roxy, 10, 78-79; Eggleston, The Hoosier
                            School-Boy, 85.
               
                     people."38 It is significant that
                    when he wrote The Graysons he avoided any suggestion that one of his characters
                    named Abraham Lincoln eventually became president of the 
                        United States
                    .
            After the publication of his first four novels between 1871 and 1874, Eggleston accepted the
                    pastorate of a church in 
                  Brooklyn, New York
               , in 1875. By this time his intellectual
                    and ethical concern had gained such ascendency over his early pietism that he required the church to
                    become nondenominational as a condition for his acceptance. Under its new name and
                    Eggleston's leadership, this "Church of Christian Endeavor" received
                    members holding varying doctrinal beliefs, built up its library, and sponsored discussions of such
                    topics as the tariff, trade unionism, and the relations of capital and labor.39
                    During Eggleston's 
                        Brooklyn
                     pastorate he voiced strong criticism of his more pretentious fellow ministers.
                    "For if Christ were to come … in the overalls of a working-man, repudiating our
                    social pride and our pride of orthodoxy," he asked, "… do you think we
                    should know him?"40 His hatred of hypocrisy came to particular
                    prominence in this final ministry and evinced a standard by which he subsequently measured men and
                    events in his historical studies.
            Reflecting the beliefs of Emerson, who was still alive in Concord, Eggleston declared that if
                    "a man has a high sense of right and wrong, and a fearless self-reliance,"
                    regardless of creed, "he will be a tonic to the moral nature of men."41 His faith in the gradual improvement of society was also expressed in words
                    which indicated his developing philosophy of history:
            
                    We live at the dawning of a better time… . The severe … parson passes away.
                        No longer, clad in … funereal black, shall he 
                     
                        38 Edward Eggleston, "Americans at Play," The Century Magazine, XXVIII (August, 1884), 555. In the
                                "Words Beforehand" to The Mystery of
                                Metropolisville, 12, Eggleston wrote, "The history of 
                                    Athens
                                 is not of value on account of its temples and statues, but on account of
                                its men and women." This statement foreshadowed his future approach to history.
                     
                        39 G. C. Eggleston, First of the Hoosiers,
                                361-64.
                     
                        40 Edward Eggleston, " ‘To the
                                Clergy,’" Scribner's Monthly, XVII
                                (February, 1879), 490.
                     
                        41 Edward Eggleston, "Parsons and Parsons," Scribner's Monthly, XVII (November, 1878), 141. Admonishing
                                "parsons who wear uniforms of sanctity in the cut of their coats,"
                                Eggleston said, "Your name being Peter Smith, do you be Peter Smith; stand on
                                your manhood and not on your office… ." Ibid.,
                                139. This was a principal theme of Emerson's "American
                                Scholar" address in 1837.
                  
                         sit like Poe's raven, cawing a sepulcral
                        "nevermore" to the despairing human spirit. The strong men of our time know
                        how much better is love than fear, hope than despair…,42
               
                
            In the late 1870's Eggleston's outlook became increasingly secular. It was partly
                    as a matter of principle that he resigned his final pastorate in 1879 and sailed for Europe. Also,
                    his health had again worsened, and about this time he wrote to his daughter that he had 
                  
                     
                        "rather lost interest in this thing we call life."
                     
                  
               
               43
            
            Before Eggleston left America, his friend, Roswell Smith, suggested that he connect his name
                    "with a great historical work." The idea did not excite him at the moment, but by
                    the time he reached 
                        England
                     the purpose became fixed. "I was not interested in polities or wars,"
                    he said later, "but felt that I should like to write a history of life in the 
                        United States
                    , finding suggestions in the modern school of French historians."44
            
            There were many reasons why Eggleston was attracted by this project. Already his fictional writings
                    had given evidence of his interest in social history, but he had grown weary of writing novels. This
                    was a new challenge in the direction in which his thought was tending. Writing to his daughter in
                    1880, he said, 
                  
                     
                        "My project of a ‘History of Life in the 
                                        United States
                                    ' interests me much… . But it is a life work almost.
                                    … I am ripe for it. Everything in my life seems to have prepared me for
                                    it."
                     
                  
               
               45 Recalling, in 1897, his rapid changes in youth "from one
                    social environment to 
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., 146.
                  
                     43 Edward Eggleston to Mrs. Elizabeth E. Seelye, July 5, 1880, quoted
                            in Charles Hirschfeld, "Edward Eggleston: Pioneer in Social History," Eric
                            F. Goldman (ed.), Historiography and Urbanization: Essays in American History
                                in Honor of W. Stull Holt (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1941), 189.
                  
                     44 "Eggleston: An Interview," 433, 434.
                  
                     45 Eggleston to Mrs. Elizabeth E. Seelye, June 14, 1880, quoted in
                            Hirschfeld, "Edward Eggleston," 190. He wrote his brother early that year
                            that he was prepared to devote the next ten years of his life to the project but said that
                            it was not really a new departure for "I have been writing history all the time in
                            my novels." G. C. Eggleston, First of the Hoosiers, 363, 104-105.
                            The project was greater than he realized, and his two completed volumes only carried the
                            story to about 1640. One critic calculated that "had the work proceeded on the same
                            scale to the end of the nineteenth century it would have gone to forty volumes."
                            Trent, 
                        
                                    Cambridge
                                 History of American Literature, III, 191-92.
               
                     another," he said, "That preparation, quite as
                    much as any natural bent, gave me the tendency to write a history of life." His resolve was
                    strengthened near the beginning of his new career, when after he told Francis Parkman of some of his
                    experiences, Parkman responded, "You are the only man in America that can write a history
                    of life in the 
                        United States
                    ; you are the only man who has seen so many forms of our life."46
            
            Eggleston approached his new labors with eager anticipation. He wrote his daughter in 1880: 
                  
                     
                        What chapters I can write on "Religious Life in New 
                                        England
                                    ," "The Great 
                                        Kentucky
                                     Revival," "Flight of Emigrants Across the
                                    Mountains," "Indian Wars and Cabin Life in the Interior,"
                                    "Early Fur Traders," "The Old Gentry in the
                                    South," "Social Changes of the Revolution"…
                                        .47
                        
                     
                  
                Many of these themes he would never live to trace. Others, however, soon appeared in a
                    series of thirteen articles published in The Century Magazine from 1882 to 1890 as
                    preliminary studies for his History of Life in the 
                            United States
                        . Each of the Century articles, which comprised "A
                    History of Life in the Thirteen Colonies,"48 was independent of the
                    others. Together they constituted an authoritative and lively social history of America from the
                    early years of exploration through approximately one hundred years of its colonial development.
            At the outset Eggleston emphasized that he had acquired his data chiefly from books, tracts, letters,
                    documents, and records of writers contemporaneous with the events narrated.49
                    
                  
                     46 "Eggleston: An Interview," 433, 432.
                  
                     47 Edward Eggleston to Mrs. Elizabeth E. Seelye, June 14, 1880, quoted
                            in Hirschfeld, "Edward Eggleston," 194.
                  
                     48 The complete series as it appeared in The Century
                                Magazine was as follows: "The Beginning of a Nation," XXV
                            (November, 1882), 61-83; "The Planting of New 
                                England
                            ," XXV (January, 1883), 350-66; "Migrations of American
                            Colonists," XXV (March, 1883), 724-44; "The Aborigines and the
                            Colonists," XXVI (May, 1883), 96-114; "Indian War in the
                            Colonies," XXVI (September, 1883), 697-718; "Husbandry in Colonial
                            Times," XXVII (January, 1884), 431-49; "Commerce in the
                            Colonies," XXVIII (June, 1884), 234-56; "Social Conditions in the
                            Colonies," XXVIII (October, 1884), 848-71; "The Colonists at
                            Home," XXIX (April, 1885), 873-92; "Social Life in the Colonies,"
                            XXX (July, 1885), 387-407; "Church and Meeting-House before the
                            Revolution," XXXIII (April, 1887), 901-12; "The Church of 
                                England
                             in the Colonies," XXXVI (May, 1888), 107-22; "Nathaniel
                            Bacon, the Patriot of 1676," XL (July, 1890), 418-35.
                  
                     49 Eggleston, "The Beginning of a Nation," 61n. He
                            was especially proud of discovering in the British Museum original documents about
                            Bacon's Rebellion never used by a student before. He called November 23, 1618,
                            "the great forgotten anniversary of American history" when the 
                                Virginia
                             Company gave its colony the " ‘Great Charter,’
                            by which representative government was set up in America for the first time."
                            Eggleston, "Nathaniel Bacon, the Patriot of 1676," 418.
               
                     He expressed regret that magazine requirements prevented his
                    giving acknowledgement of sources—a regret reminiscent of his reluctance to forego
                    footnotes in the first edition of The Hoosier School-Master. His meticulous
                    research was abundantly evident, however; and his commentary was supplemented with illustrations of
                    such diverse subjects as maps of the period, colonial furniture, weapons, Indian villages, battle
                    scenes, corn grinding, fish processing, fireplaces, flax wheels, old coins, portraits, spectacles
                    worn by Patrick Henry, and wigs drawn from pictures in Memorial Hall at 
                        Harvard
                    .50 Eggleston identified the sources of his illustrations and
                    directed the reader to their current custodians. Many of the 
                        Virginia
                     illustrations had been drawn by John White of the Raleigh colony and were first
                    published by Eggleston with special permission of the British Museum.51 In
                    fiction Eggleston's desire to document his narratives authentically had been only partially
                    fulfilled; in history it was achieved by the reproduction of scenes and drawings contemporaneous
                    with the events described.
            In the first few articles Eggleston described the exploration and early settlement of 
                        Virginia
                    , New 
                        England
                    , and certain middle colonies. Indians were captured by early explorers and displayed in 
                        England
                     as curiosities. Eggleston believed that such an exhibition suggested Caliban to
                        Shakespeare.52 He reviewed many foolish notions such as the 
                  
                     50 A single article contained illustrations of "The One-Hoss
                            Shay" from an old etching, the 
                                Brooklyn
                             Ferry-House from a 1746 view, an eighteenth-century American sleigh, a
                            stagecoach of 1795, a cut paper valentine of 1764, snuffboxes, a tankard presented to the
                            first white Person born in New Netherlands. silverware of the colonial Deriod. A spinet, and
                            the interior of a theater from a 1791 print. See Eggleston, "Social Life in the
                            Colonies," 387-407.
                  
                     51 The editors stated that great pains had been taken "to
                            insure the authenticity and veracity of these cuts, adding that "it is, indeed,
                            intended to make them as valuable for historic purposes as the text itself."
                            "Dr. Edward Eggleston's Historical Papers," The
                                Century Magazine, XXX (July, 1885), 487-88.
                  
                     52 Eggleston, "The Beginning of a Nation," 63-64.
                            Eggleston's frontier experiences made him avoid the idealization of Indians often
                            indulged in by his contemporaries. He questioned a part of the Pocahontas legend and
                            presented Indians generally as mistreated but savage creatures. Ibid., 76.
                            He had seen an Indian massacre and remembered living "on the very ground where my
                            vndfather-brave old Indian-fighter!-had defended his family… . See
                            Eggleston's Preface to The Circuit Rider, v, and "Dr.
                            Eggleston's Historical Papers," 487.
               
                     persistent belief that America was an island; and he described
                    the discouraging false starts made in colonization. He tried to be historically objective, but
                    experience had taught him to respect the pioneer. Consequently he showed a higher regard for dashing
                    adventurers than for leaders who erred on the side of caution or complacency. He described Raleigh
                    in Victorian terms as "a favorite of the queen, doubtless, in a sense not at all honorable
                    to that passionate daughter of Henry VIII." Nevertheless, he viewed him with sympathy as he
                    imagined that "in confinement for years in a gloomy cell of the Tower," he may
                    temporarily have suspended writing his History of the World when he heard of the
                    new attempt to colonize 
                        Virginia
                     "to which he had given his best endeavors in vain for so many
                        years."53 John Smith, too, was projected as the romantic figure he
                    was, having, by the age of twenty-eight, been shipwrecked, robbed, stranded in 
                        France
                    , thrown into the sea, imprisoned by the Turks, and put into slavery. Sailing to 
                        Virginia
                    , he survived a movement aboard ship to hang him for "conspiring to make
                    himself a king." Smith governed the colony, according to Eggleston, "like a stout
                    champion in the days of the Hebrew anarchy: a great fear of him fell on all the heathen round
                    about." As evidence of Smith's able leadership, Eggleston pointed out that within
                    eight months after he departed the 490 colonists were reduced to sixty by Indian warfare, desertion,
                    and famine.54
            
            Eggleston treated American colonization as a great epic. It had its heroes, whose legends he had
                    verified; its hardships, which drove some colonists to avoid starvation by eating their own dead;
                    and its destiny, which was assured when prospective wives were sent to the colonists in 1619. There
                    was said to be "a great terror" in 
                        England
                     as "many young girls concealed themselves" to avoid being taken by
                    force; but Eggleston's developing historical perspective evoked his observation that
                    "this cruel violence, like the rape of the Sabine women …, provided wives for
                    the beginners of a great empire."55
            
            
               
                  53 Eggleston, "The Beginning of a Nation," 69, 70.
               
                  54
                        Ibid., 74-78. By 1896, however, Eggleston was better aware of the
                        untrustworthy nature of Smith's accounts about himself. See Edward Eggleston, The Beginners of a Nation: A History of the Source and Rise of the Earliest English
                            Settlements in America with Special Reference to the Life and Character of the People (
                            New York
                        , 1896), 61-64.
               
                  55 Eggleston, "The Beginning of a Nation," 82-83.
                        Eggleston qualified the element of coercion in The Beginners of a Nation,
                    72.
            
            
            Eggleston's experience as novelist had developed in him a dramatic fictional style, but the
                    charm of his historical writing exceeded that of some of his novels. Frequently his opening sentence
                    stated the theme of the article and then almost compelled the reader to continue reading. The
                    article on "Migrations of American Colonists" began, "There is no story
                    in American history more picturesque than the coming of the first Dutch vessel into American waters
                    in 1609, about the time that John Smith left Jamestown." It then proceeded to contrast the
                    romantic seafaring adventures of Henry Hudson with the more commonplace steamship travel of
                    Eggleston's day.56 When the author compared the colonists'
                    domestic life with that of their English brethren, he concluded that "life in the colonies
                    was simply the life of Europe … made small by reflection in a provincial
                        mirror."57
            
            Eggleston's attitude toward the superstitions and ignorance of colonists and aborigines was
                    one of simultaneous amazement and sympathy. In backwoods Indiana and 
                        Minnesota
                     and in 
                        Virginia
                     he had observed the frequent mixture of good motivations and limited knowledge. Now he
                    recorded such earlier misconceptions as the belief held by some colonists that Indians had been born
                    white but turned red because they were nearly naked. The Indians' wild dances led Puritans
                    naturally to the belief that they practiced witchcraft. Eggleston showed that attempts of Catholics
                    and Puritans to educate and Christianize the Indians, forcefully or by persuasion, were
                    unsuccessful, not because of lack of dedication but because a civilization cannot suddenly be
                    transformed. He sought to correct the erroneous notion that the Indians warred because they were not
                    paid for their land; instead, he pointed out, they simply did not understand the intricacies of the
                    English law of land tenure and considered payments only temporary peace offerings.58
            
            Eggleston began his account of the colonists' social life with a recognition that they were
                    still Englishmen:
            
                    The transplanted Englishman of the seventeenth century, for the most part, clung with tenacity to
                        his heritage of ancient customs and prejudices. As the original current of a great river holds
                        the peculiar 
                     
                        56 Eggleston, "Migrations of American
                                Colonists," 724.
                     
                        57 Eggleston, "The Colonists at Home," 892.
                     
                        58 Eggleston, "The Aborigines and the
                                Colonists," 96. Eggleston, "Indian War in the Colonies,"
                            705.
                  
                         tint derived from its banks, after … the stream
                        has pushed far out to sea, so English life in the New World was slow to lose its characteristics
                        in novel conditions; only by degrees did the powerful reaction of new circumstances bring about
                        differences between the English planted in America and those who remained in the old nursery.59
               
                
            The colonists brought with them the Englishman's respect for clothes suitable to rank and
                    punished persons who defied convention by wearing clothes and wigs appropriate only for a station
                    higher than they occupied. There was a great fondness of tobacco, and gaming was almost a universal
                        vice.60
            
            Eggleston noted that involuntary servitude in America began with indentured white servants. In 1670 
                        Virginia
                     had six thousand English indentured servants and only two thousand Negro slaves. Some
                    white servants bound themselves voluntarily; but many were kidnapped, lured onto a ship while drunk,
                    or transported to America as an alternative to criminal prosecution. The author had lived with
                    slavery in 
                        Virginia
                     and preached against it in 
                        Minnesota
                    . He now described without reservation the cruelties of the colonial system of servitude
                    but pointed out that the harshness of the times also extended to the treatment of free men.61
            
            Despite changes which had taken place, Eggleston was on familiar ground as he dealt with 
                        Puritan
                     religious practices. Here he found an earlier version of what he had experienced in the
                    Methodism of his youth. The meeting-houses were austere and cold, prayers and sermons were long, and
                    singing was droning without hymnals to avoid popism.62 Eggleston, who had dealt
                    with funerals and weddings as minister and novelist, described with fascination 
                  
                     59 Eggleston, "Social Conditions in the Colonies,"
                            848.
                  
                     60 Eggleston, "The Colonists at Home," 887-92;
                            Eggleston, "Social Life in the Colonies," 402.
                  
                     61 Eggleston, "Social Conditions in the Colonies,"
                            853-70. In his sermon on "Christian Patriotism" on August 17, 1862,
                            Eggleston had expressed disapproval of 
                                Brown
                            's raids and denied the right to disobey a law merely because it was
                            unjust, but he supported the Union cause on the ground that rebellion was unjustified and
                            slavery was worse than war. This sermon is in the Cornell collection. Microfilm copy, Lilly
                            Library, Indiana University. See William P. Randel, Edward Eggleston: Author of
                                The Hoosier School-Master (
                                New York
                            , 1946), 74.
                  
                     62 Eggleston, "Church and Meeting-House before the
                            Revolution," 901, 909-11. In The Circuit Rider Eggleston strongly
                            chided his "genteel, and cultivated Methodist reader" who would have been
                            shocked at the rudeness of frontier Methodism, but he admitted that "Methodism was
                            to the West all that Puritanism was to New 
                                England
                            . Both of them are sublime when considered historically; neither of them were
                            very agreeable to live with, maybe." Eggleston, The Circuit
                            Rider, 158-59.
               
                     the great amount of shooting and drinking which characterized
                    such events in 
                        Virginia
                     and other colonies. Funerals could be expensive because of the practice of giving
                    gloves, mourning rings, and silk scarves to ministers and "under-bearers" and
                    sometimes to guests. At one 
                        Massachusetts
                     funeral three thousand gloves were given. In New 
                        England
                     the Puritans at first allowed no religious services at funerals "lest they
                    should ‘confirme the popish error … that prayer is to bee used …
                    over the dead.’ "63
            
            Eggleston's religious orientation was never primarily doctrinal. By the 1880's he
                    viewed various Protestant and other sects with considerable detachment. After describing the
                    character of certain debauched Anglican clergymen in America, he wrote, "But this is only
                    the dark side of the picture. There were always in the Chesapeake colonies clergymen of another
                    stamp, whose character shown the brighter by their proximity to sluggards and drunkards."
                    Such a one, he noted, was Anthony Garvin, who, like certain circuit riders of a later day,
                    "exchanged an easy parish for a destitute one on the frontier, where he preached in widely
                    separated places."64
            
            A distrust of reliance upon laws to effect social changes for which society was not yet prepared was
                    shown by numerous comments Eggleston made on colonial society. His disapproval of bundling,
                    "the very name of which one hesitates to write to-day," was so complete as to
                    suggest his ignorance of its practical but not its immoral use. Nevertheless, he found its
                    prevalence in staid New 
                        England
                     "but one of many instances of the failure of law and restraining precept to
                    work a refinement of manners." Dancing, he observed, was so popular that it could not be
                    repressed by early New 
                        England
                     magistrates. Eventually dances were held for launching a ship, assembling court, and
                    ordaining a minister. The colonists also enjoyed shows of all types and responded enthusiastically
                    when Lewis Hallam brought his English actors to 
                        Virginia
                     in 1752. When the Revolutionary fever and objections of the Continental Congress forced
                    them to flee, Eggleston said, they "sailed for the West Indies, to return 
                  
                     63 Eggleston, "Social Life in the Colonies," 394.
                            See also Eggleston's description of a funeral in The Mystery of
                                Metropolisville, 208-209.
                  
                     64 Eggleston, "The Church of 
                                England
                             in the Colonies," 109.
               
                     northward, like migratory birds of song, when storms should have
                    blown over."65
            
            Eggleston's "History of Life in the Thirteen Colonies" was a deliberate
                    attempt to describe colonial society in a manner both graceful and scientific. The editors were
                    correct in stating that "no such exhaustive study of the social, domestic, industrial,
                    religious, and intellectual life of the colonists … has ever before been made";
                    but they were mistaken in predicting that it would "be long before such a comprehensive
                    investigation will be undertaken again."66 Indeed this was the
                    forerunner not only of Eggleston's projected History of Life in the 
                            United States
                        
                but of a new school of American historiography.
            In 1896 Eggleston published the first volume of his long-awaited historical treatise under the full
                    title, The Beginners of a Nation: A History of the Source and Rise of the Earliest
                        English Settlements in America with Special Reference to the Life and Character of the
                    People. It did "not pretend to be the usual account of all the events attending
                    colonization," he said in his Preface, but "rather a history in which the
                    succession of cause and effect is the main topic… ." He sought "to
                    trace from their source the various … movements that resulted in the early English
                    settlements in America, and in the evolution of a great nation… ." His aim was
                    to "reflect the character of the age … and the traits of the colonists"
                    and emphasize "the social, political, intellectual, and religious forces that promoted
                    emigration." At the same time, borrowing a phrase from Augustin Thierry, he sought to make
                    this " ‘a work of art as well as of historical science.’
                        "67
            
            
               
                  65 Eggleston, "Social Life in the Colonies," 390,
                        401-402, 407. In his attempt to present both sides of the controversy over drama, Eggleston
                        admitted that the irregular lives of the actors made them susceptible to Puritanical attacks. In 
                            Newport
                         the actors attempted to quiet the religious opposition by advertizing Othello as a series of moral dialogues in five parts, noting the moral instruction of
                        the play. Ibid., 487.
               
                  66 "Dr. Eggleston's Historical Papers," 487.
               
                  67 Eggleston, The Beginners of a Nation, vii, ix. Four
                        years earlier, in an essay praising Parkman, Eggleston had criticized the "new school
                        of historians, men of … accurate scholarship, who are destitute of skill in literary
                        structure, and who hold style in contempt." Edward Eggleston, "Note on the
                        Completion of Mr. Parkman's Work," The Century Magazine, XLV
                        (November, 1892), 46. In an interview he noted the abuse Macaulay suffered "for saying
                        that he would not be content if his history was less interesting than a novel."
                        "Eggleston: An Interview," 433.
            
            
            
               EDWARD EGGLESTON, 1896 Reproduced from George Cary
                        Eggleston, The First of the Hoosiers (
                            Philadelphia
                        . 1903).
            
            
            Eggleston explicitly rejected the historical tradition of throwing "a mantle over the
                    nakedness of ancestors." The novelist who had asserted his duty to tell the whole truth
                    about frontier Methodism now assumed that same obligation as historian of the Puritans and other
                    settlers. "Here are no forefathers or foremothers," he announced, "but
                    simply English men and women of the seventeenth century, with the faults and fanaticisms as well as
                    the virtues of their age."68
            
            Eggleston declared that The Beginners of a Nation was not a reissue of any of his
                    previous works, pointing out that a series of lectures he had given on culture history at 
                        Columbia
                     College and elsewhere was never printed and his Century articles
                    merely served as "preliminary studies." Actually, in several instances his
                    expression as well as his subject matter here and in The Transit of Civilization
                    followed closely what he had previously written in the Century series. On the
                    other hand, departures from previous positions showed that further study required the historian to
                    alter some of his earlier judgments. He publicly blamed himself for putting too much credence in
                    Captain John Smith's trustworthiness "before I had had an opportunity to examine
                    and compare all his writings." Eggleston's basic honesty would allow no
                    intentional compromise with historical accuracy.69
            
            
               The Beginners of a Nation was a product of some sixteen years of research on the
                    colonization of 
                  Virginia, Massachusetts
               , and certain middle colonies. It was carefully
                    documented with marginal notes and "Elucidations" following each chapter; yet it
                    achieved the author's aim of being literary as well as instructive. His use of similes and
                    metaphors was particularly striking. For example, Winthrop "went to America confident of a
                    call divine like that of Moses" and Roger Williams was "a poet in morals, enamored
                    of perfection, and keeping his conscience purer than Galahad's."70
            
            Eggleston was overenthusiastic in his portrayal of such figures as Sir Edwin Sandys and John
                    Robinson, but he 
                  
                     68 Eggleston, The Beginners of a Nation, viii, vii.
                            Eggleston's rebellion against hypocrisy was never stronger than in his last novel,
                            where he asked "where is the aristocracy which does not regard wealth won by
                            ancient thievery as better than money modernly earned in a commonplace way?"
                            Eggleston, The Faith Doctor, 55.
                  
                     69 Eggleston, The Beginners of a Nation, x-xi, 62.
                            After acknowledging his indebtedness to those who had been helpful, he was compelled to add,
                            "The 
                                New York
                             Mercantile Library, on the other hand, I have not found hospitable to research.
                                Ibid., x.
                  
                     70
                            Ibid., 205, 283.
               
                     tried to be fair even toward those for whom he had less
                    admiration. Admitting that it was hard to view Archbishop Laud sympathetically, he nevertheless
                    acknowledged that with all his vindictiveness "he was the farthest possible from a coward,
                    and he accepted death on the scaffold with the serene composure of a martyr."71 Throughout the book Eggleston emphasized the delusions and harshness of the age but
                    avoided the temptation to judge its chief actors by the standard of his own more enlightened
                        generation.72 His belief was stated in an interview in 1897, when he said,
                    "A man has a right to be judged by the standards of his period. But one cannot judge an age
                    by its own standards. One can judge an age only by modern standards, otherwise it is no judgment at
                        all."73
            
            The author's own growth is made dramatic when one recognizes how impossible it would have
                    been for him to have written about Puritanism with any degree of detachment in his youth. In his
                    treatment of the Puritans Eggleston, who had moved from á Kempis to Darwin, disclosed his
                    evolutionary concept of history. The fact that many of the early 
                        Virginia
                     settlers perished he considered "a distinct gain to 
                        Virginia
                    . Unfitted for their environment, they were doomed to extinction by that pitiless law
                    which works ever to abolish from the earth the improvident, the idle, and the vicious."
                    Even the moral excesses of Puritanism were credited with lifting society to a permanently higher
                    plane. And, writing only three years after Turner had read his famous paper on "The
                    Influence of the Frontier in American History," Eggleston found that "the severe
                    economic conditions imposed by the soil and climate were even more potent than Puritanism in
                    producing the traits that go to make up the New 
                        England
                     of history."74
            
            
               
                  71
                        Ibid., 196.
               
                  72 See especially Eggleston's comments on John Cotton. Ibid., 300-301.
               
                  73 "Eggleston: An Interview," 437.
               
                  74 Eggleston, The Beginners of a Nation, 59, 178. Robert
                        W. Johannsen has pointed out that Eggleston's portrayals of frontier character as a
                        product of environment brought this idea to the attention of the literary world long before
                        Frederick Jackson Turner urged its importance upon the historical world. Robert W. Johannsen,
                        "Literature and History: The Early Novels of Edward Eggleston," Indiana Magazine of History, XLVIII (March, 1952), 42. Further research should be done
                        on the extent to which Eggleston's historical philosophy coincided with
                        Turner's thesis and possibly found earlier expression in Eggleston's
                        historical writing in the 1880's.
            
            
            The reviews of The Beginners of a Nation were generally favorable, and several
                    pointed out certain characteristics of the book which sprang from the author's unique
                    background. "Of the literary merit" of the work, The Critic
                    found, "it would be hard to speak too highly." A reviewer for The
                        Forum observed that "Eggleston's training as a novelist has made him give
                    a personal and dramatic interest to chapters which the average historian would make …
                    orthodox and heavy." He praised Eggleston's "excellent contribution to
                    culture-history" but looked forward to his future volumes which would trace the
                    "progress of the Western pioneer subduing the wilderness… ." Herbert L. 
                        Osgood
                    's praise of the stylistic beauty, superior spirit, and realistic treatment of
                    men and events was impressive, coming as it did from a professional historian whose own future
                    volumes on colonial history achieved an enviable distinction in historiography.75
            
            When The Transit of Civilization appeared in 1901, it was commended by reviewers
                    for the popular magazines but was generally disappointing to historical scholars.76 Eggleston had been in poor health following a stroke in 1899, and this second volume of his
                    treatise showed evidence of haste in preparation. Also, it was unconventional in form, departing
                    from the chronological method of presentation to treat six major areas of colonial life
                    individually. Except for its greater documentation and lack of illustrations it bore more
                    resemblance to the Century articles than to The Beginners of a
                        Nation. Charles M. Andrews, who, as eminent colonial historian of the new scientific school
                    and president of the American Historical Association, would later attack the idea that historians
                    should strive to write colorfully, reviewed it for the Political Science
                    Quarterly. He deplored certain factual errors and Eggleston's tendency to generalize
                    but acknowledged that the essays were "interesting and 
                  
                     75 Untitled review of The Beginners of a Nation, The
                                Critic, XXX (January 2, 1897), 3; W. P. Trent, "Dr. Eggleston on American
                            Origins," The Forum, XXII (January, 1897), 597, 591, 599; Herbert
                            L. 
                                Osgood
                            , Untitled review of The Beginners of a Nation, The American
                                Historical Review, II (April, 1897)’ 528, 530.
                  
                     76 Randel, Edward Eggleston: Author, 226-27. See
                            James A. Rawley, "Edward Eggleston: Historian," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XL (December, 1944), 350-51. The complete title was The Transit of Civilization from 
                                    England
                                 to America in the Seventeenth Century (
                                New York
                            , 1901).
               
                     readable."77 Barrett Wendell called
                    the book "a collection of out-of-the-way and curious memoranda" and suggested that
                    the author had taken into his head more than he could handle.78 Eggleston, too,
                    believed that he had failed.
            The weaknesses in the book were largely attributable to Eggleston's declining health and his
                    lifelong fascination with all kinds of strange phenomena. But more than curiosity led him to
                    describe the primitive medical beliefs of early colonists, the transmission of Surrey English to
                    American slaves, and early religious customs. He liked to trace current phenomena to their origins.
                    Colonial medical notions may have reminded him of the superstitions of 
                        Virginia
                     slaves and Hoosier backwoods people he had known. He described the colonists'
                    use of rosin found on pine bark for a skin remedy, kidney beans for strengthening the kidneys,
                    brains of a screech owl for headaches, and bedbugs for lying-in cases.79
            
            Not until a generation had passed did historians give significant attention to The
                        Transit of Civilization. One of these was Dixon Ryan Fox, who pointed out that the problem
                    of carrying forward the arts and sciences transmitted from 
                        England
                     was a continuing one. "Few men," he declared, "could have
                    realized this more vividly than Eggleston himself, who had spent the years of his young manhood as a
                    circuit rider in southern Indiana and the farther West and been a herald and exemplar of
                    civilization in the backwoods."80 More recently Arthur Meier
                    Schlesinger, Sr., who promoted the study of American social history as much as any historian of his
                    generation, introduced a paperback edition of The Transit of Civilization. In his
                    Introduction he applauded Eggleston's discerning accounts of "
                    ‘out-of-the-way subjects,’ no longer considered freakish and
                    off-center." Although later scholars "have piled up detailed studies of many of
                    the same themes," 
                  
                     77 Charles M. Andrews, Untitled review of The Transit of
                                Civilization, Political Science Quarterly, XVII (March, 1902), 162-66. For a
                            discussion of Andrews' presidential addresses, see Herman Ausubel, Historians and Their Craft: A Study of the Presidential Addresses of the American
                                Historical Association, 1884-1945 (
                                New York
                            , 1950), 141-44, 237-41.
                  
                     78 Barrett Wendell, Untitled review of The Transit of
                                Civilization, The American Historical Review, VI (July, 1901), 805, 803.
                  
                     79 Eggleston, The Transit of Civilization, 70-72.
                  
                     80 Dixon Ryan Fox, Ideas in Motion (
                                New York
                            , 1935), 3-4. Chapter I, inspired by The Transit of
                            Civilization, appeared earlier as Dixon Ryan Fox, "Civilization in
                            Transit," The American Historical Review, XXXII (June, 1927),
                            753-68.
               
                     he said, "Eggleston's pioneering effort still
                    shines through with a special glow of its own."81
            
            Eggleston's life was set in a golden age of American historical writing. George Bancroft
                    dominated the scene for many years with the rhetoric and patriotism of his works. Richard Hildreth
                    anticipated a more realistic school in his portrayal of American founders "unbedaubed with
                    patriotic rouge," and "often rude, … superstitious, and
                        mistaken."82 Within their own more limited fields of investigation,
                    John L. Motley, William H. Prescott, and Francis Parkman delighted Eggleston and his contemporaries
                    with the beauty of their glowing and authentic narratives.
            Romanticism led to humanism, and each exalted the importance of everyday life. In 
                        England
                     John Richard Green achieved immediate distinction with the publication of his Short History of the English People in 1874. It was both scholarly and lucid in
                    its emphasis on social rather than political history. Green's example strongly influenced
                    Eggleston to perform a similar service in American history.83 John Bach
                    McMaster's History of the People of the 
                            United States
                        
                began to appear during the course of Eggleston's colonial articles in
                        The Century Magazine. McMaster proposed "to describe the dress, the
                    occupations, the amusements, the literary canons of the times; to note the changes of manners and
                    morals… ." His monumental work had less social orientation than
                    Eggleston's but was an important landmark.84
                    
                  
                     81 Arthur M. Schlesinger, Sr., "Introduction: Evolution of a
                            Historian," Edward Eggleston, The Transit of Civilization (
                                Boston
                            , 1959), xviii. I was encouraged but disconcerted to find after originally
                            preparing this paper that Professor Schlesinger had used the same title for his
                            Introduction. The title was retained, however, in gratitude to him who was once my teacher
                            in Social and Intellectual History of the 
                                United States
                             and must have influenced my thoughts in some mysterious way to follow his
                            clearer vision.
                  
                     82 Richard Hildreth, The History of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America … to the Organization of Government under the Federal
                                Constitution, 1497-1789 (rev. ed., 3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1854), I, vii.
                  
                     83 Green, like Eggleston, was born in 1837, was always frail, and
                            turned from the ministry to social history which he wrote colorfully. Eggleston's
                            tribute to Green also fit himself: He "put himself into his history… . A
                            philanthropic clergyman, lover of his race to begin with, he gradually outgrew all his
                            doctrinal predilections, until … there was only the philanthropic impulse left.
                            From this point … he judged all religious life." Eggleston,
                            "The New History," 45.
                  
                     84 John Bach McMaster, A History of the People of the 
                                    United States
                                 from the Revolution to the Civil War (8 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1883-1913), I, 1. Schlesinger found Eggleston's volumes
                            "more philosophical, less political, better digested and more gracefully
                            written" than McMaster's. Arthur M. Schlesinger, Sr., "Edward
                            Eggleston," Encyclopaedia of the Social Sciences (15 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1931), V, 440. Also he pointed out that nearly three fourths of
                            McMaster's history was devoted to politics, diplomacy, and war. Schlesinger,
                            "Introduction," xvii.
               
                     A lesser but significant luminary was Eggleston's
                    friend, Moses Coit Tyler, who sought in his masterly surveys of American colonial literature to
                    discover the spirit of the age and to trace the evolution of thought and events. Both his life and
                    beliefs paralleled Eggleston's in several respects.85
            
            Two years after Eggleston's death, Albert Bushnell Hart introduced his American
                        Nation series by specifying that it "must include the social life of the people,
                    their religion, their literature, and their schools." The following year Edward Channing
                    prefaced his History of the 
                            United States
                        
                with the statement that he would trace the growth of the nation from
                    institutional and social points of view.86 What was an innovation when Eggleston
                    began his Century articles soon became commonplace.
            Eggleston demanded more of historians, however, than social orientation: they must also be able to
                    interpret their material. 
                  
                     
                        "It is one thing to unearth new facts,"
                     
                  
                he said, 
                  
                     
                        "… it is another to see what the facts collectively amount
                                    to… ."87
                        
                     
                  
                His own philosophy of history was based upon a belief in the gradual advance of
                    civilization. He declared in 1890 that "in history, as in fiction, I am mainly interested
                    in the evolution of society."88 It was an evolution he had witnessed in
                    America. Eggleston had even seen American historiography evolve from an infancy of unverified
                    anecdotes and patriotic biography to a mature stage of reinterpretations, 
                  
                     85 Tyler, almost an exact contemporary of Eggleston's, was
                            also a minister in the 1860's before he turned his attention to literary history.
                            He and Eggleston were among the founders of the American Historical Association in 1884.
                  
                     86 Albert Bushnell Hart, "Editor's Introduction to
                            the Series," Edward Potts Cheyney, European Background of American
                                History, 1300-1600 (
                                New York
                            , 1904), xvii; Edward Channing, A History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (6 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1905-1925), I, v.
                  
                     87 Edward Eggleston to his wife and daughter, February 14, 1883,
                            quoted in Hirschfeld, "Edward Eggleston, 204.
                  
                     88 Eggleston, "Formative Influences," 286.
                            Acceptance of Eggleston's practice of tracing institutions from their origins has
                            become common place as indicated by such typical titles as Charles A. and Mary R. Beard, The Rise of American Civilization (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1927); Carl L. Becker, Beginnings of the American People (
                                Boston
                            , 1915); Merle Curti, The Growth of American Thought (
                                New York
                            , 1943); Louis M. Hacker, The Shaping of the American Thought (
                                New York
                            , 1947); Curtis P. Nettels, The Roots of American Civilization (
                                New York
                            , 1938); and Max Savelle, Seeds of Liberty: The Genesis of the
                                American Mind (
                                New York
                            , 1948).
               
                     graduate seminars, scientific methods, and cooperative surveys.
                    Throughout all this he had grown with the age.
            Eggleston received many honors. After the publication of The Beginners of a Nation,
                    he was given a reception at the Authors' Club in 
                        New York
                    . McMaster and Henry 
                        Van
                     Dyke spoke and letters of congratulations were read from Tyler, Justin Winsor, and
                    others. Eggleston was elected president of the American Historical Association for 1900. His
                    historical books were cited in scholarly bibliographies.89 According to his
                    brother, certain elementary school histories he had written emphasizing social rather than
                    constitutional beginnings "fairly revolutionized the teaching of history in
                        schools."90
            
            Nevertheless, Eggleston's "accursed versatility," which had led him into
                    many digressive endeavors, combined with his meticulousness and ill health to deny him the
                    satisfaction of publishing more than a beginning of his ambitious historical work. Consequently, the
                    contributions he did make were neglected. In his place, James Harvey Robinson assumed the role of
                    pioneer in the "New History" movement. Neither Robinson's book, The New History, published twelve years after Eggleston's 1900 address by
                    the same name, nor Robinson's own 1929 presidential address on "The Newer Ways of
                    Historians," acknowledged the work pioneered by Eggleston. Actually, Eggleston had
                    championed social history for years while Robinson was still pursuing traditional studies of western
                    European history.91
                    
                  
                     89 Hirschfeld, "Edward Eggleston," 192, 193n.
                            Typically, Hart referred to The Beginners of a Nation as "A very
                            careful and thoughtful book" and to Hildreth's The History of
                                the 
                                    United States
                                
                      as "Full and accurate, though dry." Albert Bushnell
                            Hart (ed.), American History told by Contemporaries (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1897-1901), I, 26, 27.
                  
                     90 G. C. Eggleston, First of the Hoosiers, 364. See, for example,
                            Edward Eggleston, A History of the 
                                    United States
                                 and Its People for the Use of Schools (
                                New York
                            , 1888) and Stories of Great Americans for Little Americans (
                                New York
                            , 1896).
                  
                     91 See James Harvey Robinson, The New History: Essays
                                Illustrating the Modem Historical Outlook (
                                New York
                            , 1912). See Ausubel, Historians and Their Craft, 300, 347-48,
                            for a discussion of Robinson's role in the movement. The failure of
                            Robinson's student, Barnes, to mention Eggleston is astonishing, particularly in
                            sections devoted to the "New History." See Harry Elmer Barnes, A History of Historical Writing (
                                Norman
                            , Okla., 1937, and 2nd. rev. ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1963); Harry Elmer Barnes, The New History and the Social Studies (
                                New York
                            , 1925). On the other hand, Michael Kraus in his A History of
                                American History (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 588-89, gives Eggleston credit for his pioneer contributions and the
                            "charm" and "strong influence" of his two historical
                            volumes.
               
                     It remained for Schlesinger, Robinson's former student
                    at 
                        Columbia
                    , who had found his lectures "most provocative," to say what Robinson
                    neglected to say: 
                        Eggleston … seemed to me the unrecognized but real father of American social
                            history… . Over a decade before James Harvey Robinson, he had coined the
                            expression "The New History" in his presidential address to the American
                            Historical Association in 1900.92
                  
                    
            
            Schlesinger, an academic historian, concluded that despite the financial and other incentives to
                    scholarship which had become available, "as yet no pregnant contributions comparable to
                    those of an Eggleston or Turner or Beard have come to view."93
            
            Unexpectedly, The Transit of Civilization, rather than The Beginners
                        of a Nation, has received the greater comment in recent years as a pioneer effort meriting
                    more attention. A study by Lester J. Cappon led to the conclusion that The Transit of
                        Civilization needed redoing "with the benefit of augmented source materials and
                    the contributions of modern scholarship during the past half century."94 There are equally or more compelling reasons, however, for reexamining Eggleston's
                    thirteen articles on colonial life published in The Century Magazine during the
                    eighties. These commenced while McMaster was still teaching civil engineering at 
                        Princeton
                     and before the first volume of his A History of the People of the 
                            United States
                        
                was published. Thus, the articles are more clearly a pioneer effort than
                    either of Eggleston's historical books. Collectively they present a fresh, detailed,
                    brilliantly-written analysis of colonial culture exceeding the combined length of the two historical
                    volumes. These "preliminary studies" deserve a better fate than to remain forever
                    buried under the dust of university library shelves. When they are revived and studied, it may even
                    be said of Eggleston, as has been suggested of Wordsworth, that in writing the prelude to his
                    uncompleted masterpiece he had written the masterpiece itself.
            Eggleston was too ill in 1900 to deliver his address before the American Historical Association in
                    person, but the words he sent to be read to the distinguished assemblage were 
                  
                     92 Arthur M. Schlesinger, Sr., In Retrospect: The History
                                of a Historian (
                                New York
                            , 1963), 34, 188.
                  
                     93
                            ibid., 201.
                  
                     94 Lester J. Cappon, "The Colonial Period
                            Reexamined," John Francis McDermott (ed.), Research Opportunities in
                                American Cultural History (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1961), 9.
               
                     vibrant. Other presidential addresses have dealt with the
                    importance of literary style, philosophy, facts, research, and selectivity in history.95 Eggleston, who could have discussed any of these themes with authority, chose to place
                    his major emphasis on the kind of history he had pioneered in America, which he designated
                    "The New History."
            In what Ausubel termed "the first really large-scale presidential attack on the political
                    and military content of history,"96 Eggleston chastized his fellow
                    historians for following too blindly Herodotus, who reported the manners of the times but whose
                    major emphasis was on wars and politics. In place of the ancient historians he recommended Raleigh,
                    who was "in a sense both Herodotus and Thucydides and something more," and
                    Macaulay, whose "famous third chapter came to interrupt the course of the history"
                    in its brilliant portrayal of English manners. "Time will come," he said,
                    "when we shall date from Macaulay." Of Bancroft he wrote, "He knew nearly
                    everything a historian ought to know except culture history.97
            
            Unfortunately, Eggleston failed to acknowledge the contribution of McMaster, whose fifth volume of
                        A History of the People of the 
                            United States
                        
                appeared in 1900. On the other hand, he proclaimed his indebtedness to
                    graduate students and praised local historians who quietly recorded annals which would be greedily
                    sought in future years. He called history "the great prophylactic against
                    pessimism" and concluded on a note of confidence: 
                        History will be better written in the ages to come. The soldier will not take the place he
                            has taken. I do not say that the drum and trumpet history will have gone out; but when the
                            American Historical Association shall assemble in the closing week a hundred years hence,
                            there will be, do not doubt it, gifted writers of the history of the people… . We
                            shall have the history of culture, the real history of men and women.98
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  95 See Ausubel, Historians and Their Craft, 188, 300.
               
                  96
                        ibid., 309.
               
                  97 Eggleston, "The New History," 38, 44, 45, 46.
               
                  98
                        Ibid., 47. It is hard to accept the charges with which Hirschfeld concludes
                        his otherwise excellent analysis of Eggleston as a social historian. The presidential address
                        did show signs of carelessness, but Hirschfeld's contention that Eggleston had become a
                        pessimist and that his speech contained no mention of his earlier evolutionary doctrine is
                        unsound in the light of such passages as: "What a brute is man! … But the
                        brute age … must pass. … It is the object of history to cultivate this out
                        of man… ." ibid., 41. See Hirschfeld, "Edward
                        Eggleston, 207-10.
            
            
            Death, Edward Eggleston's never-distant companion, finally halted the pen of the historian
                    on September 3, 1902. From that moment Eggleston's role in historiography was history. In
                    an article appearing the following December Meredith Nicholson wrote a generous tribute: 
                        History was not to him a dusty lumber room, but a sunny street where people come and go.
                            … He pursued his task with scientific ardor and accuracy, but without fussiness
                            or dullness. His occupations as novelist and editor had been a preparation for this later
                            work, for it was the story quality that he sought in history, and he wrote with an editorial
                            eye to what is salient and interesting. It is doubtful whether equal care has ever been
                            given to the preparation of any other historical work in this country.99
                  
                    
                
            Eggleston's final destiny could not have been foretold at birth, but the pattern of his
                    evolution is now clear. It bears a remarkable resemblance to the story of America he planned to
                    tell. Both had experienced a youth of Puritanical introspection, an adolescence of frontier
                    conditioning and independence, a middle age of postwar realism, and a maturity of scientific
                    awareness in a culture so different from its origins as to defy identification. Yet the progressive
                    stages of Eggleston's evolution were as logical in retrospect as the manifest destiny of
                    America.
            The lessons learned in 
                        Vevay
                     and 
                        Madison
                    , in Amelia and on the 
                        Minnesota
                     frontier, in 
                        Brooklyn
                     and 
                        London
                     had given Eggleston a rare opportunity to observe and interpret the varied colors of
                    life. He responded to the wealth discovered through his historical research with the innocent
                    animation of a child and recorded it with a freshness rare in historiography. At the same time, his
                    lack of formal advanced education kept him from comprehending the magnitude of the historical goal
                    he set for himself and the impossibility of his bringing it to completion.
            Eggleston's role in cultural history was, as it had been in the areas of religion and
                    fiction, that of a pioneer: one who prepares the way for others to follow. It was a role that
                    Eggleston played exceptionally well. The direction he led was the direction taken, but the pioneer
                    himself was almost forgotten. That, too, is a part of evolution.
            
               
                  99 Nicholson, "Edward Eggleston," 808.
            
         
         
         
            Glenn A. Black
            James H. Kellar*
            
            Glenn A. Black was the first professional archaeologist continuously involved in the study of
                    Indiana's prehistoric past. For most of his thirty-five years as archaeological field
                    director for the Indiana Historical Society, he was the only individual so engaged. Black's
                    death in September, 1964, at the age of sixty-four, while he was yet actively engaged in furthering
                    field research and writing, unexpectedly ended this long career. Because of his influential role in
                    the development of Indiana archaeology, as well as his position in the profession, it is appropriate
                    to document some of Black's more important contributions. This is of consequence, not only
                    as the contributions reflect upon the individual but also in recognition of the influence they
                    inevitably must have on area prehistory.
            Black's career spanned the years during which research in North American prehistory gained a
                    degree of maturity and authority; he had a positive role in these developments. In 1934 he was among
                    those responsible for the founding of the Society for American Archaeology, the professional
                    organization for New World prehistorians; and he subsequently held every major elective office,
                    including the presidency in 1941-1942. In recognition of his service to the interests of archaeology
                    and Hoosier history, 
                        Wabash
                     College in 1951 conferred the Sc.D. degree.
            One recurring theme dominated much of Black's archaeological work. Put in its most
                    fundamental form, it was a deep respect for past human accomplishment; and material objects, the
                    only surviving evidence available for documenting most of the past, were studied for this reason.
                    The next step, quite logically, was an emphasis on data recovery or field methodology, and it was in
                    this extremely important area of archaeology that major innovations were made. Two examples
                    demonstrate this concern.
            It is axiomatic that a site excavated is also a site destroyed; data overlooked or misinterpreted
                    cannot, by the very nature of the quest for information, be recovered a 
                  
                     * James H. Kellar is director of the Glenn A. Black
                            Laboratory of Archaeology, Indiana University.
               
                    
                    
                  GLENN A. BLACK Courtesy Indiana Historical Society
               
                     second time. In 1934-1935, fully cognizant of this limitation,
                    Black directed the investigation of the Nowlin Mound, a large Adena burial tumulus, located in 
                        Dearborn County
                    , Indiana. At a time when tunnels were being dug in the sides of mounds or pits were
                    intruded from the top, he excavated with meticulous care. As a result the complex nature of the
                    structure was clearly delineated, the relative chronology of the tombs was established, and the
                    published report provided an unsually well-documented description of the whole. This was one of the
                    first, if not the first, similarly controlled project of its kind in the history of 
                        Ohio
                     Valley archaeology, and it served as the model for all subsequent excavations in like
                    contexts.
            More recent developments in field methodology have been concerned with the application of advanced
                    scientific technology to the problem of data recovery. One such development was the adaptation of
                    the proton magnetometer, a geo-physical prospecting tool, to the identification of subsurface
                    evidence for human activity. Developed in 
                        England
                     and used initially in Old World sites, it was suggested that it might have utility in
                    New World contexts. Black obtained the equipment, and supported by two research grants from the
                    National Science Foundation, initiated an intensive evaluation of its potential at Angel Mounds
                    State Memorial. This was the first such comprehensive test in the Americas.
            A vital innovation at the very beginning of Black's tenure was the establishment of the
                    Indiana Archaeological Survey. Its purpose was ultimately to record all archaeological sites within
                    the state. The aboriginal villages, cemeteries, mounds, and the like are the
                    archaeologist's documents; and a knowledge of their locations and, where possible,
                    something of their material contents is an essential prelude to most undertakings. In addition to
                    information compiled from early published sources, newspapers, and reports from interested
                    individuals, more than thirty Indiana counties were systematically surveyed for evidence of past
                    occupation. There is now in the survey file at least some relevant notation for each of the
                    ninety-two counties in the state, and more than 4,000 individual sites are recorded. Black visited
                    most of these sites, and surface collections of artifacts are available from many. Though the total
                    represents only a fraction of all the possible sites in Indiana, it is an impressive catalog.
            Black was also associated with the Department of Anthropology at Indiana University for sixteen
                    years. Though this was only a part-time position, students who did their  doctoral research under his direction are now responsible for
                    archaeological programs in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , West 
                        Virginia
                    , Indiana, and the Plains states. Additionally, several dozen more, many of whom are now
                    scattered throughout the world, received a solid introduction to archaeological field methods
                    through the medium of a summer field course directed by Black and co-sponsored by the Indiana
                    Historical Society and Indiana University. Hundreds of other students were exposed to the 10,000
                    plus years of aboriginal occupation in North America through his teaching. It should be noted that
                    these were the only such offerings in New World prehistory in any college or university in Indiana.
            All of the foregoing were of immediate relevance only to specialized groups—archaeologists
                    and students. However, Black's position with the Indiana Historical Society imposed
                    additional requirements. One of these was to translate the archaeologist's professional
                    jargon into terms comprehensible to the layman. There is no way of knowing how many speaking
                    engagements were accepted, but it is certain that he spoke at one time or another to groups in every
                    segment of the state.
            In 1938 the Indiana Historical Society purchased the Angel site, a large and late Middle
                    Mississippian village, located near 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, in order to preserve it from urban encroachment. For twenty-seven years in a
                    fashion unparalleled in American archaeology, Black directed excavations at the site, first as a WPA
                    project and, later, as a student endeavor. The material results were impressive, and a definitive
                    two-volume final report will be published by the society during 1967. More important, perhaps, the
                    site was given to Indiana to develop for the edification of the citizenry. It is now incorporated as
                    a state memorial by the Department of Natural Resources, and plans are underway for an interpretive
                    center and reconstructions of the village as it was five centuries ago.
            In late 1965 Lilly Endowment, Incorporated, made a gift of $300,000 to Indiana University.
                    Its purpose is to construct a building to house, exhibit, and perpetuate resources in Indiana
                    archaeology and to make them available for a continuing program in area prehistory. This gift was a
                    reflection of the long-time personal interest in and support of Indiana archaeology by Mr. Eli
                    Lilly. The structure will be named the G. A. Black Laboratory of Archaeology.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Wendell Willkie: Fighter for Freedom. By Ellsworth Barnard. (Marquette: Northern 
                        Michigan
                     University Press, 1966. Pp. xi, 611. Illustrations, notes, index. $7.60.)
            Was Wendell Willkie "the man who, during the last four years of his life, in a decisive
                    period of American history, had a greater influence on the mind of the American people and the
                    policy of the American government than any other person except 
                        Franklin
                     Roosevelt" (p. 3) ? Ellsworth Barnard, professor of English at Northern 
                        Michigan
                     University, develops this thesis in the first carefully documented, full-length
                    biography of the colorful, controversial utilities executive who won the 1940 Republican
                    presidential nomination but lost the election to Franklin D. Roosevelt.
            The focus of this study is on the post-1940 years when Willkie served as an apostle of
                    internationalism to the nationalist, isolationist, Old Guard wing of the Republican party. Perhaps
                    still fueled by the Wilsonian idealism of his youth, the middle-aged Willkie worked indefatigably to
                    convert the traditional Republican leadership groups to the view that the 
                        United States
                     must cooperate actively in peace, as well as in war, with other nations. Willkie,
                    probably shortening his own life as a consequence, dedicated himself to educating the Republican
                    party to the realities of living in one world with hundreds of millions of people who did not come
                    from small town or rural American backgrounds. That Willkie spoke for only a minority of regular
                    Republicans was driven home by his pulverizing defeat in the 1944 
                        Wisconsin
                     primary. Like Woodrow Wilson a generation earlier, Willkie may have spoken with greater
                    effect to generations unborn than to the people of his own time.
            To the degree that Willkie warded off identification of the Republican party with traditional prewar
                    isolationism, his wartime crusades were hopeful auguries for the future, although his failures were
                    more numerous than his successes. More debatable is Barnard's thesis that Willkie fought
                    more unreservedly for "civil rights, social justice, a reasonably regulated economy, [and]
                    acceptance of international obligations" (p. 451) than did Roosevelt. Willkie may have been
                    more publicly outspoken than the President, but this does not prove that Roosevelt was any less
                    unreservedly a fighter for these causes than Willkie.
            The student of American history who has read the earlier Willkie biographies by Joseph Barnes, Mary
                    Earhart Dillon, and Donald Bruce Johnson will not profit materially from a meticulous reading of
                    Barnard. But the reader who wants a single life of Willkie should select the latter volume. The
                    works by Barnes and Dillon are undocumented, although the former has a reputation for being
                    generally reliable. The study by Johnson is more narrowly conceived, centering almost entirely on
                    Willkie's relationship to the Republican party, and is written from newspapers,
                    periodicals, and secondary works. Barnard used the  collection of
                    papers under the control of Willkie's wife and son which are not generally available to
                    scholars; and he also interviewed or corresponded with numbers of Willkie's relatives,
                    friends, and associates. These sources appear to have been particularly helpful in working out the
                    details of Willkie's boyhood and adolescence on which subjects Barnes, Dillon, and Johnson
                    are sketchy and Alden Hatch's "boy's life" notoriously romantic
                    and unreliable. Barnard apparently did not examine the records of the Associated Willkie Clubs of
                    America housed at Indiana University.
            There are a few minor slips. In a second edition, the publisher will want to correct typographical
                    errors on page 196 (line 26) and page 231 (line 32). Barnard incorrectly refers to C. Wayland Brooks
                    (p. 232) as an incumbent seeking re-election to the Senate in 1940 when in fact he was striving to
                    unseat Democratic Senator James Slattery.
            This book is a labor of love (fourteen years in the writing) and detailed scholarship (ninety-two
                    pages of notes). Both text and notes deserve to be read.
            
                    College of San Mateo
                
            Hugh Ross
         
         
            
               Dreiser. By W. A. Swanberg. (
                        New York
                    : Charles Scribner's Sons, 1965. Pp. xvii, 614. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $10.00.)
            To many Hoosiers the name Theodore Dreiser has usually represented either the man who wrote the words
                    to his brother Paul's song, "On the Banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    "; an expatriate Hoosier of whom the state took little note; or an immoral,
                    cantankerous, but gifted author to be shunned by the righteous. (After all, for years the Indiana
                    State Library refused to buy his books.) Dreiser is all these things and many more in
                    Swanberg's excellent book, which, as the dust jacket states, is "the first
                    comprehensive biography of a man of genius, a major figure in American literature, who was also an
                    outrageous, magnetic and foolish human being." This is the "story of a tormented
                    life." It is not an attempt to criticize Dreiser's works, a task which has long
                    attracted many critics. Swanberg's many original sources include Dreiser's books
                    and articles, huge quantities of letters written by and to him, and interviews with those who knew
                    him.
            Here we see Dreiser, born into a large, poverty-stricken family on the unclean side of the tracks in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , of an ignorant, warmhearted, pagan mother and a malcontented, religious fanatic of a
                    father, who was frequently out of work and in debt. Pursued by want, the family, or portions of it,
                    lived in the Indiana towns of 
                  Vincennes, Evansville
               , Sullivan, and 
                        Warsaw
                    , as well as in 
                        Chicago
                    . After a year at Indiana University, financed by a teacher, Dreiser became a
                    newspaperman in 
                  St. Louis, Toledo, Pittsburgh
               , and 
                        New York
                    . In the last-named city he launched his career as an author with Sister Carrie, which
                    was shredded by critics; then he later became the hypocritical but successful, moralizing editor of
                    Butterick publications.
            
            Dreiser was selfish and self-centered, illogical, erratic, inconsistent, deceitful, superstitious,
                    suspicious of everyone, unpredictable, and both niggardly and extravagant with money. Possessing an
                    animal magnetism, he considered "sex as the real business of life" (p. 355) and
                    could bed three different women in one day. He quarreled with his friends—even his best
                    friend, H. L. Mencken—and publishers, once throwing coffee in the face of Horace
                    Liveright. He made the mistake of marrying, for he was consistently promiscuous with housewives,
                    college girls, and others—even prostitutes. His many women friends were also important to
                    him professionally, since they acted as secretaries and helped to criticize and cut his manuscripts.
            Dreiser believed in evolution and survival of the fittest, held no hope for reform in politics or
                    society, believed that life is chaos, and tried to develop a philosophy of life deriving from
                    mechanistic science, though eventually he came to believe in a creative force, perhaps God. He made
                    himself unpopular by espousing many radical causes. He hated the Catholic Church and the Jews; loved
                    to quarrel (once he slapped Sinclair Lewis); considered entrenched wealth his enemy, although he was
                    a capitalist himself, holding stocks and property; and plagiarized from Lewis and Sherwood Anderson.
                    He admired Hitler. Alternately praising and damning Russia and communism, before his death he joined
                    the Communist party-to the despair of many disciplined Communists. In Russia his works were the most
                    published of American authors.
            Still, his books, clumsy, prolix, and often boring, written too rapidly and abounding in technical
                    inaccuracies and lack of taste, reflected great sympathy for human suffering, as in An
                        American Tragedy, which was the novel that made him really famous and prosperous. Dreiser
                    was a champion of social justice, the pioneer who made the important break in American literature
                    from the genteel tradition. Fighting the censorship and Puritanism which banned his books, such as
                        The "Genius," he was the leader in the field of realism, a
                    transition between Howells and Hemingway.
            This is beautifully written, well-documented scholarship which often reads like a novel. The only
                    defect is the mass of detail, in which the reader may lose himself; yet this is the stuff of life
                    itself. Swanberg's is the definitive biography of Dreiser.
            
                    DePauw University
                
            Arthur W. Shumaker
         
         
            
               George 
                            Washington
                         Julian, Radical Republican: A Study in Nineteenth-Century Politics and Reform.
                    By Patrick W. Riddleberger. Indiana Historical Collections, Volume XLV. ([
                        Indianapolis
                    ]: Indiana Historical Bureau, 1966. Pp. xiii, 344. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical
                    essay, index. $5.00.)
            This is a good biography of one of Indiana's most able congressmen and political leaders in
                    the periods immediately before and following the Civil War. While the author lists Julian as a
                    radical, this reviewer  is inclined to regard him as one of the
                    leading reformers of his time. He was intensely interested in such national problems as slavery,
                    public land policy, women's rights, and the labor movement. The author's handling
                    and interpretations of those problems are excellent. Herein lie the value and the strength of the
                    book.
            Julian did not hesitate to change his political affiliations. He was a Whig, Free Soiler, Republican,
                    Liberal Republican, and finally a Democrat. Julian was the only Free Soiler that Indiana ever sent
                    to Congress. While his highest office was that of congressman, his liking for controversy probably
                    prevented his appointment to the cabinet by more than one president.
            Julian was quick to oppose some of the vested interests of his time. He was ever alert to oppose the
                    efforts of the railroads to raid the public domain which, he insisted, should be set aside as an
                    agrarian utopia for the people. His acceptance at a late age of an appointment by President 
                        Cleveland
                     as Surveyor General of Public Lands in the territory of 
                        New Mexico
                     is evidence of his interest in that direction. A free trader, he strongly opposed the
                    efforts of manufacturers to persuade Congress to raise the protective tariff.
            Julian's record as a radical was typical of that of the radicals in Congress who opposed
                    Lincoln's conduct of the Civil War and Lincoln's and Johnson's
                    reconstruction policies. His feud with Oliver P. Morton over Johnson's handling of the
                    southern problem and his dislike for President Grant made him uncomfortable in the Republican party.
                    Finally, convinced that the Republican party had shot its bolt in the matter of reform when it freed
                    the slaves, he supported the Liberal Republican movement in 1872. Incidentally, the author was
                    unable to find any evidence that Julian was involved in the scandals of Grant's
                    administrations or that he was other than honest during his public career.
            Only two weaknesses were found in this study. First, Riddleberger used too much space in his
                    discussion and explanation of such items as the Compromise of 1850, the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Bill, and Lincoln's controversy with General 
                        Fremont
                     during the Civil War. Readers of the book should already know such information. Second,
                    the author depended rather too much on secondary works as sources. That nearly six and a half pages
                    of the bibliographical essay were devoted to secondary works is evidence of their use. Unfortunately
                    Julian's daughter destroyed a portion of his Journal before making it available to the
                    public. It is possible that this action created a gap or vacuum that compelled the use of secondary
                    works. The index is adequate.
            The above criticisms should not detract from the worth of such a scholarly volume which will be of
                    great value to students of both Indiana and American history.
            
                    Indiana University, Gary
                
            Powell A. Moore
         
         
         
            
               Indiana: A History. By William E. Wilson. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1966. Pp. xii, 243. Illustrations, selected bibliography,
                    index. $6.95.)
            This volume is a rather brief treatment of the story of the Hoosier State. Although the author does
                    not make clear the purpose of the book, it is assumed that the work is intended as a popular history
                    recounting Indiana's important heritage.
            Wilson describes Indiana's varied topography from the dunes and plains of the north to the
                    rugged Ohio River country. Indians inhabited the state from the time of the
                    Paleo-Indians to the removal of the historic red men in the nineteenth century. Brief sketches of
                    Little Turtle, Tecumseh, Menominee, and Maconaquah add interest to the Indian story.
            Indiana's role in the imperial rivalries of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries is
                    related, beginning with La Salle's expedition. Wilson errs, however, when he says that La
                    Salle's discovery of the Ohio River in 1669-1670 is a certainty (p.
                    43), for it is not. The account of the transfer of 
                        Vincennes
                     to the 
                        United States
                     during the American Revolution, its surrender to 
                        Hamilton
                    , and its recapture by Clark is told interestingly; however, the size given for 
                        Hamilton
                    's force is too large and that for Clark's too small (pp. 62, 64).
            The chapter on 
                        New Harmony
                    , "Utopia on the 
                        Wabash
                    ," is well done. The industrious Rappites built here a prosperous community
                    which was the envy of many who saw it. The leaders of these austere people, however, sold out to
                    British industrialist Robert Owen, who resolved to create the millenium for which George Rapp had
                    been waiting.
            "Horse-Trading and Logrolling" is an account of Hoosier politics from Jonathan
                    Jennings to Wendell Willkie. There are some interesting sketches of George W. Julian; Daniel W.
                    Voorhees, the "Tall Sycamore of the 
                        Wabash
                    "; and Benjamin Harrison, "who wore kid gloves on his mind and
                    possibly his conscience through four years in the presidential office" (p. 117). Albert J.
                    Beveridge is described as having "one of the best minds that ever became concerned with
                    politics in Indiana" (p. 120). Wilson also has kind words for Eugene V. Debs and Paul V.
                    McNutt.
            Indiana has participated in five wars since it became a state. During the Mexican War one regiment,
                    the Second Indiana, was unjustly accused of retreating in the face of the enemy. The state was not
                    prepared for the Civil War, but its people rose to the occasion and performed admirably. Hoosiers
                    also played a prominent part in the Spanish-American War, World War I, and World War II; but
                    Wilson's treatment of these wars is very brief.
            The author's approach is topical, and one is rather startled to skip from World War II to
                    the Lincoln migration from 
                        Kentucky
                     to Indiana. Wilson is not correct when he says that Tom Lincoln "never once
                    thought of water" (p. 155), because near the cabin site is a spring which has apparently
                    been there for a long time. Nor was Tom Lincoln indolent (p. 158); he was a substantial citizen and
                    landowner in both 
                        Kentucky
                     and Indiana.
            
            Once a producer of corn and hogs, Indiana is now better known as an industrial state, manufacturing
                    chiefly primary metal products, transportation equipment, electrical machinery, and blast furnace
                    and steel mill products.
            Wilson's final and best chapter is entitled "Reflections," which is an
                    interpretation of Indiana writers and their works. He takes Hoosiers of the early twentieth century
                    to task for preferring Booth Tarkington's reverence for the "genteel
                    tradition" and rejecting Theodore Dreiser's realism.
            
               Indiana: A History is well illustrated and written in a pleasing literary style.
                    The absence of notes and the presence of some errors do detract somewhat. To cite a few additional
                    inaccuracies: the Driftless Area includes three geological regions instead of one (p. 6); the
                    mound-building Indians were not Indiana's first inhabitants (p. 13); 
                        Dearborn County
                     was not along the "gore" in 1809 because it was the
                    "gore" then (p. 84). Despite these slips, those interested in the history of
                    Indiana will find this book worthwhile reading.
            
                    
                  
                            Vincennes
                         University
                
            Chelsea L. Lawlis
         
         
            
               Indiana: A Self-Appraisal. Edited by Donald F. Carmony. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1966. Pp. viii, 279. Notes, tables. Paperbound,
                    $3.95.)
            In the Preface the editor relates the purpose and general nature of this work: it is a volume
                    developed for the general reader in recognition of Indiana's sesequicentennial. Nineteen
                    authors, all of whom have had intimate acquaintance with and leadership in the Hoosier scene and who
                    represent various backgrounds, have contributed to chapters pertaining to their own special area of
                    activity. Each author was directed "to provide historical background for his topic,
                    significant information about its present status, and comments about probable future
                    developments" (p. v). Each was also asked to present "his own appraisal concerning
                    his topic and to suggest desirable changes" (p. v). This format has been consistently
                    followed.
            Nineteen different authors suggest the probability of nineteen different interpretations and
                    virtually guarantee varying viewpoints and distinct qualitative differences. One author lapses into
                    an unnecessary (for this volume) and singularly unilateral presentation of a hotly contested
                    political issue. Another, in a highly statistical chapter, fuses and confuses his state and national
                    data. Still another presents convincing evidence that Indiana has made a magnificent transition from
                    an agricultural to an industrial economy, some implications of which are challenged elsewhere as
                    Indiana's agricultural industry is characterized as "big and basic." To
                    charge, in yet another chapter, that opposition to national funds for educational use is
                    "hysteria" shows slight respect for honest conviction, and to write about human
                    relations "from the viewpoint of who gets pushed around the most by whom" (p. 279)
                    lends less dignity to the complexities of that topic than the author otherwise attempts to indicate.
                    Such illustrations, with multiple  incidence, either aroused this
                    reviewer's interest or offended his sense of objectivity—or his predilections.
            With no intent to render an injustice to any author's contribution, a few chapters do
                    warrant particular attention. The weaknesses and strengths of our state government are perceptively
                    analyzed in the second chapter. Indiana, it develops, is in good shape, though numerous pertinent
                    and constructive criticisms are made. Chapter three, with its sprightly style, is possibly the most
                    readable and entertaining of the nineteen, though observations here and elsewhere in the book about
                    Indiana's recent reapportionment bear reconsideration. Why a chapter about
                    "Hoosier Women"? Read this hard-hitting account of the distaff majority, and the
                    answer resounds with portentous virility. The burgeoning business of higher education is accorded
                    thorough and intelligible treatment, but the actual and potential contributions of such
                    institutions, excepting the two largest state universities, are afforded rather cavalier
                    consideration.
            Though varied in style and interpretation, the chapters, with gratifying exceptions, have several
                    common thematic characteristics. None indicates that civil rights pertains to anything in addition
                    to the racial issue. The equalitarian call persists in its frequency and misinterpretation. Science
                    and technology, the knowledge explosion, the population explosion, social responsibility,
                    urbanization, and federal aid are the standard concerns. The private sector generally succumbs to
                    the public sector.
            The book, however, is rewarding. Virtually no mechanical errors mar the pages. Though space allows
                    little analysis in depth, the chapters do provide informative and pleasant reading. Hoosiers, and
                    others, will no doubt be amazed at the churning activity generated within this heartland of America.
                    They should also have a better appreciation for Indiana's heritage and a keener
                    anticipation of its future after being so self-appraised.
            And one last word. No chapter about religion is included. Considering the deep involvement of
                    religion in the whole fabric of Indiana's history one wonders why. Was there insufficient
                    space, was its inclusion overlooked, or was its omission a sign of the times?
            
                    Indiana State University
                
            Donald B. Scheick
         
         
            
               The Land, The People. By Rachel Peden. (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, 1966. Pp. xv, 332. Illustrations. $5.95.)
            Rachel Peden's book, The Land, The People, gently evokes memories of a
                    rural America that has passed. At the same time it quietly reminds us that even in this urban world
                    family farms still exist and family farmers still farm, in part at least, for the sheer joy of
                    tilling their own soil and being their own men. Gently too, but perhaps less so, the author insists
                    that "everyone needs—in fact, must have—occasional reacquaintance
                    with the land" (pp. 229-300).
            In swiftly flowing passages Mrs. Peden, graduate of Indiana University, farm wife, and columnist for
                    the Inidanapolis Star and 
                        Muncie
                    
                    
                    Press, relives for the reader her childhood days on an Indiana farm, traces the
                    history of her husband's family whose ancestors had taken up farms in 
                        Owen County
                     the year Indiana became a state, and finally writes of her own life on the farm since
                    her marriage. In doing this she describes with obvious delight and considerable objectivity her
                    father, the learned orchardist; her mother; and numerous members of her own and the Peden family. Of
                    the people she describes, she gives the most attention to Walter Peden, her husband's
                    father.
            Walter Peden lived to be ninety-four years old. Mellowed in his later years, he wrote numerous
                    letters to the author and became a never-ending source of farm and family lore. He read much and
                    delved occasionally into history, and perhaps it is to him that Mrs. Peden owes the one or two
                    factual errors in her book. 
                        Missouri
                    , for example, did not come into the Union as a free state. Nor would it have been
                    possible for Levi Beem, Walter Peden's grandfather, to have remained a Republican the rest
                    of his life after voting for President 
                        Monroe
                    . In any case, the author builds the story of the Peden family in Indiana around the
                    character of Walter Peden. It is an interesting story, filled with thoughtful observations about
                    farms and farming and the way people managed in rural Indiana when farming was the nation's
                    number one industry. For the historian the record of Mrs. Peden's early life and that of
                    the Peden family will be the most interesting.
            The book is not only about farm people and farm ways but about the land as well, and the relationship
                    of the land to the people. With skillful transitions, somewhat reminiscent of Henry Thoreau, with
                    whom she is obviously familiar, the author blends the stories of her people and her own experiences
                    on the farm with perceptive insights about the goodness of the land, its productiveness, its
                    permanence, and its ability to teach valuable lessons to all who would learn from it.
            Of her basic conviction that man must periodically return to the soil, Mrs. Peden writes:
                    "To say man is of the earth and that his well-being, even his very survival, depends on an
                    occasional return to it is not enough. It is important to try to find out why this is true"
                    (p. xii). And this, indeed, is apparently what she set out to do. It was a chore of much greater
                    magnitude than weeding her garden, and perhaps, in the end, as unprofitable. But no matter. If she
                    convinces no one except those, like the reviewer, who needed no convincing, it was worth the effort.
            
                    
                  
                            Texas
                         Western College
                
            Wayne E. Fuller
         
         
            
               The Recollections of Philander Prescott: Frontiersman of the Old Northwest,
                        1819-1862. Edited by Donald Dean Parker. (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1966. Pp. xi, 272. Notes, maps, illustrations, appendices, bibliography, index.
                    $5.95.)
            Philander Prescott spent more than forty years on the upper Mississippi River
                    frontier. In 1819 he left his native 
                        New York
                     State to join his brother at 
                        Detroit
                    , but he soon moved to the new military  post at the
                    confluence of the 
                        Minnesota
                     and Mississippi Rivers, which was eventually called Fort Snelling.
                    Except for brief intervals he spent the rest of his life in that region as sutler's clerk,
                    fur trader, Indian interpreter, and farmer. His marriage to the daughter of a Sioux chieftain in
                    1823 gave him an added attachment to the area. Although a man respected for his integrity and hard
                    work, Prescott was not one of the important men on the frontier. He had little formal education,
                    never succeeded well in business, and attained public stature only as interpreter for the government
                    and as superintendent of Indian farming experiments near Fort Snelling. His unimpressive career
                    ended tragically when he was murdered by the Indians in the Sioux uprising of 1862.
            Yet Prescott's recollections, which he wrote about 1860 at the behest of Governor Alexander
                    Ramsey, are a significant document of early 
                        Minnesota
                    . In unaffected style he recorded his experiences from the time he left home to 1852,
                    ten years before his death, and supplied important insights into the life of the solitary fur
                    traders; the relations between Indians, traders, Indian agents, and army officers at Fort Snelling;
                    and the gradual development of the territory. It would be difficult to write the early history of
                    the Fort Snelling area without reliance on Prescott's work.
            It is helpful, then, to have this first complete printing of the recollections, to which the editor
                    has added selections from Prescott's official reports as farming superintendent; a
                    geneological appendix on Prescott's family; and miscellaneous supplementary notes about
                    persons, places, and other topics that appear in the recollections. The editorial technique,
                    however, raises serious questions. Parker indicates that he has divided Prescott's longhand
                    manuscript into sentences, paragraphs, and chapters, but he asserts, "The spelling,
                    punctuation, and capitalization, although inconsistent and sometimes incorrect, have been followed
                    with only a few exceptions" (p. x). This statement is decidedly misleading. A comparison of
                    the printed text with selected pages of the original manuscript shows innumerable cases in which
                    spelling has been corrected, capitalization changed, words omitted, punctuation supplied, and
                    abbreviations expanded. Whereas Prescott wrote a narrative that is run together and careless with
                    regard to punctuation and spelling, Parker has supplied a text with neat sentences and paragraphs
                    and impeccable spelling and punctuation. This might be legimate were the reader fairly warned, but
                    it destroys the flavor and thus some of the value of the original account. Canons for printing
                    manuscripts in literal form have become well established in our day and excellent examples abound.
                    It is to be regretted that the editor and publisher of this work did not follow them. Scholars who
                    want more than the simple factual content of Prescott's recollections will still have to
                    rely on the original manuscript in the possession of the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society.
            Marquette University
            Francis Paul Prucha
         
         
         
            
               George W. Norris: Gentle Knight of American Democracy. By Norman L. Zucker. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1966. Pp. X, 186. Frontispiece, notes, bibliography, index. $5.00.)
            Franklin D. Roosevelt during his campaign for the presidency in 1932 described Senator George W.
                    Norris as "the gentle knight of American progressive ideals." The author of this
                    book endorses Roosevelt's estimate. This is not to say that the book is a eulogy; the
                    author, a political scientist, often criticizes Norris‘ pet ideas, such as the unicameral
                    legislature and progressive inheritance tax. He finds an absence of sophistication in
                    Norris' notions about the virtue of small business, evil of political parties, and
                    railroad-middlemen responsibility for farm distress. Still, he always returns to the theme that
                    Norris was a man of conscience and courage who for more than forty years fought the good fight for
                    American liberalism.
            This is not a biography of Norris but a description and analysis of ideas and proposals over the many
                    years of his public service. It presents Norris as a man of the nineteenth century who never quite
                    made peace with the twentieth; a Populist more than a Progressive, who retained timeworn ideas about
                    "rugged individualism" and laissez faire, who saw the
                    "interests"-trusts, railroads, bankers-as the great enemies of democracy.
            The author used the Norris Papers in the Library of Congress, speeches and articles, the
                    autobiography, some unpublished graduate theses, and a range of secondary material. He did not
                    consult collateral manuscript sources.
            The book could have benefited from careful editing. The author's prose often has twists and
                    turns, as on page 5 where in the space of twelve lines the reader confronts three
                    "buts" and two "howevers." He meets a "Yet
                    although" on page 111 and a "however, although" on page 149. On page 78
                    he finds that some areas of the economy were "by their very nature natural
                    monopolies."
            While it lacks the spark of Norris' Fighting Liberal and offers no novel interpretations,
                    this book is a useful contribution to the expanding Norris literature. It is a concise and critical
                    analysis of the thought of an important spokesman of American liberalism in the first half of the
                    twentieth century.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            John Edward Wiltz
         
         
            
               The Cross Timbers: Memories of a North Texas Boyhood. By Edward Everett Dale.
                    (Austin: University of 
                        Texas
                     Press, 1966. Pp. 186. Illustrations, index. $4.75.)
            That E. E. Dale is one of the profession's most talented yarn spinners can be attested by
                    any historian fortunate enough to have attended a publishers' party at one of the uncrowded
                    conventions of a generation ago. There Dale could often be found, tall glass in hand (but seldom
                    touched), sprawled comfortably in an easy chair, charming his listeners with tales of his boyhood on
                    a 
                        Texas
                     farm or his early  manhood on the cattle ranches of
                    the Southwest. His fund of cowboy lore was as delightful as it was inexhaustible.
                    "There's no such thing as strong coffee," Dale would drawl,
                    "only weak men." Or he might add another cattle country slogan: "There
                    are mighty few women who know how little water it takes to make good coffee."
            For a younger generation of historians who missed those memorable sessions, this book will provide a
                    revealing experience. In it Dale tells of his boyhood on a pioneer farm in the lower Cross Timbers
                    of 
                        Texas
                     between 1882 and 1892. He was three years old when his 
                        Missouri
                    -born father moved there after trying his hand at gold digging in 
                        California
                     and 
                        Colorado
                     and homesteading in 
                        Nebraska
                    . He was thirteen when the restlessness that infected so many frontiersmen sent the
                    family on westward, after converting fifty-six acres of scrub and brush into a thriving farm. In
                    that decade Dale grew from a lisping child to young manhood, and thoroughly enjoyed the experience.
            Yet Dale has written this nostalgic book not to chronicle his own growth but to record instead an era
                    of history that has vanished forever. His purpose is to recapture the atmosphere of rural America in
                    the 188O's, and in this he succeeds admirably. He tells of the way of life, of the food
                    that people ate, the clothes they wore, the games they played, the hard work that was their constant
                    lot. His experiences, and the anecdotes that spice them, underline the differences between the
                    simple society of that day and the interlocking social order of today. His was a childhood in which
                    self-sufficiency was the rule (his father complained bitterly at having to spend three hundred
                    dollars a year on his family when his father had spent only one hundred); in which provincialism
                    prevailed (going "back east" meant a journey of thirty miles into the next
                    county); in which parents were respected (Dale was sure of punishment if he forgot to address his
                    father as "Sir"); in which workaday tasks absorbed the waking hours (schooling was
                    only required between the eighth and sixteenth year and was even then usually neglected); and in
                    which youth found pleasure in old-time religion and simple play parties rather than in the
                    mechanically oriented amusements of the urban-industrial world.
            This, in other words, is a book to be enjoyed by oldsters seeking to recall a rural past and by less
                    fortunate youngsters who were denied such firsthand experiences by the accident of birth. Carping
                    critics may suggest that Dale's total recall is suspect when he records episodes and
                    conversations that occurred in his third year, but they may be ignored. He has captured the spirit
                    of a past age, and has done so magnificently.
            
                    The 
                            Huntington
                         Library
                
            Ray Allen Billington
         
         
            
               Late Paleo-Indian and Early Archaic Manifestations in Western 
                            Kentucky
                        . By Martha Ann Rolingson and Douglas W. Schwartz. Studies in Anthropology, 3. ([
                        Lexington
                    ]: University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 1966. Pp. 168. Maps, illustrations, tables, references, index.
                    $5.00.)
            
            
               The Hardin Village Site. By Lee H. Hanson, Jr. Studies in
                        Anthropology, 4, ([
                        Lexington
                    ]: University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 1966. Pp. ix, 184. Figures, illustrations, tables, bibliography.
                    $5.00.)
            The years immediately prior to World War II witnessed more large scale archaeological excavations in
                    the 
                        United States
                     than any comparable period before or since. Mass unemployment, federal work support,
                    and the economically noncompetitive nature of archaeology combined to make such projects an ideal
                    consumer of labor; and almost every state had Works Progress Administration crews probing into
                    important prehistoric contexts. Tremendous numbers of artifacts and related data were produced, and
                    laboratory processing was more immediately important than interpretation. The violent termination of
                    the need for such projects in December, 1941, resulted in these data being transferred to museum
                    storage to await a quieter period; and there in greater part they remain.
            The two volumes reviewed owe their substantive sections to materials derived from this
                    archaeologically productive period. This and the fact that they are 
                        Kentucky
                     oriented are about all they have in common. The Rolingson and Schwartz study wrestles
                    with some of the earliest evidence for human occupation in the area; it is comparative and
                    interpretive, as well as descriptive and relevant to current archaeological inquiry. Hanson is
                    concerned with a single late site apparently occupied to the time of European contact and the report
                    is essentially descriptive.
            
               Late Paleo-Indian and Early Archaic Manifestations in Western 
                            Kentucky
                        
                focuses on the relationship between two early modes of life. One,
                    Paleo-Indian, has a primary hunting orientation which is defined in the main by the Occurrence of
                    relatively large leaf-shaped flint projectile points, many of which have a grooved or
                    "fluted" blade face. Such points are widely distributed in the 
                        United States
                    , are associated with extinct Pleistocene fauna in more western areas, and have been
                    dated prior to 9000 B.C. The second, Archaic, is based upon a more generalized pattern of life
                    involving hunting, gathering, and fishing and in its later periods to about 1500 B.C. is rather
                    fully documented. Though the over-all chronological relationship between the two is clear, it
                    remains that in many areas there appears to be a significant temporal overlap which poses
                    interpretive problems. This is the context of the Rolingson and Schwartz study.
            Four sites which have produced both Paleo-Indian and Archaic materials are discussed. Site contexts
                    are documented, artifacts are well described and photographed, and there is an interpretive summary
                    for each of the four locations. Both internal and external comparisons are made. Then the authors
                    attempt to interpret the significance of the 
                        Kentucky
                     material in terms of the original temporal problem. They are unsuccessful, though
                    Figure 72 suggests there may have been both Paleo-Indian and Archaic groups in 
                        Kentucky
                     prior to 7000 B.C. Since Rolingson and Schwartz conclude that their evidence neither
                    confirms nor denies this proposition, the presentation of the figure on the last page comes as
                    something of a surprise.
            
            This book was written for archaeologists, hence some of the technical jargon may seem somewhat
                    obscure. The reader may also be diverted by descriptions of materials found at several of the sites
                    that have no possible bearing on the major problem. However, the text is representative of
                    contemporary archaeological concern and presents for the first time in a systematic fashion a
                    substantial body of data which will be much used in the future.
            The Hardin Village site, located adjacent to the Ohio River in northeastern 
                        Kentucky
                    , dates from about 1500 to 1675 (pp. 174-76). It is representative of Fort Ancient
                    culture, an archaeological grouping extending from southeastern Indiana to the upper 
                        Ohio
                     Valley. There is convincing evidence that, at least in part, it represents the historic
                    Shawnee, hence it is one of the few archaeological complexes with specific historic anchors in the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley. As indicated above, this report is intended to be and is descriptive. Houses,
                    burials, pits, pots, points, and other aspects of material culture are taken up in detail. However,
                    little effort is made to reassemble these parts and to provide an integrated picture of what life
                    might have been at the time of occupation. Also, the difficulties of working with thirty-year-old
                    field notes is apparent in the text; and some of the descriptive terminology is cumbersome, e.g.
                    "double unknown and partly flexed pit," in reference to burial forms.
            Both volumes contribute to our knowledge of 
                        Ohio
                     Valley prehistory; and the University of 
                        Kentucky
                     and the editor, Douglas W. Schwartz, are to be commended for making available the
                    results of almost forgotten but important archaeological field work.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            James H. Kellar
         
         
            
               The Fur Trader and the Indian. By Lewis O. Saum. (Seattle: University of 
                        Washington
                     Press, 1965. Pp. xii, 324. Frontispiece, map, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $7.60.)
            Historians of the fur trade have detailed most of the important phases of the wilderness commerce in
                    furs and skins in which the Indian and the trader were often partners. The fur traders are usually
                    portrayed as bold, hardy pioneers who opened the paths for the white man's westward march
                    across the continent. Few historians have been seriously concerned with the tragic slaughter of
                    wildlife or the unpleasant story of the dispossession of the Indian after the animals were killed.
                    The Indian himself has been largely ignored unless he was involved in a significant political or
                    military event. There has been a tendency to treat Indians as geographical obstacles to the westward
                    movement, almost as if they were irritating mountain ranges or annoying arid wastelands. Moreover,
                    it is convenient to ignore Indians in history because, in many cases, the record is virtually
                    nonexistent. The Indians themselves left few written accounts of their own story. The youthful
                    Francis Parkman explains in his letters that he gave up writing a biography of Pontiac because of
                    the scarcity of sources.
            
            Lewis O. Saum's book breaks new ground in Indian history because he shows that for the
                    trader, the Indian represented a great deal more than a portion of the landscape. While there are
                    obvious difficulties in attempting to evaluate conclusions of traders who lived in different
                    centuries and who wrote about separate linguistic families, Saum demonstrates that the traders
                    viewed the Indian as a human being with human strengths and weaknesses: sometimes as a barbarian of
                    the Stone Age, sometimes as a noble savage, and sometimes as a valuable ally in the work of
                    acquiring furs. Generally, the traders seem to have had little to offer in the way of proposals to
                    "civilize" the natives. Often they expressed genuine pessimism about the
                    possibility of future changes in Indian societies. Nor did they express enthusiasm about encouraging
                    modification of the Indians' hunting mode of living which might interfere with fur trading.
                    Despite the flavor of self-interest in the writings of the traders, Saum's volume shows
                    that the observations of literate men like James Adair, Peter Skene Ogden, and Jedediah Smith help
                    to illuminate a shadowy era of the past. Their writings enable one to distinguish more clearly
                    between fact and fable in the story of the American Indian, which is increasingly being recognized
                    as an important part of the nation's heritage. Too much of what has been accepted as Indian
                    history has resulted from a plenitude of imagination.
            
                    University of 
                            California
                        , Santa Barbara
                
            Wilbur R. Jacobs
         
         
            
               The Jesuits and the Indian Wars of the Northwest. By Robert Ignatius Burns, S.
                    J. (
                        New Haven
                    : Yale University Press, 1966. Pp. xvi, 512. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $10.00.)
            Although some 125 separate Indian tribes lived in the Pacific Northwest at the time of first white
                    contact, numerical weakness, factionalism, and intertribal warfare prevented sustained or effective
                    defense of the region against the tide of white settlement. Seldom was a common front presented to
                    any enemy, Indian or white, with the result that white occupation of the region was comparatively
                    easy, marred only by brush-fire wars. Thus, aside from the dramatic dash for freedom by Chief
                    Joseph's little band of Nez Percé, the Indian wars of the far Northwest have
                    held little appeal for historians. This very readable and richly detailed book atones for that
                    scholarly neglect.
            Father Burns suggests that the presence of Jesuit missionaries, not Indian factionalism or weakness,
                    facilitated white takeover of the Northwest. He credits the strenuous and continuous Jesuit efforts
                    to maintain peace between the races with the prevention of large scale and protracted hostilities.
                    Since they often were the only whites trusted by the Indians, the missionaries assumed the role of
                    wilderness diplomats, mediating between hostile warriors and the white world. On several occasions
                    the missionaries were instrumental in the arrangement and negotiation of key peace treaties and land
                    cessions. Yet, despite the importance of their efforts, only scant mention was ever made in the  official reports of the Jesuit participation in these
                    activities. In part this was due to nineteenth century anti-Catholicism and nativism (most of the
                    Jesuit missionaries were foreign born); in part to the fact that government agents and army officers
                    did not like to share the glory and responsibilities for their successes. Ironically, rather than
                    thanking the missionaries for their efforts, many whites suspected them of instigating, directing,
                    and even arming the hostiles.
            The author has done a prodigious amount of research in printed and manuscript sources both here and
                    abroad, and he presents many new and interpretive perspectives to little known or legend-shrouded
                    events. His account for the most part is objective, dispassionate, and studied. He is at his best
                    when discussing the Northwest, but he reveals a lack of familiarity with peripheral topics: the
                    "fiery stake" was not common to the Plains Indians (p. 261), and the whites never
                    "closed in with Gatling guns to effect a near annihilation" of Dull
                    Knife's band of Cheyenne (p. 459). Also, spot checking of printed sources revealed some
                    errors. Many, such as listing Chief Black Hawk as "Black Horse" (p. 455), are of a
                    trivial nature; but others, such as substituting "really" for
                    "ready" in the quotation that "the Indians were really for war
                    …" (p. 266), could affect the validity of subsequent interpretations.
            Nevertheless, no one, buff or scholar, should miss this excellent addition to the Yale Western
                    Americana series.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Herman J. Viola
         
         
            
               American Intellectual Histories and Historians. By Robert Allen Skotheim. (
                        Princeton
                    , N.J.: 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1966. Pp. xi, 326. Notes, appendices, index. $6.95.)
            
               American Intellectual Histories and Historians is the first book-length study of
                    the writing of American intellectual history. Skotheim offers a review and analysis of the
                    backgrounds, methods, interpretations, and ideologies of all the major academic historians of ideas
                    in America from the pioneering efforts of Moses Coit Tyler to currently active writers such as
                    Daniel Boorstin. Although very much an exercise in professional self-consciousness, this
                    intellectual history of intellectual history is valuable as a careful and scholarly examination of
                    an enterprise which, since its beginning at the end of the last century, has assumed sizable
                    proportions and has had an important influence on over-all interpretations of the American past.
            Skotheim's analysis stresses ideology rather than methodology. He believes that the approach
                    to ideas which historians have taken has depended more on their images of desirable public policy or
                    ethical standards than on specifically methodological considerations. Their stance as men and
                    citizens has determined in large measure their attitude as historians. He sees two broad traditions.
                    One, exemplified in the work of Charles A. Beard, James Harvey Robinson, Carl Becker, Vernon L.
                    Parrington, and Merle Curti, is dedicated to reform, pacifism, pragmatism, and an ethics based on
                    science rather than religion. This  "Progressive
                    Tradition" sees ideas largely as the product of the social and economic environment and
                    therefore serves as a critical weapon in the reformer's hands by reducing religious,
                    social, and political ideas to defenses of vested interests. The second tradition, appearing in the
                    writings of Samuel Eliot Morison, Ralph Henry Gabriel, and Perry Miller, tends to a greater
                    political conservatism, a respect for tradition, an interest in religion, a belief in the martial
                    virtues, and a scepticism about the perfectibility of man by any process of social reform.
                    Methodologically it is distinguished by an interest in ideas for their own sake and imputes a causal
                    effect to them rather than reducing them to reflections of the environment. Skotheim argues in a
                    short final chapter that these two traditions, after a generation of mutual conflict, have been
                    "converging" since the 1940's as younger men try to borrow from the
                    strengths of both traditions and to apply them carefully to narrow, specialized topics.
            In this survey of the fairly short past of intellectual history as a specialized discipline, Skotheim
                    offers many useful insights into the way that such twentieth century events as the two world wars
                    and the rise of totalitarianism have affected historians' judgments of the values and
                    ideals which Americans have held in the past. On the other hand, his emphasis on ideology tends to
                    sort writers into categories which sometimes do far less than full justice to their achievements as
                    historians. The treatment, for example, of Perry Miller, the greatest American intellectual
                    historian, simply must be called inadequate.
            Poor writing is the main fault of this useful book. Long quotations are juxtaposed to even longer
                    paraphrases, and key points are repeated page after page with minimal verbal alterations. Sometimes
                    a quotation is exactly repeated within a few pages. (See for instance pp. 206 and 210; 224 and 225).
                    It takes rather too much patience to read through the book. But if one does, he can learn a great
                    deal. It is certainly essential reading for anyone interested in either intellectual history or
                    American historiography.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Robert D. Marcus
         
         
            
               Origins of the Common Law. By Arthur R. Hogue. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1966. Pp. xii, 276. Glossary, notes, index.
                    $6.60.)
            "Literature about the common law," Hogue states in his Preface, "is
                    usually written by trained lawyers for trained lawyers. There is a place, I believe, for a book
                    which does not assume professional legal training." He has accordingly written a book about
                    English common law as it existed and developed between the accession of Henry II in 1154 and the
                    death of Edward I in 1307; but where necessary, he goes beyond the limits set by these dates. He has
                    viewed the law against the social and economic, political and administrative backgrounds from which
                    it sprang, so that his book is a potpourri of many facets of English history. Some of these, such as
                    the agricultural techniques  employed in medieval 
                        England
                    , are of questionable relevance to his main theme.
            Although there is no bibliography, it is obvious from the footnotes that Hove has read widely in the
                    sources and literature of his subject. It is therefore surprising to find no references to
                    Sutherland's important book on Quo warranto, to Holt's book and
                    Cam's paper on Magna Carta, and to Galbraith's two volumes on the public records
                    and his book on Domesday. But, as Hogue admits, he has been eclectic in his treatment. What emerges
                    is a clearly written, somewhat repetitious, pulling together of most of the standard works on
                    English common law. If the book is intended for the layman, as the Preface and Glossary suggest,
                    then Hogue has achieved his purpose, although it is difficult for the reviewer to believe that the
                    classic works of Pollock and Maitland and Plucknett "assume professional legal
                    training." If the book is intended for the student, then it would have to be for the
                    student who has never had a thorough course in English medieval history. For one who has had such a
                    course, it would add little to what he should have learned.
            
                    Emory University
                
            G. P. Cuttino
         
         
            
               Agents and Merchants: British Colonial Policy and the Origins of the American
                        Revolution, 1763-1775. By Jack M. Sosin. (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1965. Pp. xvi, 267. Notes, illustrations, selected bibliography, index.
                    $5.50.)
            
               Agents and Merchants searches the causes of the American Revolution even more
                    closely than did the author's first book, Whitehall and the Wilderness. In so doing, it
                    maintains the fine scholarship so characteristic of Sosin's work.
            This volume offers perhaps the best defense yet written of British administration from 1763 to 1775.
                    Several historians will disagree with the imperial point of view and argue the case for colonial
                    sovereignty; but this book will force modification of the charges of ignorance or tyranny, or both,
                    often levelled against the men who guided Britain's empire after the Seven Years'
                    War. Indeed, given Sosin's premise that the critical factor in imperial relations after
                    1763 was the colonial challenge to the mother country's sovereignty, a Britain not only
                    well-informed but eminently reasonable is revealed. So long as the colonies recognized the authority
                    of Parliament, successive ministries compromised with America over specific measures designed to
                    implement that authority.
            The author focuses on the relations of colonial agents and merchants trading to America with the
                    various British ministries and examines their influence on ministerial decisions. He finds this
                    lobby securing considerable benefits for the colonists until 1773. After that he sees its influence
                    dwindling. The lobby did not significantly affect ministerial decisions in the last two years of
                    peace.
            Before 1773 every administration, even Grenville's, altered its colonial legislation to meet
                    colonial requests. Concessions made depended  largely on the
                    advice of the people most aware of colonial wishes, the agents and merchants. This group might even
                    have stopped the Stamp Act had the colonies allowed them to present an alternative tax to Grenville.
                    As it was, the First Lord modified the Mutiny Act and was prepared to lift some trade restrictions
                    before he lost office. The agents and merchants' greatest success came with
                    Rockingham's ministry. Their influence did not cause repeal of the Stamp Act, for
                    Rockingham had determined upon repeal before consulting them; but they helped present the case for
                    repeal to Parliament. They further influenced the establishment of free ports in 
                        Jamaica
                     and 
                        Dominica
                     and a reduction in the molasses duty. Their lobby prompted the Grafton ministry to
                    abandon all save one of the Townshend duties and the North ministry to ease significantly the
                    currency restrictions established in 1764.
            Unfortunately, when the agents and merchants needed strength and unity to prevent or modify the
                    Coercive Acts they were at their weakest, in numbers and influence. Many agents had died; and the
                    few remaining came to be associated in ministerial eyes, Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                     in particular, with factions in the colonial assemblies who advocated independence from
                    parliamentary rule. Ministers had decided not to temporize with the Americans after the 
                        Boston
                     Tea Party- especially when the only effective colonial lobbyist avowedly denied
                    parliamentary sovereignty–and the Coercive Acts ensued. The subsequent olive branch North
                    offered owed more to Gage's military assessment of the situation in North America and the
                    unity of colonial opposition than to any work of the agents and merchants.
            In the course of his narrative Sosin offers some provocative incidentals concerning
                    Grenville's offer of an alternative to the Stamp Act, American misunderstanding of the
                    effect of its economic boycotts on British policy, and final misinterpretation by the agents to the
                    Americans of the basic purpose of the Coercive Acts. As Sosin states, if the Americans advanced a
                    principle between 1763 and 1775 so did the British. Every ministry asserted that sovereignty must
                    lie within the Parliament of the parent state, not within the various assemblies of the North
                    American continent, if the empire were to survive.
            
                    University of 
                            Massachusetts
                        
               
                
            Franklin B. Wickwire
         
         
            
               Naval Documents of the American Revolution. Volume I, American
                        Theatre: Dec. 1, 1774-Sept. 2, 1775; European Theatre: Dee. 6, 1774-Aug. 9, 1775. Edited by
                    William Bell Clark. (
                        Washington
                    : Government Printing Office, 1964. Pp. xliii, 1,451. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    appendices, bibliography, index. $9.00.)
            The first of a projected fifteen-volume series, Naval Documents of the American Revolution represents
                    a departure from current editorial ventures related to the revolutionary period of American history.
                    The Papers of Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                     are, after all, devoted to correspondence to and from 
                        Franklin
                    ; problems of identification and association exist, but they are manageable. This
                    reviewer is concerned with the  manageability of editing
                    documentary material regarding naval affairs during the American Revolution. Here is a topic which
                    cuts across the easier divisions confronting other editors, and the present sampling creates doubts
                    as to the essential validity of the concept and certainly of its execution.
            This project, furthermore, suggests the inherent difficulties stemming from its Navy Department
                    parentage. There is a certain amateur flavor about its production, a certain
                    naivété about its presentation, which the listing of a distinguished advisory
                    committee is not sufficient to dispel. Indeed, in view of the errors in this first volume, one
                    wonders at the role of such "special consultants" as Lyman H. Butter-field and
                    Leonard W. Labaree. Suffice it to observe that naval personnel may be uplifted with the reminder
                    that "From the past comes inspiration. It stirs us and those after us to
                    emulate the courage, the selfless service, the patriotic sacrifice of our ancestors" (p.
                    xii). It is comforting to reflect upon the historical contributions of Thomas S. Gates and Arleigh
                    Burke, who labored in the congressional vineyards to secure funds for this project, in competition
                    with Polaris and National Aeronautics and Space Administration. It is good to know that the Advisory
                    Committee on Naval History gave ‘(many sound sailing directions" to this
                    editorial voyage and to learn that the second volume "steams in close formation behind this
                    one" (p. xvii).
            The non-navy editor of this series, William Bell Clark, is clearly aware of his unusual problems. He
                    acknowledges the difficulty of identifying events which appear non-naval in complexion but which do
                    have naval connotations-such as the taking of Fort Ticonderoga. He admits that there are occasions
                    when he is obliged to present excerpts from letters, the bulk of which may be unconcerned with naval
                    or maritime affairs. Indeed, Clark goes further in his confessional: he concedes the shortcuts
                    undertaken, the reliance upon copies rather than originals, the use of transcripts (of dubious
                    accuracy) rather than official texts. Rear Admiral Ernest McNeill Eller in his inspirational
                    introduction notes that "for economy we have been forced to stow a large cargo between
                    these covers" (p. xvi). It would seem that concern with economy may have gone too far, that
                    the planning and execution of this series have been hurried, that the editor deserved greater
                    professional assistance than was furnished.
            Yet no one would deny that this volume is well worth having, that it is indeed a major bargain. There
                    is much of value contained in these 1,451 pages: it is good to have the correspondence of Admiral
                    Graves and the admiralty, the dispatches between the colonial secretary and the royal governors, the
                    many private communications with bearing on naval developments (although they are often snippets, a
                    sentence or two denied their context, as with the Jefferson letter on page 815). And the accuracy of
                    the text supplied is usually impressive, at least in relation to the source selected.
            It is this last qualification that will make historians uneasy. There should have been a greater
                    effort to consult the original documents; there should have been a more systematic review of the
                    governor's correspondence, Germain's contributions, and the many relevant papers
                         of George III. Vital endorsements are missing.
                    Identifications, admittedly attempted with a frequency unknown to users of many other editorial
                    projects, are nevertheless a hit-and-miss affair. Many obvious names are noted, but many of the less
                    familiar remain just that. It is not enough to concede the inadequacy of the index, so vital to a
                    work of this sort.
            If this review reveals more than a slight sense of disappointment it is because so many of the flaws
                    were avoidable, the product of carelessness, haste, or unfamiliarity with the general history of the
                    period. Many of the problems, to be sure, derive from the nature of the project and deserved the
                    undivided attention of a cluster of professional historians. Rear Admiral Eller, in remarking on the
                    record of four years' filming of materials in the Manuscript Division of the Library of
                    Congress, noted we "still have not reached home port" (p. xiv). He was right.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Trevor Colbourn
         
         
            
               The Incredible War of 1812: A Military History. By J. Mackay Hitsman. ([
                        Toronto
                    ]: University of 
                        Toronto
                     Press, 1965. Pp. x, 265. Maps, illustrations, appendix, bibliography, index.
                    $7.50.)
            Frequently a clever title induces a somewhat passive index scanner or book thumber to select a
                    particular work. This is not the motive of the Canadian historian, Roger Hitsman, who attempts to
                    convince the reader that, indeed, the War of 1812 was incredible and was marked by civil apathy,
                    military incompetence, and a near worthless 
                        United States
                     War Department. Only Sir George Prevost, superintendent-general of 
                        Canada
                    , and the British regular soldier manage to escape the author's process of
                    diminution. In combination these two forces drubbed the Americans in virtually every military
                    encounter. In exuberantly assessing the British effort in 1814 Hitsman writes, "In the
                    Northwest at least the British flag waved undisputed" (p. 205). The author's
                    enthusiasm disposes of many events rather lightly, for British victories did not drum forth in quite
                    so continuous a pattern. From the summer of 1813 American power in the West was supreme. The 
                        United States
                     gained control of Lake Erie; placed Colonel Procter and his force
                    of Redcoats, militia, and Indians in desperate straits for want of supplies; regained Fort 
                        Detroit
                    ; forced the enemy from Fort Malden; and shattered the dream of Tecumseh at the Battle
                    of the Thames.
            Hitsman's forte is his analysis of the military struggle in Lower 
                        Canada
                    . The area from Lake 
                        Ontario
                     and Kingston to Montreal via the St. Lawrence River is the heart
                    of the book. One is struck by the cautious character of both Commodore James Yeo and his American
                    counterpart, Captain Isaac Chauncey, who carried out near comic naval maneuvers on Lake 
                        Ontario
                    . Neither desired to risk an engagement without a clear superiority of gunpower.
                    Historians have neglected the deployment of militia in protecting convoys of bateaux which carried
                    much needed supplies up the northern life line. In turn, this action  freed the British regular for military operations. Supplies also came
                    from another direction. The activities of frontier merchants in 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Vermont
                     can either be termed entrepreneurship or smuggling depending upon one's
                    tastes. Higher prices paid by the Commissariat Department of the British Army appealed to those
                    transporting goods by sleigh across the frozen St. Lawrence.
            The author's use of government documents—particularly those from the public
                    archives of 
                        Canada
                    —is impressive and reveals gaps in earlier scholarship. Yet the vast and
                    scattered diaries and personal letters might have been drawn upon to complement the cold numbers of
                    prisoners captured or the fire power of various ships. Better omitted are such quotations as the
                    first verse of the national anthem written during the British bombardment of 
                        Baltimore
                     (p. 212). On a brighter note, the detailed maps and carefully selected illustrations
                    are of the highest quality and provide a welcome contrast to other recent works on the War of 1812.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            George Chalou
         
         
            
               James K. Polk, Continentalist, 1843-1846. Volume 11. By Charles Sellers. (
                        Princeton
                    , N.J.: 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1966. Pp. x, 613. Notes, illustrations, sources, index.
                    $12.50.)
            This is the second installment of a massive three-volume biography of Polk. In the nine years since
                    the appearance of the first volume a number of writers have argued about the relative greatness of
                    American presidents, Polk included. Sellers is naturally inclined to bet on his man. He lays some
                    stress on the legislative and diplomatic accomplishments of Polk's first fifteen months in
                    office, but he avoids final judgment. This is just as well, for Polk still has the Mexican War to
                    fight.
            Sellers' greatest accomplishments in this volume are the examination and digestion of a
                    staggering mass of public and personal papers. These record the fine Italian maneuverings of the
                    Democratic and Whig parties through the presidential campaign of 1844, the final agonies of 
                        Texas
                     annexation, the tedious 
                        Oregon
                     debate, and the involvement with Mexico which ended in hostilities. If Sellers has
                    missed any substantial collection of political correspondence, this reader is unaware of it. He
                    knows his way around the smoke-filled rooms of the mid-forties as well as James Reston or Joseph
                    Alsop today. For example, his account of how Polk used half-promises about cabinet posts to obtain
                    Senate votes for the joint resolution on 
                        Texas
                     goes far to clear up a problem hitherto explained almost entirely by speculation. Here
                    and elsewhere Sellers balances admiration for Polk's deftness, persistence, and luck with
                    regret that he had to incur suspicions of treachery and widen the breach between North and South.
            Polk was less perceptive as a diplomat than as a politician; appropriately, Sellers loses some
                    sureness of touch when he turns from domestic to foreign affairs, which occupy about half of the
                    book. Even  here he introduces new materials, such as a hitherto
                    unknown set of letters by Louis McLane to his son about the 
                        Oregon
                     negotiations in 
                        London
                     and McLane's political ambitions. Also Sellers has the advantage of much
                    earlier research in the British archives by Frederick Merk and others. Unfortunately, however, he
                    has failed to use the very revealing dispatches of the British minister to the 
                        United States
                    , Sir Richard Pakenham. In assessing cause and effect he has not always been careful to
                    allow for the slow communications of the 1840's. Thus he reproves McLane for his disloyal
                    letters of January 2 and 3, 1846, in which McLane informed John C. Calhoun of conciliatory spirit in 
                        England
                     and "unwittingly encouraged" the latter's peace movement in
                    Congress (p. 383). Calhoun could not have received the letters much before January 26, when
                    McLane's official dispatch of January 3 arrived in 
                        Washington
                    ; and by Sellers' own account the peace bloc was in full operation by January
                    12 (p. 368). McLane may not have been wholly loyal to his superiors, but his information came too
                    late to have decisive effect.
            The account of the coming of the Mexican War sheds little new light on the Mexican background, being
                    based primarily on American diplomatic correspondence and a few standard secondary accounts. By
                    implication, however, this emphasis suggests how limited was Polk's knowledge of Mexican
                    character and institutions, and the American political aspects of the declaration of war are well
                    handled. Sellers has chosen an unfortunate title for the chapter dealing with Mexican negotiation:
                    "A Hard War Averted—and an Easy War Gained." The term
                    "easy" as applied to the Mexican War is probably intended to represent
                    Polk's attitude, but this should be made clear. In any case, as the author will surely
                    demonstrate in his final volume, the Mexican War proved to be far from easy and its hidden cost to
                    the American people dismayingly high.
            The abundance of Sellers' materials and the complexity of the problems with which he deals
                    make for a crowded, sometimes opaque style and slow reading. Nevertheless, he has written an
                    impressive, scholarly account of national politics at one of the critical points in American
                    political history.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            David M. Pletcher
         
         
            
               Harper's University: The Beginnings. By Richard J. Storr. A History of the University of 
                            Chicago
                        . (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1966. Pp. xvi, 411. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical notes, index.
                    $8.95.)
            This book, based on an impressive amount of research, is concerned with the founding of the
                    University of 
                        Chicago
                     and its first sixteen years under the aggressive leadership of its initial president,
                    William Rainey Harper. In making this study Storr had free access to the extensive records of the
                    university and also to the relevant material in the Rockefeller archives—which records
                    seem to cover almost every aspect of the founding and early history of the institution. Moreover,
                         the University of 
                        Chicago
                     gave Storr further help in the form of free time and research assistants during the
                    years this study was under way. The result is a richly informed, thoughtful book.
            Thorstein Veblen concludes The Higher Learning in America by saying that
                    "as seen from the point of view of the higher learning, the academic executive and all his
                    works are anathema, and should be discontinued …; and … the governing board
                    … has the same value and should … be lost in the same shuffle." But,
                    as Storr makes abundantly clear, without the money and other support by John D. Rockefeller, the
                    captain of industry, and without the ideas and drive of the captain of erudition, William Rainey
                    Harper, there would have been no University of 
                        Chicago
                    ; and higher learning in the 
                        United States
                     would have been much the poorer in consequence.
            The University of 
                        Chicago
                     was chartered in 1890 as a kind of successor to the old University of 
                        Chicago
                    , a Baptist-sponsored institution that had collapsed in 1886. Baptists, both clergymen
                    and laymen, had begun to cast about for leadership and benefactors to establish another institution
                    under the same name; and they found them in Harper and Rockefeller. Harper accepted the presidency
                    after some hesitation and with steady and generous support from Rockefeller for the next decade and
                    a half worked with great energy to create an outstanding institution. Harper quickly brought
                    together a distinguished group of teachers and scholars and exhibited what one of
                    Rockefeller's agents described as a "tendency to absorb into the University
                    everything that is loose" (p. 344). Hence it is not surprising that there was never enough
                    money to go around. Although Rockefeller was generous and there were other benefactors, the
                    University of 
                        Chicago
                     continued to present during the Harper years the somewhat curious picture of a wealthy
                    institution almost constantly harassed by deficits. It was even darkly hinted that the university
                    was "an organized effort to rob Rockefeller of his wealth" (p. 357).
            The book is concerned primarily with the internal history of the university and probably gives as
                    detailed a picture of the establishment and early conflicts as we are apt to have. This fine study
                    will not soon be displaced. It is to be regretted, however, that Storr on the basis of his great
                    knowledge of the university does not offer an assessment of the larger impact that Harper and his
                    university had in deepening and broadening higher education throughout the 
                        United States
                    . Perhaps this will come in a later book.
            
                    University of 
                            Washington
                        
               
                
            Vernon Carstensen
         
         
            
               Descriptive Bibliography of Civil War Manuscripts in 
                            Illinois
                        . By William L. Burton. ([
                        Evanston
                    ]: Northwestern University Press, for The Civil War Centennial Commission of 
                        Illinois
                    , 1966. Pp. xv, 393. Index. $8.50.)
            Some state Civil War centennial commissions organized pageants and staged re-enactments, making
                    considerable hoop-la-la and gaining headlines for a day. After the tumult and the shouting died
                    down,  there were no constructive results of the
                    commissioners' work to hand down to posterity. Other states commemorated the Civil War
                    centennial by developing a program of research and publication, making future generations indebted
                    to commission members intelligent enough to differentiate between noisy nonsense and worthwhile
                    projects.
            No state has done more to make scholars indebted to her than 
                        Illinois
                    , and her Civil War Centennial Commission deserves a special citation for conceiving
                    worthwhile projects. One of the products of the imaginative 
                        Illinois
                     commission is the recently published guide entitled Descriptive
                        Bibliography of Civil War Manuscripts in 
                            Illinois
                        . Commission members evidently felt that, since 
                        Illinois
                     was a pivotal state during the Civil War, their state's manuscript material
                    was of interest and value to historians and scholars of the entire country. Originally, the
                    commission set out to describe and index all of the manuscript material within the state related to
                    the Civil War. The original plan was modified when it was realized that some private collections and
                    countless single documents were not available for public use, and listing them would have little
                    value for the researcher. The commission made the project more workable by limiting listings to the
                    1860-1865 era, rather than including all items (regardless of their date) which were related to the
                    war.
            The guide lists manuscripts held in twenty-eight 
                        Illinois
                     libraries. Nine are public libraries scattered over the state; nine are college or
                    university libraries; five are county historical society museums; and the rest are the well-known
                    research centers. The two manuscript collections that stand out above the others are those of the 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Society and the 
                        Chicago
                     Historical Society—perhaps ninety per cent of the listings in the guide are
                    based upon the manuscript holdings of those two important societies.
            No matter what subject a researcher in Civil War history pursues, he is apt to find some documents
                    bearing upon his topic listed in Descriptive Bibliography of Civil War Manuscripts in 
                            Illinois
                        . An important segment of the papers of Nathaniel P. Banks, for example, are in
                    the 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Society. There are four letters of B. Gratz 
                        Brown
                    , eleven Horace Greeley items, seven letters written by Andrew Johnson, and a surprising
                    number of Robert E. Lee letters. Hoosiers, quite naturally, will wonder if any letters of their
                    illustrious citizens are available next door. There are a few—e.g., one William H.
                    English letter, eight Oliver P. Morton letters, two insignificant Caleb B. Smith letters, and three
                    Lew Wallace items.
            Typographical errors are virtually nonexistent. The index is superb. The book is a product of offset
                    printing. William L. Burton, who directed the project, deserves thanks for his pithy annotations.
                    Other states would do well to emulate the example of 
                        Illinois
                    . Three cheers for Burton and the Civil War Centennial Commission of 
                        Illinois
                    .
            Marquette University
            Frank L. Klement
         
         
         
            
               The Reconstruction of 
                            Georgia
                        . By Alan Conway. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1966. Pp. vi, 248. Notes, selected bibliography, index. $6.50.)
            In recent years the pendulum of Reconstruction historiography has swung sharply toward a liberal,
                    northern, pro-Negro interpretation. Historians of non-southern background such as John Hope
                    Franklin, W. R. Brock, Kenneth Stampp, Richard Current, Otto Olsen, and others have demolished many
                    of the old myths about malevolent radicals, corrupt carpetbaggers, rascally scalawags, and
                    incompetent Negroes conspiring to rule or ruin the prostrate postwar South. It is now pretty firmly
                    established that Reconstruction was a complex mixture of good and evil; that the radical regimes in
                    the South were progressive and beneficial in some endeavors and corrupt in others; that the
                    Fourteenth and Fifteenth amendments, though imperfectly enforced and ultimately betrayed, were
                    nevertheless significant achievements; and that the real tragedy of Reconstruction was not the
                    effort to thrust the ill-prepared freedmen into immediate citizenship, but the failure to undertake
                    a massive program of education, retraining, and economic reform of the South.
            In their zeal to redress the historiographical balance, some of the revisionist historians may have
                    sketched slightly too attractive a profile of radicals and Negroes. This is not true of Alan
                    Conway's portrait of 
                        Georgia
                     during Reconstruction. A Briton who teaches at the University College of 
                        Wales
                    , Conway brings to his subject a degree of detachment that is perhaps impossible for
                    Americans who are too emotionally involved in the Second Reconstruction to view the First with
                    equanimity. This is not to say that Conway's book lacks concern and feeling. On the
                    contrary, the author tells his story in a concise, readable style that gives the reader a
                    sympathetic insight into the tremendous social, political, and economic problems facing the
                    participants in Reconstruction and an understanding of the reasons why many of these problems were
                    unsolved, indeed perhaps insoluble. There are no heroes and few villains in this book, but there are
                    human beings struggling with issues too large for them.
            The Ku Klux Klan and similar groups are the nearest things to villains in the book. Conway plainly
                    has no sympathy with the Klan, which he sees as the extralegal means of achieving the main
                    objectives of the Democratic party in 
                        Georgia
                    : "first, to restrict the Negro freedmen to a social reservation beyond the
                    pale of white society where they could be kept subservient hewers of wood and sycophantic drawers of
                    water; second, to destroy by means of intimidation and violence the ability of the Negro vote to
                    keep the Republican party in power" (pp. 172-73). The major issue in 
                        Georgia
                     Reconstruction was white supremacy; and the only factor that held former Whigs,
                    Know-Nothings, Democrats, secessionists, and Unionists together in the postwar Democratic party
                    "was the common conviction that 
                        Georgia
                     must remain a white man's country—a conviction which for most would
                    have remained unshaken had Christ himself come to 
                        Georgia
                     as a colored field hand"  (p. 180). Conway
                    expresses mild disagreement with the C. Vann Woodward thesis that thoroughgoing racism and
                    segregation were developments of the late nineteenth century: by 1870 in 
                        Georgia
                     "Woodward's ‘capitulation to racism’ had
                    already taken place and, faute de mieux, accepted" (p. 99). Conway also
                    advances the provocative but thinly documented argument that the supposed contrast between the
                    kindly, paternal attitude of upper-class whites toward the Negro and the virulent, violent racism of
                    the rednecks is largely a myth: "Hatred, fear, resentment, and distrust of the Negro, in
                    their many forms, came … from all quarters and from all sections of society" (p.
                    63).
            This book treats all facets of the comparatively short Reconstruction period in 
                        Georgia
                     (the state was fully "redeemed" by 1871), but it focuses particularly
                    on the problems of the transition from a slave labor to a free labor agricultural economy.
                    Sharecropping, tenancy, and the crop-lien system were the unhappy solutions to this problem. The
                    absence of an agrarian reform effort to bring widespread land ownership to the freedmen has been
                    viewed by some recent historians as the key to the failure of Reconstruction. Conway expresses
                    qualified agreement with this view, but argues that land ownership alone would not have overcome the
                    lack of incentive, capital, and training that both races, but especially the Negro, inherited from
                    slavery. Conway concludes that the problems of Reconstruction, and especially the intertwined issues
                    of race, poverty, and agriculture, were virtually insoluble: "In part the bitterness of
                    Reconstruction was the bitterness of a people left to grapple with a racial problem to which there
                    was no solution- left, moreover, to grapple with it in an environment of economic
                    stagnation" (p. 228). This is a sobering conclusion, for it suggests that the failures of
                    Reconstruction were not the fault of human error but of the very nature of the race problem itself,
                    a problem that is timeless and perhaps as insoluble today as a century ago.
            
                    
                  
                            Princeton
                         University
                
            James M. McPherson
         
         
            
               For History's Sake: The Preservation and Publication of 
                            North Carolina
                         History, 1663-1903. By H. G. Jones. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1966. Pp. xvi, 319. Notes, illustrations, selected bibliography, index.
                    $7.50.)
            As archivist of 
                        North Carolina
                     during the past decade, H. G. Jones has contributed to the development of one of the
                    outstanding state record collections. His efforts, and those of his predecessors, were rewarded in
                    1964 when the Society of American Archivists awarded its first Distinguished Service Award to the 
                        North Carolina
                     State Department of Archives and History. Unfortunately, the state has not always been
                    so diligent. In the years before the establishment of the archival department there was no
                    systematic collection of the records. This book is a meticulously researched account of one
                    state's sporadic concern for its documentary heritage.
            Jones makes no attempt to deal with the private manuscript holdings in 
                        North Carolina
                    ; his concern is the public record. The scope  of the
                    subject is broad, spanning the years from 1663, when the colony was chartered, to 1903, when a
                    permanent archive was created. Dividing the book into three parts, the author first discusses the
                    public records and their keepers, then several nineteenth century historians who tried to preserve
                    and publish these records, and finally the historical societies which sought to collect the public
                    manuscripts.
            The organization of the volume is its greatest weakness, as there are numerous instances of
                    repetition. Members of the state government were often either amateur historians or worked with the
                    followers of Clio and also took part in the activities of the historical societies. Thus, they are
                    involved in the narrative in three different places.
            The surprising discovery in the first section of the book is the desperate attempt by some public
                    servants to maintain their records and the multiplicity of laws passed by the state to aid in this
                    endeavor. The author concludes in the second portion that the historians of the state made a vital
                    contribution not only in publishing and collecting archival materials, but also by urging elected
                    officials and the public to help safeguard the history of the state.
            The author has not allowed the pursuit of dusty, dry documents to leave his prose in a similar
                    condition. There are several colorful incidents in the narrative: in 1791, some of the colonial
                    records were taken by wagon to 
                        Tennessee
                     to prevent their capture by the British, and in 1865 the records were dispersed as
                    General Sherman's army advanced on Raleigh. Jones' Holmes-like sleuthing to trace
                    the course of lost manuscripts is interesting, though somewhat tedious when many pages are devoted
                    to one such adventure.
            This is the first history of a state's attempt to preserve its public archives. The
                    publishers claim that it is a contribution to "archival science," and the author
                    suggests the need for similar mongraphs for the other states. This reviewer doubts the value of such
                    studies given the limits of the topic. The omission of private holdings and the collections of
                    universities and other historical agencies severely reduce the significance of works of this type.
            
                    University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        , Milwaukee
                
            Keith L. Bryant, Jr.
         
         
            
               The History of the 
                            United States
                         of America from the Discovery of the Continent. By George Bancroft. Abridged
                    and edited by Russel B. Nye. [Classic American Historians. Edited by Paul M.
                    Angle.] (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1966. Pp. xxvi, 386. Notes, illustrations, bibliographical note, index.
                    Paper-bound, $3.45; clothbound, $8.50.)
            Bancroft's volumes, the golden eagles on their covers brown with age, have long stood
                    neglected on library shelves. Historical specialists and busy laymen have no time to follow
                    Bancroft's stately prose as it flows majestically from the vision of 
                        Columbus
                     to the apotheosis of the Constitution. The Classic American Historians series has
                    rescued Bancroft for our hurried generation by issuing a volume of selections  from his History and tailoring it to the modern
                    demand for economy of time and money. Bancroft labored over half a century writing and rewriting his
                        History; now one can read this slim volume in a single day. Russel B. Nye, a
                    happy choice for editor, opens the book with an interesting but all too brief account of
                    Bancroft's life and writings. Eleven pages can hardly do justice to a life which nearly
                    spanned the nineteenth century, a life crammed with study and writing, politics and diplomacy. The
                    editing approaches the miraculous. Only 26 of the original 242 chapters and fewer than 400 of the
                    original 3,500 pages are included; yet the flavor, scope, and proportion of Bancroft's History is scrupulously preserved. The editor is also to be commended for the
                    informative headnotes which precede most of the chapters.
            Goethe once said that "the greatest man is always linked to his own century through some
                    weakness." Both the strengths and weaknesses of Bancroft are those of nineteenth-century
                    America. His unshakable belief in God, country, and progress made him write history as a morality
                    play where heroes conquered villains in the name of freedom, union, and the 
                        United States
                    . Neither Bancroft nor his age heeded the gentle reminder of Thomas Carlyle that
                    "all things have light and shadow." The past must not question the present; it
                    must justify it. Nor did Bancroft doubt that the noble characters and theme of our history demanded
                    noble treatment. His style was the prose genre of his century, stately phrases, balanced sentences,
                    and rhetorical flourishes. His history is less the story of America from 
                        Columbus
                     to the Constitution than a portrait of his age.
            Today historians only mention Bancroft to scoff at his faith and ridicule his method. They should
                    remember his claim that he tried not to make a statement without the original source; that he
                    ransacked two continents in search of documents; and that contrary to this age of "kept
                    scholars," he spent over $100,000 of his own money on historical materials. Most
                    of all Bancroft should be read to get a prospective on ourselves. Have surer answers been obtained
                    only by asking smaller questions? Is present-day bias less or only more subtle? Is skepticism as
                    much a product of this age as Bancroft's optimism was of his? Will our writings three
                    quarters of a century from now be read like Bancroft's only for the insight they give into
                    our times?
            
                    Duquesne University
                
            Joseph C. Burke
         
         
            
               A History of American Acting. By Garff B. Wilson. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1966. Pp. x, 310. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $6.95.)
            Although much has been written about American actors and acting, A History of American
                        Acting is the first attempt to present an overview of the subject. Thus, it is a welcome
                    and much needed book. The title is misleading, however, for the book is devoted almost entirely to
                    the period 1820-1920. Approximately five pages serve to cover the years before 1820, while only
                    twenty-six are devoted to acting since the First World War. Of these, a mere six are concerned with
                    the legitimate  stage, the others dealing with motion pictures,
                    television, and radio. The latter discussion, along with earlier sections on vaudeville, minstrel
                    shows, burlesque, and circuses, places acting in a broader context than the legitimate theatre but
                    does not compensate the reader for the cursory treatment of both the earlier and later years.
            Wilson has discussed practically all the actors of note between 1820 and 1920, about forty of them in
                    detail. Edwin Forrest, as the first native-born actor to win fame, and Minnie Maddern Fiske, as the
                    actress most instrumental in the transition to the modern theatre, are treated at greatest length;
                    and it is they who form the parentheses between which the others are placed.
            Wilson is primarily concerned with styles of acting as they developed and persisted through the
                    nineteenth century. To facilitate his study he has grouped actors into schools: heroic, classic,
                    emotional, personality, the comic stage, and heirs to the heroic and classic schools. These
                    groupings emphasize with considerable clarity the similarities and differences among various actors.
                    On the other hand, the scheme has its weaknesses, as a look at the categories will reveal. The
                    "comic stage" is not parallel with the others; furthermore, the actors included
                    under this heading were as varied in their styles as were the serious actors.
            The category "heirs of the heroic and classic schools" gives the impression, one
                    that is obviously intentional, that no actor who made his debut after 1875 reached the eminence of
                    his predecessors. Each, with the exception of Mrs. Fiske, is treated as essentially imitative. This
                    idealization of the period 1825-1875 may be justified (although it would be easy to demonstrate that
                    the great actors of that time were also derivative); but it has seemingly blinded Wilson to the
                    considerable merits of later actors, even to the point of ignoring those who appeared after 1920.
            While one kind of clarity is attained by grouping actors into stylistic categories, chronology
                    suffers badly as a result. Given the author's basic concern with style, the organization is
                    probably justified; but a reader without some prior knowledge of American theatre history may well
                    become confused by the rapid shifts in time and the inverted time sequence.
            As might be expected in a work of its scope, this history is based primarily upon secondary sources,
                    the author adding little to what was already known. His contributions lie in synthesizing a large
                    body of material and in clarifying the relationships among the major nineteenth century actors.
                    These are no small accomplishments.
            
                    Indiana University
                
            O. G. Brockett
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               The White Hat: Henry Frederick Schricker, A Political Biography. By Charles Francis
                    Fleming. ([
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Author], 1966. Pp. xii, 145. Paperbound.) Fleming has written an interesting and
                    eulogistic life of Henry F. Schricker, the only Hoosier governor ever to serve two, full, four-year
                    terms. The author reviews Schricker's youth, considers his German background, and traces
                    his political career step by step. Fleming's study immediately resulted from his
                    master's thesis, but it also reflects the long time personal and political association
                    between author and subject. The book frequently illustrates Schricker's winning political
                    personality, never exceeded by any other Indiana governor. Fleming's interpretations at
                    various points will doubtless be disputed by many, and his lack of citations to sources greatly
                    complicates the problem of evaluating his findings.
            
               Statistics of Indiana Libraries, 1965. Prepared by the Indiana State Library, for
                    the Year Book of the State of Indiana. (Pp. 46. Notes, maps, tables. Pamphlet.)
                    The data concerning Indiana libraries, both public and private, for 1965 are quite informative as
                    regards their status and circumstances. Although most of the essential information requires
                    considerable grubbing, the map (p. 4) showing Indiana areas lacking "direct library service
                    supported by local tax" tells a significant but depressing story in minimum space.
            
               The Indiana Social Studies Quarterly. Official organ of the Indiana Council for the
                    Social Studies. Vol. XIX, No. 2. (
                        Muncie
                    , Ind.: Ball State University, Autumn, 1966. Pp. 87.) This issue of The
                        Indiana Social Studies Quarterly is almost entirely devoted to a review and analysis of
                    varying interpretations of the American Revolution. It will be helpful to teachers of American
                    history interested in and willing to explore the varied and important questions which scholars have
                    raised about the causes, nature, and impact of the Revolution. Most of the articles included, and
                    two or three of them in particular, are especially useful concerning the status of the Middle West
                    during the British era.
            
               Outdoor Indiana. Edited by Byron L. Troyer. Vol. XXXII, No. 4. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Department of Natural Resources, February, 1967. Pp. 39. Magazine,
                    $3.00 per year.) Readers of the Indiana Magazine of History who have
                    not subscribed to Outdoor Indiana, published by the Indiana Department of Natural
                    Resources, are missing a worthwhile publication. Moreover, they are also failing to lend their
                    support to historical and related programs included within this department. Outdoor
                        Indiana's popular articles, its illustrations (especially those in color), and its
                    general and varied emphasis on the Hoosier scene, past and present, are worthwhile to students and
                    adults alike.
         
      
   
