
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 38, Issue 4, pages 337-434. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:38+issue:4+year:1942&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Logan Esarey, Hoosier
            R. CARLYLE BULEY
            
            One September afternoon in 1906, the study hall of 
                        Vincennes
                     High School, usually presided over by a dignified elderly lady of formidable mien, was
                    being patrolled aimlessly by a quiet-looking, medium-sized man. The first impression upon one
                    thirteen-year-old student was that of a quizzical being with a sunken nose and bright shining dark
                    eyes. As the teacher drifted idly up the aisle and approached the school's popular fat boy
                    from the rear, those "in the know" began to sense excitement. This lad, who found
                    it difficult to exist from one meal to the next without supplementary rations, was, as usual,
                    feeding from his coat pocket. Suddenly he looked up into the face of the law—caught
                    red-handed. All was quiet. The score or more of students nearby held their breath and anticipated
                    the worst. We knew what the woman teacher would do under the circumstances; we could only imagine
                    what a man teacher would do. Then we heard a low question: "Are you eating
                    something?" Finally came the reply, "Candy." "Don't
                    they pass things around at your house?" It took a minute for the idea to penetrate. When a
                    handful of jelly beans was produced, the teacher, with a twinkle in his eye, said, "Thank
                    you," and walked on about his business eating them.1 Within a few
                    minutes after that study period was over the news of the event had penetrated to the ends of the
                    building. An hour or so later this same man reappeared in charge of our ancient history class. A
                    short way down the roll he paused at the same Barney and said, "I used to have a horse
                    named Barney. He wasn't worth a durn." A revolution and a revelation had taken
                    place before 
                  
                     1 Mr. Louis W. Bonsib, prominent Fort 
                                Wayne
                             businessman and artist, speaks of the candy as "made sweeter, perhaps,
                            by a sense of guilt." Otherwise the evidence is in substantial agreement.
               
                     our eyes. It was not to end for three years, in our minds not
                    ever.
            Shortly the ancient history classes were finding Greek and Roman mythology as interesting as G. A.
                    Henty or Horatio Alger, nor was it longer necessary to hide a good book behind the big geography,
                    which in its day covered a multitude of sins. One could read Herodotus, shocking stories and all,
                    boldly, right in the study hall, and claim that one was studying his history lesson. Occasionally
                    this new teacher would take over a Latin class. Then our well worn ablatives and gerunds received
                    but passing notice, and we reveled in Dr. Harold W. Johnson's Private Life of
                        the Romans or constructed a critique of Caesar's Gallic Wars. It
                    had never occurred to us before, of course, that even Julius Caesar might have made a mistake.
                    Cicero we leap-frogged, the class translating a few lines, the teacher reading several pages. After
                    all, we were in a hurry to get at Sallust's Cataline. Certainly one
                    by-product of that year's work was an expanded circulation for Collier's, which was offering The World's Greatest
                    Orations as a bounty. That, in turn, involved forays from Pericles to Chief Logan and William
                    Jennings Bryan. How dead was Latin when we reached Vergil, only to find, under another teacher, that
                    it was a business of counting meters and weighing syllables.
            We found in the interim that this teacher would now and then teach a German class and that an
                    entirely different mythology and lore would be discussed there. Also, that he could squat on his
                    heels and peg a ball faster and flatter to second base than anybody else in school. Though he made
                    little pretense of being an expert in football, the boys could always count on his being present at
                    practice. When track season began he helped measure and time and in class brought up the Olympic
                    games and Greek sports. He even took up a collection and took the school's outstanding
                    runner to the state meet—an unheard-of event. Frequently he recommended poor but able
                    students to Mr. Jake Gimble and other men of means who bet on promising boys' keeping their
                    promises after college. In assemblies we heard fascinating talks on the early history of 
                        Vincennes
                    . We learned that the voyageurs and coureurs de bois
                    performed feats as impossible as did the knights of old and that the strip-field system of the
                    medieval manor had been practiced right in our town— 
                    we even made trips on Saturdays and Sundays to see if we could find the old balk-lines. Right in the
                    midst of one of these discourses, the speaker would point to a Badollette, a Brouilette, or a Polk
                    and say, "That might have been your great-great-grandfather." Sometimes when James
                    Speed Rogers (later Professor of Biology at the University of 
                        Florida
                    ), who walked five miles to school when the old mare was needed elsewhere, would slip
                    apologetically into his seat, the speaker would stop and say, "James, you have missed a
                    mighty good talk."
            His office as principal, hitherto visited only upon invitation, became a loafing place during the
                    lunch hour and before school. Many a tall tale originated there. Discipline, too, could be
                    dispensed. Minor derelictions received penalties in proportion; for the few serious ones, the
                    penalty was never questioned. The offender knew that the overwhelming power of opinion against him
                    would permit no appeal. For the teachers he served as wailing wall and father confessor, and stood
                    as a bulwark between them and the political powers that were. The dedication of the 1909 White and Gold—"To our beloved principal, Mr. Logan
                    Esarey—our sincere appreciation of his untiring efforts to make our school life pleasant,
                    and to elevate the standard of our Alma Mater"—carried more import than the usual
                    yearbook formula. When, at commencement in McJimsey's Opera House, the principal gave away
                    the graduating class with the parting words, "We are glad that they can go; we are sorry
                    that they must go," there were those of us who had a premonition that the words might also
                    apply to the speaker.
            We were right, for that summer he left us. The next year was in many respects an anti-climax. We did
                    not know that a number of us would again have the good fortune to work with this teacher.
            * * * * * *
                    * * *
            Despite the fact that his mother said she "found him under a cliff," Logan Esarey
                    was born in a small frame house about three-quarters of a mile up the hill from Branchville, 
                        Perry County
                    , Indiana, January 3, 1873. Since he was the sixth child (of nine), the mother often had
                    to park the infant on the kitchen floor and go about her work. On such occasions the youngster would
                    sit, with lugubrious countenance backed by ample lung power, and cry; so his care was  often delegated to the older children. Care of a two-year-old was not
                    permitted too seriously to interfere with the usual activities. At the swimming hole one would push
                    him in at the narrow end and another pull him out some six feet away at the other side. (A few years
                    later the same boys were swimming the 
                        Ohio
                    , commonly called a mile wide, and with a very fair current.)
            At four young Logan started to school at Branchville, which, besides the school, consisted of a
                    general store and a cluster of a dozen or so houses. Keeping two lessons and two classes ahead of
                    his primary group still left a certain amount of time for pinching and hair pulling. Before long the
                    youngster had the reputation of being "the meanest kid in school." Since
                    intelligence tests, standardized achievement tests, and other means of painless avoidance of
                    learning had not yet been invented, the scholars learned to add, multiply, and do cube root via
                    Ray's arithmetic,—to spell, to analyze the sentence, to know some facts of
                    physiology, geography, and history, and to write a good hand. They were confronted with facts, not
                    "proper attitudes"; the burden of proof was upon them. They could not fill in the blank
                    spaces with answers already provided. The quantity of knowledge dispensed was not great, but its
                    quality was good. In addition there were the books at home or those borrowed from neighbors. Just as
                    important was the education derived from woods and fields and the tales told around the fireside and
                    in the store or blacksmith's or cooper's shop: tales of the Indian wars, the
                    Revolution, the Mexican and Civil wars; of hunters and keel boatmen, hound dogs and 
                        New Orleans
                    .
            The Esareys had come to America, probably from 
                        Wales
                    , some time before the middle of the 18th century. Great-greatgrandfather John Esarey
                    ("John the Hunter," 1744–1828) had served with George Rogers Clark and received
                    a sizeable land grant on a branch of Salt River in the 
                        Kentucky
                     country. Difficulties with speculators over land titles crowded the pioneer and his
                    family of grown sons and daughters, some married, out of the Elizabethtown neighborhood. They
                    crossed the 
                        Ohio
                     about 1806 and settled in a little valley at the head of Oil Creek, in the present 
                        Perry County
                    , Indiana. In this neighborhood in turn lived Jonathan Davis Esarey
                    (1783–1858), Jesse Clark Esarey (1817–1869), and John Clark Esarey
                    (1841–1924), father of Logan Esarey. Game  was
                    plentiful along Deer, Poison, Anderson, and Oil creeks; and the great overhanging cliffs interested
                    not only the original settlers, but also later generations of exploring children. Instead of Startling Comics and radio thrillers, there was a rich heritage of
                    hunters' and fighters' tales, often somewhat confused as to principals, but
                    satisfying, nevertheless. There was still plenty of woods left in the 1870's and the
                    children did not have to draw too heavily on their imaginations when they re-enacted these tales.
            Some of the stories might seem fairly pointless to the case-hardened young sophisticates of today;
                    still, if they were told by an expert, one can not be too sure. There was, for instance, the story
                    of the bewitching of Blackstock, the rifle of old John the Hunter. The piece, fired at forty paces,
                    simply refused to kill a standing deer, though the powder exploded and the bullet left the barrel.
                    In disgust the hunter took his cherished piece home and set it in the corner of the cabin, just like
                    any old rifle gun, and said n'ary a word to his wife. Those pioneer wives understood guns
                    and maybe men, too; so after her husband was asleep, she melted down a precious silver coin into a
                    bullet, loaded Blackstock and put it back on the rack. The next day old Blackstock felled the deer
                    the very first time, as she had "oughter done" in the first place.
            On another occasion the hunters kept running into a thing which just sat on stumps and looked at
                    them. It looked like a gorilla, yet it was too big and didn't act like a gorilla. It had a
                    terrible look in its eyes, and was kind of foggy around the edges. It wouldn't kill and it
                    wouldn't scare. Finally, after the hunters quit wasting shot on it, it just gradually eased
                    off into the woods and was never seen again. Perhaps in this case hunter instead of gun was somewhat
                    "pixilated."
            Then there was the story told by Newton Braxton Pollard, cooper and raconteur
                    extraordinary, of the bullfrogs of Reily hole. That these frogs could drag a fence-rail down to the
                    creek and paddle across on one was common knowledge. But one night the hunting houn' dogs
                    hit the trail of something mysterious. You could tell by their voices that it wasn't a coon
                    trail, neither a wildcat, a fox, nor yet a bear. Certainly not a pole cat. They didn't seem
                    to be trying to catch it, but every time they got to where it had hit the ground  last they just let out a kind of disgusted "Boo!"
                    Finally it treed, and the dogs came back wagging their tails plumb crazylike. When the hunters
                    approached the tree, they could see it by the light of the rising moon—hunched up about
                    like a big Dominicker rooster. Suddenly it jumped clean over the heads of hounds and hunters, hit
                    the ground twice or so, let out a great "Garrumph," and dived into Reily hole a
                    quarter of a mile away.
            Such a story, told in the upland south dialect in a deep, slow, musical voice, and dragged out for
                    the better part of an hour in the telling—there were many of them for the youngsters to
                    hear and pretend to believe.
            John Clark Esarey, after marrying Barbara Ewing, had served about a year in the Union army. Besides
                    their own numerous flock, usually several other children, orphans or otherwise, were housed and fed.
                    All were supposed to do some work, but one surmises that the discipline was not too rigorous, for
                    many a time the father returned from town to find the horses standing fresh behind the plow and the
                    boys all gone fishing. In addition to the farm chores known to boys of today, they learned to use
                    the ax and broadax, the frow and drawing knife, crosscut saw, bucksaw, maul and wedge and cradle.
                    They knew dozens of trees, what the wood was good for, and when to cut them. They could trap and
                    prepare pelts, dress or tan hides, help butcher, and make soft soap and maple syrup. The girls, in
                    addition to the woman's work of milking, churning, and caring for the kitchen garden,
                    helped dry and preserve fruits, knit, spin, and tend the chickens and such.
            For a few years the family lived in an old two-story double-unit cabin of hewn logs and clapboards,
                    about one mile below Branchville; but since it was drafty and cold and the mother was in delicate
                    health, a new house was built farther up the hill. The boys still played in the old house,
                    ostensibly a sort of cooper shop; but actually—since the Esareys were
                    Methodists—they spent many hours there at seven-up, euchre, and pinochle. At least one of
                    them developed card sense which furnished the foundation later of a very sound game of bridge. About
                    the age of ten, young Logan also made his debut on the dancing floor. Despite the efforts of the
                    local midwife to prevent the young boy from going to hell in that particular fashion by dragging him
                    from the floor, he was  able, due to his mother's
                    intervention, to continue. In time he cavorted agilely and cut many a sharp French Four or flung a
                    high and fancy double and twisted Lord Massey, to the delight of those whose scruples did not forbid
                    dancing.
            
                    They danced all night 'til broad day light
                    And went home with the gals in the morning.
                
            At the age of sixteen, having finished common school, Logan got a school at German Ridge. Here for
                    three years, 1889–92, he walked three miles, built the fires, swept the floors, and
                    dispensed knowledge for —40 a month. While he was teaching, his small library was
                    enhanced by books sent home by an older brother who had gone to 
                        Danville
                     Normal. Summers, the baseball team, which was almost a family affair, was an obsessing
                    activity, and bitter local wars were fought.
            In the early autumn of 1892, Logan entered 
                        Danville
                    , where he finished the teachers' and business course in a year. Another year
                    of teaching, then back for the law and scientific course, 1894–1895. At home for a short
                    time in the summer, he borrowed some money on life insurance, and returned for the classic course,
                    which he finished in the summer of 1896. Like most schools of its kind in the period, 
                        Danville
                     was a poor man's school; it accepted students after completion of common
                    school and tried to offer any course which anyone might want, from common branches up to
                    trigonometry, Greek, and philosophy. From the standpoint of advanced training, degrees, and
                    independent investigation, the faculty would hardly compare with that of the modern college; yet it
                    was strong where the latter is often weak. There was a high proportion of sound and inspiring
                    teachers. Among those always remembered by the young student were Jonathan Rigdon (later president
                    of 
                        Winona
                     Normal School and of 
                        Danville
                    ) in grammar, A. J. Kinnaman in mathematics, G. L. Spillman in Latin and Greek, and
                    particularly J. A. Joseph in history—a teacher who was no slave to a text book, but who,
                    "widely read," ranged over the field.
            Much time, but not all, was spent in serious study. At the time of his first arrival Esarey had met
                    on the train one Lewis Turman, and the boys shared a room heated with a wood stove, about a block
                    from the college.2 Soon they were 
                  
                     2 Ironically, Turman later as professor of education at 
                                Stanford
                             University had much to do with forging "those terrible weapons, the
                            so-called intelligence tests," which the historian viewed with such
                        distrust.
               
                    
                    
                  DANVILLE DAYS
               
                    
                  
                            Commencement, 1895
                        
                  
                            Easter Sunday, 1895, J. R. Brown, James Emmons, Purley Emmons, Luten Cook,
                                Logan Esarey (standing), Harvey Thomas, Edward Harrold, Milt. Hobbs.
                        
               
                     known as two of the most inveterate pranksters in school. Far
                    more mature in scholarship than most college boys of today, they would be regarded in some respects
                    as strangely naive. On one occasion it developed in discussion that Turman had never seen a drunk
                    man. So his roommate purchased two bottles of beer, picked up some sandwitches and one other boy,
                    and the three took to the woods. There after a few sips Esarey's head began to loll and his
                    eyes to roll. It was a good act and apparently convincing.
            At the college bookstore clerked quiet and attractive Laura (Pearson) Mills, whose family lived in 
                        Danville
                    .3 Though from a solid 
                        Quaker
                     family which tolerated no nonsense, Miss Pearson, after having taught two schools,
                    declared her independence of spirit by cutting bangs and going to college. That the Esarey-Mills
                    friendship progressed apace is evidenced by the fact that during Christmas vacation, 1895, the one
                    opportunity of the year for visiting home, the young man spent eleven consecutive evenings at the
                    Pearsons' playing dominoes.
            Nine boys and four girls finished the classic course in the summer of 1896. Esarey got a job at 
                        Cannelton
                    ; but in September he went down with thirteen weeks of typhoid fever, so did not get to
                    help save the country from free silver and repudiation. He began his school in January, 1897, and
                    was married in May. In June the county commissioners appointed him county superintendent. The salary
                    was now —100 per month, and by living at home, he was able to pay off the debt, about
                    half college and half typhoid, in little over a year. Thereupon his father took him to Tobinsport to
                    buy seventeen acres of land—something to save for. The parents lived with their son at
                    Tobinsport until 1899, when Logan's family moved to 
                        Cannelton
                    .
            After six years of the county superintendency, it was time to move on. 
                        Harvard
                     and law seemed indicated, especially since the older brother had for two years been
                    studying at 
                        Cambridge
                    . But when it appeared that the wife and four children4 would have
                    to remain at home for two or more 
                  
                     3 Nee Laura Pearson, whose husband J. D. Mills was killed in an
                            explosion shortly after their marriage in 1891.
                  
                     4 They are Mary (1898-), now practicing law in West Palm Beach, 
                                Florida
                            ; Myra (Mrs. Herbert Evans, 1899-), Lake Worth, 
                                Florida
                            ; Ralph (1901-), assistant professor of Geology at Indiana
               
                     years, a compromise was reached and the family moved to 
                        Bloomington
                     in the autumn of 1903.
            The next two years were spent in completing the work on the A.B. degree in history at Indiana
                    University. Outstanding in the department at that time were James Albert Woodburn, of pioneer 
                        Bloomington
                     family; Amos Shartle Hershey in ancient and modern European history, European
                    government, and international law; and Samuel Bannister Harding in European and English history.
                    Probably no other western history department had at that time three peers of these men as combined
                    scholars and teachers. Woodburn, Ph.D., from Johns Hopkins' famous Adams
                    seminar—genial, anecdotal, and precise—hewed closely to politics and the
                    principles of the fathers. Hershey, of 
                        Harvard
                     and Heidelberg training—unmethodical, at times absent-minded, always
                    brilliant in the field of international relations—opened the eyes of even undergraduates
                    to the scholarship and literature of other lands. Dr. Harding, from 
                        Indianapolis
                     to Indiana University by way of 
                        Harvard
                    , was a sort of Theodore Roosevelt without the bluster and
                    scatter-mindedness—forceful, exacting, a dynamo of energy and an encyclopedia of
                    knowledge. No serious student ever left one of his classes without resolving to storm the bulwarks
                    of historical knowledge and master it all before he came back again.
            Esarey wrote a senior thesis on "The Abolitionists and the Freedom of the Mails,"
                    won the William Jennings Bryan Prize in discussion, and graduated in 1905. At the time of
                    graduation, in addition to a major in history, he had on the record what would now constitute majors
                    in government, English, and possibly language (Latin and German) as well. In his personal library
                    were not only most of the standard histories of the 
                        United States
                    , such as McMaster, Rhodes, and the new first volumes of Channing, but also
                    well-underlined and annotated copies of Stubbs' Constitutional History of 
                            England
                        , Langlois and Seignobos' Introduction to the Study of
                        History, and many works in literature and philosophy. The owner's marginal
                    comments in these books are interesting evidence of his maturing scholarship.5
            
            
                University and State Geologist; Rosalie (1903-), wife of Dr. Ray Borland, 
                            Bloomington
                        . The fifth child, Robin (chemist with Hercules Powder Company, Hattiesburg, 
                            Mississippi
                        ), was born in 1906.
               
                  5 These were contemporary notes and were in the books when first seen by
                        the writer about 1907.
            
            
            After a year as principal of the high school at 
                        Tell City
                     (salary —60, raised later to —80), the Esareys moved to 
                        Vincennes
                     in the autumn of 1906, where they "camped out" in a rambling old
                    house until furniture and pay day arrived. Three years were spent at 
                        Vincennes
                    , one as teacher of history and two as principal and teacher. Graduate work at the
                    university, begun in the spring term of 1905, was continued during the summer terms. Under the
                    direction of Woodburn and Harding, the student's research centered in Indiana history, and
                    the master's thesis, State Banking in Indiana, 1814–1873,
               6 remains the most exhaustive treatment of the subject to date. The
                    master's degree in history was granted in June, 1909.
            When opportunity presented to teach at 
                        Winona
                     Normal under his old 
                        Danville
                     teacher, President Rigdon, Esarey accepted. The following year he became dean of the
                    college. The routine of teaching and study was varied with many hours at croquet, horseshoes,
                    fishing, listening to chautauqua speeches, and holding forth with old cronies.
            In September, 1911, having received an appointment as research fellow in history at Indiana
                    University, Esarey again moved to 
                        Bloomington
                    . At the house on Third and Dunn Streets (later at Smith and Henderson), things were
                    usually in a state of salutary confusion. Half a dozen boy roomers, five children, visiting children
                    and dogs, later a family orchestra of fiddle, saxophone, cornet, drums, and piano, plus a guest
                    artist or two, a barrel of apples at the foot of the stairs surrounded by a thousand-volume
                    library—and in the midst of it all the student, now working on his doctor's
                    dissertation and his History as well, would sit down and write a part of a
                        chapter.7 Now and then the gang sat down to one of Mrs. Esarey's
                    famous oyster stews.
            On completion of the study on Internal Improvements in Early Indiana
               8 and formal oral examination on the chosen 
                  
                     6
                            Indiana University Studies, I, No. 15, published in 1912.
                  
                     7 Among the fun-loving roomers of this period were Victor Beamer,
                            president of the class of 1914 and later manager of the Equitable Life Assurance Company in 
                                Florida
                            , and one Richard Allen Howes, 
                                London
                             cockney via 
                                Australia
                            , who claimed that he was born in a ship's rigging and frequently acted
                            the part. The writer for years marveled at the landlord's tolerance of relatively
                            harmless but often noisy pranks—until tales of similar activities of
                            Esarey's days at 
                                Danville
                             came to light.
                  
                     8 Indiana Historical Society Publications, V, No. 2
                            (1912).
               
                     fields of history and government, the degree of Doctor of
                    Philosophy was received in June, 1913, and Dr. Esarey was made instructor in history and secretary
                    of the newly-created Indiana Historical Survey. Courses were established in Indiana history and in
                    the development of the American Middle West, the latter being among the first courses of its type in
                    any university. The historian now began the threefold work of teaching, collecting, and writing and
                    editing which was to continue for almost thirty years.
            Although Middle West historians a century earlier had realized the vital importance of the history of
                    the region and of the study of history from the base of the pyramid up, rather than from the apex
                    down, and though Frederick Jackson Turner had won national renown by developing the latter idea in
                    the 1890's, relatively little had been done during the century. True, the historical
                    societies—notably those of 
                        Ohio
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    , and 
                        Wisconsin
                    —had been collecting and publishing volumes of reminiscences, articles by
                    antiquarians, and documents; editors such as Reuben G. Thwaites were adding scores of volumes of
                    documents and travels; and monographs were beginning to come from the seminars of Turner at 
                        Wisconsin
                     (later 
                        Harvard
                    ) and Alvord at 
                        Illinois
                    . Yet the fact remains that in 1913 there were hardly a half dozen important scholarly
                    works, other than monographs, on the history of the region. Not a state in the Middle West possessed
                    a general, balanced history of itself. There were no scholarly biographies of George Rogers Clark,
                    William Henry Harrison, Abraham Lincoln, Rutherford B. Hayes, James A. Garfield, Benjamin Harrison,
                    William Tecumseh Sherman, Ulysses S. Grant, Cyrus Hall McCormick, and a dozen others. Of the two
                    histories which bore the name of the region, one (Theodore Roosevelt's Winning
                        of the West) failed to touch the social, economic, cultural, or institutional history of
                    the region, while the other (Burke A. Hindsdale's, The Old Northwest)
                    ended with the organization of the territory in 1787. There were no real histories of agriculture,
                    of transportation, of journalism, of religion, of education, of science, or of folklore. The history
                    of the Middle West was, if not a virgin field, at least an inviting one.
            And of all the states, possibly excepting 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana had done the least. The 
                        Wisconsin
                     Historical Society had been doubly fortunate, or foresighted, for it had had a long
                    line  of working officers—Lyman Copeland Draper,
                    Reuben Gold Thwaites, Milo M. Quaife, and Miss Louise P. Kellogg—distinguished writers
                    and editors all, and the finest library of materials on the West in the country. The society by 1913
                    had published twenty volumes of Historical Collections (not to mention
                    Thwaites's seventy-three volumes of Jesuit Relations and twenty-eight
                    volumes of Early Western Travels, published separately) and many volumes of Proceedings, full of articles by scholars. Though 
                        Michigan
                     was doing little, it had, after all, forty volumes of Pioneer and
                        Historical Society Publications (reminiscences, articles, and documents). 
                        Ohio
                     had twenty-two volumes of Archaeological and Historical Society
                        Publications and nine volumes of the Historical and Philosophic Society
                        Publications. The 
                        Illinois
                     Historical Society also had been relatively moribund, though it had published nineteen
                    volumes, including Transactions and five volumes of the Journal.
                    But with the advent of Clarence W. Alvord at the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , 
                        Illinois
                     history began to develop lustily. The 
                        Illinois
                     Historical Survey was established, a state appropriation was allotted, and soon Alvord,
                    his associates, and graduate students (Solon J. Buck, Theodore Calvin Pease, Arthur C. Cole,
                    Clarence E. Carter, and others) were presenting volumes of collections, special works, and
                    monographs. By 1913 there were nine volumes of the 
                  
                            Illinois
                         Historical Collections. As for Indiana there were four volumes of Publications, mostly papers and short articles, no documentary collections, and eight
                    volumes of the Indiana Magazine of History, then practically expiring.
            The Indiana Historical Survey was modelled after that of 
                        Illinois
                    . The idea was to undertake the collecting and publishing of documents, the assembling
                    of materials, and the writing and dissemination of the history of the state. To that end, graduate
                    theses in 
                        United States
                     history were to be assigned largely in the field of state history.
            Dr. Esarey's problem was not an easy one. Without adequate collections of manuscripts,
                    documents, newspaper files, and all the other material, it was impossible to publish collections,
                    almost impossible to write. Without publication it was hard to arouse interest and get materials.
                    Without interest it was impossible to get money. It was necessary to break out of the circle, to
                    attack on all fronts at once. Since the regular appropriations for the survey usually amounted to
                         about —500—enough for a part-time
                    typist and incidentals—obviously, valuable materials could not be purchased. It would
                    have to be beg and borrow, not buy. The prospectus or Appeal for Funds stated the case and plans. It
                    announced a series of studies, collections of territorial papers, messages, and letters of the
                    governors, and other publications, "if the necessary funds are forthcoming." They
                    never were.
            While Ernest V. Shockley was working on his Atlas of Indiana History and compiling the political
                    platforms, Esarey began his Newspaper History and Directory of Indiana.9 When
                    the Indiana Magazine of History, begun by George Cottman and others in 1905, was
                    about to expire on the financial rocks, Indiana University took it over in 1913 and Esarey was made
                    editor. A small but enthusiastic seminar in Indiana history was now at work, and by adding their
                    studies to the usual contributed articles the Magazine was soon noted as the best
                    in the Old Northwest.10 Said a contributor to the 
                  
                            Mississippi
                         Valley Historical Review in June, 1914: "The best of these, from the
                    standpoint of scientific history, is The Indiana Magazine of History…
                    edited by Dr. Logan Esarey."11 And again a year later: "The Indiana Magazine
                    
                  
                     9 This unpublished manuscript—now some 2,000 typed pages of
                            history and sketches of over 3,000 newspapers of the state from 1804 to 1940—is
                            to the writer's knowledge the only work of its kind for any state.
                  
                     10 Among the graduate student monographs published in whole or in part
                            were: Nina K. Reid, "Sketches of Early Indiana Senators," in Indiana Magazine of History, IX (1913), 1–13, 92–95,
                            167–86, 247–68; William F. Vogel, "Home Life in Early
                            Indiana," ibid., X (1914), 133–61, 284–320;
                            Dale Beeler, "The Election of 1852 in Indiana," ibid.,
                            XI (1915), 301–23, XII (1916), 34–52; Harold Littel,
                            "Development of the City School System of
                            Indiana—1851–1880," ibid., XII (1916),
                            193–213, 299–325; Charles Zimmerman, "The Origin and Rise of
                            the Republican Party in Indiana from 1854 to 1860," ibid., XIII
                            (1917), 211–69, 349–412; Ernest D. Stewart. "Populist Party
                            in Indiana,"ibid., XIV (1918), 332–67, XV (1919),
                            53–74; R. C. Buley, "Indiana in the Mexican War," ibid., XV (1919), 260–326, XVI (1920), 46–68; Charles E.
                            Camp, "Temperance Movements and Legislation in Indiana," ibid., XVI (1920), 3–37, 112–51; Carl Painter,
                            "Progressive Party in Indiana," ibid., XVI (1920),
                            173–283; Charles H. Money, "Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 in
                            Indiana," ibid., XVII (1921), 159–98,
                            257–97; Carl F. Brand, "History of the Know Nothing Party in
                            Indiana," ibid., XVIII (1922), 47–81,
                            177–206, 266–306; Adam A. Leonard, "Personal Politics in
                            Indiana, 1816–1840," ibid., XIX (1923),
                            1–56, 132–68, 241–81; Glen A. Blackburn,
                            "Interurban Railroads of Indiana," ibid., XX (1924),
                            221–79, 400–64; and Howard R. Burnett, "The Last Pioneer
                            Governor of Indiana—'Blue Jeans' Williams," ibid., XXII (1926), 101–30.
                  
                     11 Solon J. Buck, "Historical Activities in the Old
                            Northwest… 1913–1914," in 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Valley Historical Review, I (Cedar Rapids, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1914-), 80.
               
                    
                    of History continues to hold the premier place among the historical periodicals of
                    the Old Northwest in editorial workmanship and qualities of paper."12
            
            Not the least among the reasons for this high rank were the articles and critical reviews by the
                    editor. Some of his best writing is to be found in such articles as "The Pioneer
                    Aristocracy," "The Approach to History," "The Literary Spirit
                    among Early 
                        Ohio
                     Valley Settlers," and "The Myth of the Poor White Trash."13
            
            The Magazine ("our baby," as he used to call it) was quite a chore, but a
                    labor of love. The editor "rustled" circulation and exchanges, kept its accounts,
                    read dozens of contributions quarterly, helped rewrite those accepted, compiled the mailing list,
                    read the proofs, at times even addressed wrappers and tied up the bundles for the mail. Help was
                    used when available—the Esarey family, graduate students, a part-time typist, sometimes
                    an assistant from the department. Proof was read anywhere—on the front porch, under a
                    beech tree in the woods, in army barracks in 1918.14 By arrangement with the
                    Indiana Historical Society, the members received the Magazine for half the regular
                    subscription price. Although hundreds of dollars' worth of historical magazines and
                    publications of other states, as well as scores of Indiana newspapers, came to the university
                    annually in exchanges, no regular budgetary provision was made for maintaining the publication. It
                    was always a matter of wrestling with the deficits and overdue bills by requests for special
                    appropriations. Besides its historical and exchange value to the university, the Magazine had another value of importance. Possibility of publication of studies was a fine
                    stimulus to graduate students working in the field; it served as a practical laboratory in editing,
                    preparing for publication, 
                  
                     12 Solon J. Buck, "Historical Activities in the Old
                            Northwest, 1914–1915," ibid., II
                            (1915–1916), 92.
                  
                     13 Logan Esarey, "The Pioneer Aristocracy," in Indiana Magazine of History, XIII (1917), 270–87; idem, "The Approach to History," ibid., XVII
                            (1921), 150–58; idem, "The Literary Spirit among Early 
                                Ohio
                             Valley Settlers," in 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Valley Historical Review, V (1918–1919), 143–57;
                            and idem, "The Myth of the Poor White Trash," 
                                Ohio
                             Valley Historical Association Proceedings and Papers for the Year
                                1919 (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1925), 82–91.
                  
                     14 Dr. S. W. Geiser, head of the Department of Biology, Southern
                            Methodist University, recalled in 1942 one of the articles on which he as "buddy of
                            the day," helped read galley proofs at Camp Sheridan, 
                                Illinois
                            , in 1918.
               
                     and writing of book reviews. For "making
                    print," the student often got the privilege of reading proof of the whole number with the
                    editor.
            While the Magazine was getting under way, Dr. Esarey issued his small Guide to the Study of Indiana History,5 edited with Leander J. Monks
                    and Dr. Ernest V. Shockley the three volumes on Courts and Lawyers of Indiana,16 wrote his articles for the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sundoy Star, and finished the first volume of his History of
                    Indiana.
            The articles in the Star ran more or less regularly for several years and covered
                    every phase of Indiana history. Some were on popular subjects, others almost chronicles; all were
                    sound. Sunday mornings, having read the papers, comics included, the historian would grab a bundle
                    of notes and a long cigar, light almost anywhere, and write his piece for the next week. These
                    articles helped to keep alive interest in the state's history—and they
                    "kept the kids in shoes."
            Although Indiana, the second state of the Northwest Territory, was nearing its hundredth birthday,
                    the state had no scholarly, balanced history of itself. What histories it had were either episodical
                    and popular or else the work of the older literary avocational historians. Best known of the latter
                    type were the works of John Dillon (History of Indiana, published in 1859) and
                    Jacob Piatt Dunn (Indiana, A Redemption from Slavery, which appeared in 1888). The
                    former practically ended with the War of 1812, and the latter with the admission of the state.
                    Dunn's work was built around an indefensible thesis. Neither work covered the more
                    important periods or topics in the history of Indiana.
            Drawing heavily upon his general knowledge and such documents and newspaper files as were available,
                    Dr. Esarey rushed to completion the first volume of his History of Indiana (From its
                        Exploration to 1850).17 The immediate urge was the impending
                    celebration of the state's centennial anniversary. The second volume, From
                        1850 to the Present, was published in 1918.18 This 1200 page work is
                    not very well organized, 
                  
                     15 Indiana University Extension Division Bulletin
                            (1915).
                  
                     16 Federal Publishing Company, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916. This was an historical-biographical work of the better-class
                            subscription type.
                  
                     17 This was published by W. K. Steward Company, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1915, in the library edition. A students' edition was reprinted by
                            the Hoosier Press of Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , 1916 and 1924.
                  
                     18 This was published by the B. F. Bowen Company of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and later reprinted by the Hoosier Press of Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , and by Indiana University Bookstore.
               
                     at times is not very well written, and contains some errors;
                    but it is a balanced and scholarly history, based upon the sources. All phases of the life of the
                    state are treated—political, military, social, economic, and cultural. There are chapters
                    on constitutions, religion, public lands, banking, and home life. The second volume, although fuller
                    of source references, ran into the practically insolvable problem of presentation which arose from
                    the lack of a central thread to tie to in the later period. The author was well aware of this. He
                    also neglected the opportunity of including an evaluated bibliography of materials for the study of
                    the history of the state; and he, better than any other, was qualified to do this. There were some
                    statements and viewpoints presented which were reversed or considerably modified in the
                    author's mind in later years. At the time of writing he had been through all the important
                    published documents and had laboriously run, page by page, the files of the Western
                        Sun, Indiana Journal, 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, and the 
                        Madison
                    , Corydon, and other early papers; but later years took him not only into many other
                    newspapers but into diaries, journals, letters, and other sources. Most of these he himself had
                    collected. Dr. Esarey spoke often of completely rewriting the work, but never got around to it. With
                    all its defects it is still the best history of the state and the best one-man history of any of the
                    states of the Old Northwest. All who have written since have drawn heavily from it.
            In 1916 came the state's centennial celebration. The main event was a pageant. William
                    Chauncy Langdon, expert producer of pageants, was imported from the East to provide the scenario;
                    and many hours were spent in consultation with the Indiana historian. Main performances were staged
                    in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Corydon, and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . For three days illustrative scenes from the state's history, from French
                    explorers to the day of the automobile, were staged by a large troop of townspeople, faculty, and
                    students. Indians, scouts, pioneer farmers, circuit riders, and politicians got all mixed up with
                    the nymphs, dryads, butterflies, and zephyrs. The unscrambling process was not completed even hours
                    after the last scene. It was quite a show. Esarey was a scout or hunter, for which part he needed
                    little make-up besides coon-skin cap, leggings, rifle gun, and pouch. He had lots of fun approaching
                    the cabin in the clearing and yelling "Hallo-o the 
                    house!" according to the best frontier etiquette. For months afterward the greeting
                    resounded over the campus.
            By 1918 the university had been turned over to the S.A.T.C. and the war effort.
            
                    I very well remember the heyday of 1918 when the patriots, along with the stay-at-home rangers
                        flooded the campus and almost wrecked the University… and how we broke up the
                        football field and cut down our apple orchard east of the big gymnasium and sowed the whole
                        blooming four or five acres in wheat. How in due course of time we reaped that wheat and hauled
                        it to a threshing machine, and after the turmoil we had about five bushels of Number Two wheat,
                        worth two dollars a bushel, but it had cost us something like twenty dollars.
                    There was then in our midst a most distinguished educator,… who with some assistance,
                        evolved a magnificent dream of a nation wide course in War Aims. We signed up something over one
                        hundred per cent…. every one on the campus regardless, was required to take it [for a
                        year]…. I lectured alternately to one of these classes made up of four companies of
                        S.A.T.C…. I have lectured to that class when a little over three hundred of them were
                        sound asleep.19
               
                
            When Uncle Sam decided he could use even over-age college professors without technical training as
                    instructors for student army training corps, half a dozen signed up. Among them was Esarey. The
                    military interlude at Camp Sheridan was, by all reports, not too strenuous. On one occasion, when
                    the outfit was lined up for grenade throwing practice, they were ordered to go through the motions
                    but not to throw. There may have been some bets down at the end of the line. Some claimed they did
                    not hear the order. At any rate, several let loose with fine heaves—and so did the
                    officer. From here on accounts vary. Esarey maintained that an innocent look saved the day, though
                    admitting that he threw his grenade farthest. Dr. Clarence May, Indiana University chemistry
                    professor, insisted that they all went on kitchen police, although they were squeezed out after a
                    few hours by other criminals with more recent sentences.
            On another occasion Esarey dropped out from a hike, sat on a stone, and, against orders, lighted a
                    cigar, no one being in sight. When he looked up there was a captain standing right up against him.
                    Whether, as he insisted, the captain accepted one of those vile war-time nickel cigars and 
                  
                     19 Logan Esarey to President Herman B Wells, Indiana University, April
                            16, 1942.
               
                     joined him is not established as a historical fact. But, after
                    all, didn't Union soldiers drop out to eat blackberries when moving up to Bull Run? Anyway,
                    Uncle Sam gave up in this project and sent the men home again.
            When the turmoil quieted, Esarey was back in his room at the library, collecting the papers of
                    William Henry Harrison. Trips to 
                        Washington
                     and elsewhere followed. Historical materials of this type were not so available at 
                        Washington
                     then as now; many documents were dug out of attics and basements. The two volumes of
                    the Messages and Letters of William Henry Harrison, 1800–1811
               20 and the volume of Messages and Papers of Jonathan Jennings,
                        Ratliff 
                            Boone
                        , William Hendricks
               21 were published 1922–1924.
                    The work was not absolutely complete; such works seldom are. The editor's idea was that
                    such papers should be made available for use, even though a few documents were still missing. He
                    assembled the items as he insisted the historian had to use them, that is, chronologically,
                    regardless of whether they were written by or to his man, and provided the introductions and
                    explanatory notes. Another two volumes of messages of the early Indiana governors following
                    Hendricks were prepared but not published.
            In 1927, Dr. Esarey resigned the editorship of the Magazine. The immediate and
                    obvious cause was a difference of opinion regarding the statement, "Published with the
                    Cooperation of the Indiana Historical Society," which had appeared on the title pages of
                    the Magazine, and the meaning of that statement. In the argument things got
                    somewhat confused and some University authorities even spoke of "further subsidy [of the
                        Magazine] by the Society," depending upon the continuation of the
                    statement. Others almost reached the conclusion that cooperation was impossible, because Dr. Esarey
                    would "not cooperate with anybody." The editor had grown exasperated with the
                    uncertain financial arrangements and what he regarded as the divided control and vascillating
                    policy; so he remained obdurate, as he could on occasion. But the basic cause of Dr.
                    Esarey's decision was a 
                  
                     20 Logan Esarey (ed.), Messages and Letters of William
                                Henry Harrison (Indiana Historical Collections, VII and IX, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922).
                  
                     21
                            idem, Messages and Papers of Jonathan Jennings, Ratliff Boon,
                                and William Hendricks (Indiana Historical Collections, XII, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1924).
               
                     feeling that over a period of years the authorities, both state
                    and university, who had the allotting of funds for work in Indiana history, were allotting the funds
                    to one place, while the work was being done in another. As a matter of policy, whatever the reasons,
                    the editor admitted their right to do this. Also, since all his editing work had been carried in
                    addition to a full time university teaching schedule and without compensation, he felt he had a
                    right to sever his connection with it.
            One other factor no doubt had its influence. Dr. Esarey had realized for some years that, due to his
                    editing and writing largely in the field of Indiana history, he had been labelled or
                    "typed" as a local historian. This not only limited the demand for his services,
                    but, far more important in his mind, his reputation as a historian. After all, the Middle West was
                    his field; Indiana was merely his special patch in that field. At any rate he wanted to write the
                    first volume of a projected three volume work on the Old Northwest from earliest times to the Civil
                    War.
            In 1925 he began the unfinished and unpublished manuscript on The Old Northwest to 1815. Lighting
                    right into the middle of things, he began with Braddock's Campaign in 1755 and carried
                    through to about 1790. This period, which entirely antedates the history of Indiana as a state, was
                    his favorite period. Probably no one knew it as intimately as he. Using mainly the published
                    sources—colonial documents, military papers, journals, correspondence of participants,
                    and the accounts of contemporary historians—it was truly a job of
                    "re-search." The work was not intended to be all-inclusive. Where good treatments
                    already existed, the account was minimized. But around certain important topics, such as
                    Braddock's defeat, Pontiac's Conspiracy, the Ordinance of 1787, and the Whisky
                    Insurrection, new presentation and conclusions were built. For the first time it appears that not
                    Pontiac but Parkman made Pontiac a famous Indian; that 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Hamilton
                     did not appear foolish but very fore-sighted in raising an army as big as that which
                    defeated Cornwallis, to save the country from a few score disgruntled whiskey boys; that the whiskey
                    fracas was a convenient camouflage behind which to make preparations for more dangerous
                    contingencies. 
                        Washington
                     had already lost two armies to the Indians in the Northwest and the third, 
                        Wayne
                    's, 
                    
                  
                            1925
                        
                then in the field, might have to fight the British as well. Throughout is presented the
                    impact of the French and Indian wars and the War of Independence upon the frontier. That this was
                    total war for its time, that more civilians than soldiers lost their lives, is impressed upon the
                    mind by the sheer weight of the chronicle of the border wars which continued after the
                    "war" had ended. Above all is the emphasis on the viewpoint of the West, of the
                    men who bore the brunt of the struggle, a viewpoint frequently at variance with that of those in
                    power at the time, as well as that of many of our historians. Considerable documentary material has
                    been made available since this manuscript was written, but it changes the picture in no essential
                        part.22
            
            Although Esarey, like Turner, published relatively little in the field of the history of the Middle
                    West, his contributions were large. In both cases the contributions were largely indirect, that is,
                    through the seminar teaching and the work of their students. Turner, Alvord, Paxson, and Esarey all
                    have their own "intellectual offspring," but their
                    "grandchildren" and even "great-grandchildren" are far more
                        
                  
                     22 It is the hope of those familiar with the importance of the
                            scholarly contributions of this work to be able to finish it and make it available for
                            publication.
               
                    numerous.23 Turner and Alvord had the start
                    in point of time, but all were working parallel and independently on the same basic problems. On a
                    number of occasions the Indiana historian was able to help both Turner and Channing clear up some
                    situation which, on the evidence they had, did not make sense. As a historian of the Middle West
                    Esarey will certainly rank among the leading half dozen or so scholars of our day.24
            
            Impressive and sound as was the work of Dr. Esarey in writing and editing Indiana history, it was
                    equalled if not surpassed in lasting importance by two other cherished labors. Most of what he wrote
                    in Indiana history can, and probably will, be better done within twenty years. But this will be
                    possible largely because of his own collecting and teaching.
            Collecting of materials on Indiana and the Middle West began simultaneously with his writing. In this
                    work Indiana had been almost criminally negligent. Much valuable historical material had gone
                    outside the state into other libraries. Worse still, much had been destroyed after years of storage,
                    simply because no one seemed interested in collecting and preserving it. On more than one occasion
                    Esarey arrived a week or a year after valuable newspaper files or other materials had been burned,
                    given to the Salvation Army for scrap, or used for packing. Separating historical materials of
                    public value from people is often a delicate as well as a fascinating task, particularly so when
                    little or no money is available for purchase. In this work Dr. Esarey had three outstanding assets,
                    one almost peculiarly his own: patience, sincere and unselfish interest in the history, and a
                    personality and appearance which enabled him to establish intimate contacts with and gain the
                    confidence of all classes of people. His was the natural "travelling man's
                    disposition," though he had nothing material to sell. He just liked people. He did not have
                    to "meet" people; they were friends before they spoke. 
                  
                     23 Including, as Esarey said, a few books of doubtful parentage.
                  
                     24 It has been the writer's good fortune to have studied with
                            four of these scholars; he knows the others fairly well. Although comparisons are entirely
                            futile, it seems fair to state that Esarey had one advantage over most of them. He was by
                            nature, type, personality, and environment a bit closer to, more in rapport with, the people
                            of the period in which he worked. It is a hard thing to get at. Put it this way: Drop Esarey
                            back into the period 1760–1825, he could with no essential change (often not even
                            of dress) have been accepted outright as a Scout on Bouquet's or Clark's
                            expeditions, as a keel boatman or barger, as a school teacher, small farmer, banker, editor,
                            fence viewer, or member of Congress.
               
                     On the one hand, he could convince the owners of a large
                    newspaper that a hundred-year file of their publication was in a way public property and should be
                    turned over in indefinite loan to the state libraries, even though outsiders might offer thousands
                    of dollars. On the other hand, he could win the confidence of the backwoods farmers, suspicious of
                    "city fellers" with too glib a tongue. Though he spoke not their grammar, he spoke
                    their language; they considered him one of them. In many instances, individuals, whether well-to-do
                    and educated or poor and illiterate, gave their possessions to the man rather than to the Historical
                    Survey, the university, or the state.25 It is impossible to measure the value of
                    such collections in dollars; many items are unique. Suffice it to say that —200,000 would
                    not now duplicate the mid-west Americana added to the Indiana University Library by Esarey. Probably
                    no one in the field since Draper did so much with so little. The library spends now, in a single
                    year, as much as was available for this work over a period of twenty-five years.
            Teaching, like writing or clowning, is an art. It is not something one learns by formula from a book
                    on pedagogy or a teachers' college. No great teacher is ever aware of what
                    "method" he uses. Besides knowledge and scholarship (still sine qua
                        nons, modern educational theory to the contrary notwithstanding), successful teaching is
                    built upon an understanding of people, patience, versatility of interests, graphic and dramatic
                    ability, humor, wit, and common sense. So it was with Esarey. Mix portions of all usable
                    "systems" from Socrates' to the latest psycho-physio-bio-chemic,
                    emphasize the logical, the chronological, and the unlogical, add an inexhaustible supply of graphic
                    illustrations, and compound with equal parts of the man—it cannot be described, it can
                    only be experienced. If any definite features could be picked as outstanding, they would probably be
                    the unconscious Socratic technique—getting the student to develop his mind by pulling one
                    brain muscle against another—and the graphic. The man could come nearer to drawing the
                    picture of an abstraction on the blackboard than any teacher his students had ever known. Such a
                    teacher enjoys teaching, can teach at any level, will always be teaching. Whether 
                  
                     25 The most valuable single document now in the Indiana University
                            Library was so given.
               
                     teaching his youngsters to read and think at pre-school age, or
                    his grandchildren the marvels of nature or how to use a gun, or leading his colleagues in discussion
                    on the nature of history, it was all the same to Esarey. He would need no "lesson
                    plan" at his finger tips; the historian would not be certain as to what is the plan of
                    life.
            Although the three "courses" usually taught at Indiana University by Dr. Esarey
                    were pitched at different levels, the underlying goal was ever the same. The Indiana history he
                    regarded as general and cultural. It drew heavily from all types of students. Many took it who never
                    had any other course in history. In every section there were usually three distinct groups:
                    students, possible students, and loafers (athletic and otherwise), who were looking for an easy two
                    hours' credit. The teacher worked on all three; he felt they were equally important. An
                    instance or two may illustrate. Two very prominent athletes were finding the ordinary books quite
                    too formidable opponents. The teacher provided them with a simple but contemporary story-book on
                    pioneer life. The students read it and reported for conference. The first dozen questions he asked
                    were primary. A child could have answered them. But gradually they were led into contradictions;
                    they were caught "swallowing yarns." "Go read it again!" Hours
                    were spent in conference. Several readings were made. A small rudiment of a critical sense was
                    developed; the boys got to the place where they could discard the evidence that razorback hogs and
                    buffalo could climb trees. Another time an innocent young thing, who had identified 
                  
                            Poland
                        -Chinas as "recent immigrants" and Merinos
                    as "ministers of a religious sect on the frontier," was taken through an
                    individual course of instruction on hogs, sheep, chickens, and the like, which looked quite
                    kin-dergartenish to the outsider. But step by step the discussion got around to the tariff, and the
                    student began to realize that this was not (as the instructor had related an old pioneer had
                    thought) a disease of sheep. In both cases the students were quite proud of themselves. They passed
                    the course with as good grades as some better students who had not made similar intellectual efforts
                    on much more advanced problems.
            Sometimes the teacher lectured, quietly, logically, effectively. More often it was informal
                    discussion, background-  building and thought-provoking. The
                    teacher often took great delight in demolishing his own History when cited by a
                    student in support of some point. He had no faith in text books and wanted his students to be
                    satisfied with nothing less than first-hand evidence. Students were endlessly startled by the
                    teacher's detailed knowledge of their home town, its people and history, their ancestors,
                    and local customs. It was not unusual to hear one say, "Why I've lived next door
                    to that all my life and had to come to college to learn about it."
            In the course on the Middle West a more advanced group presented. Here the students were dumped
                    without ceremony into the vast literature of the subject: published documents, personal records,
                    chormcles of border wars, constitutions, monographs, general histories, historical periodicals, even
                    newspapers. The reading lists were purposely unorganized. It was part of the student's task
                    to learn, under guidance, what was what and how to use it. One of the things the instructor watched
                    for was the beginning of realization on the part of the student that the history of any region or
                    period, however limited, is a body of knowledge far beyond the individual's capacity to
                    comprehend in its entirety. At times the class period would be given to sweeping views of the
                    "stream of history." At others the whole hour would be consumed testing the
                    evidence regarding Major Samuel McCulloch's famous leap down the rocky precipice and into
                    the creek with his rifle and accoutrements (the Indians were after him). Many such problems were
                    never solved. Some students never knew what it was all about; they wanted some definite
                    "information" which they could memorize and hand back on examinations. Frequent
                    brief oral reports on an infinite variety of subjects were a regular part of the program. When a
                    student, allotted fifteen minutes, spent all the time leading up to the subject, the instructor
                    would like as not say, "time is up, Mr. Smith," and then ask the class what the
                    report was about. When no one could guess, Mr. Smith was sometimes slightly embarrassed. As a rule
                    it never happened again to him.
            The course on the Far West was offered in alternate years. Dr. Esarey never pretended to be a
                    specialist in this field, yet so omnivorous was his reading that few had a  better grasp of the subject, from Spanish explorers to the Grand
                    Coulee. If he had any hobbies in the Far West they were the cow country, cowboys, and the Mormons.
                    If at times irreverent students referred to the course as "cowboy history," there
                    were also times when their lack of preparation on the geography, Indian wars,
                    transportation—to say nothing of cows—made them feel caught off base.
            During the years from 1913 to 1930 when there were regularly half a dozen or so graduate students in
                    the Mid-West seminar, students and instructor worked in the same room, often at the same table.
                    Problems were discussed whenever they came up. No work the instructor was engaged in took precedence
                    over constant interruptions by the students. His patience in listening to the same old jokes which
                    the students discovered in the old newspapers was remarkable. For years he worked at the rusty old
                    print of newspapers by the light of an obsolete yellow bulb eight feet overhead, and made gentle fun
                    of those who had to have a better light. He surrendered in time, however, and got not only a closer
                    lamp, but spectacles as well. In the preparation of theses or studies the student was expected not
                    only to be able to find and use the evidence, but to present it in a correct and readable manner.
                    The instructor had as keen an eye for wandering sentences, dangling participles, and antecedentless
                    pronouns as any English expert. In the early years he was also insistent regarding the use of
                    footnote references and other "scholarly appurtenances." He was never as good a
                    critic of his own writing as of that of others; and in later years he not only became indifferent
                    to, but revolted against, what he called the "paraphernalia of scholarship." The
                    graduate seminar produced, besides those previously mentioned in connection with the Magazine,
                    studies of Indiana counties, educational institutions, roads and railroads, reform movements,
                    constitutions, and many other topics.26
            
            
               
                  26 Among Indiana University theses not previously listed are the
                        following: Ezra E. Macy, The Gerrymander in the History of Indiana's Legislative and
                        Congressional Appointments (A. M. thesis, 1927); Ralph J. Blank, Early Indiana Railroad
                        Building, 1832–1850 (A. M. thesis, 1916); Ruth E. Brayton, The Constitution of 1816
                        (A. M. thesis, 1929); Katharine B. Page, Some Early Chapters in the History of Peoria, 
                            Illinois
                         (A. M. thesis, 1935); Geneal Prather, The Building of the 
                            Michigan
                         Road (A. M. thesis, 1941). Doctoral dissertations include: Arthur Deen, Frontier
                        Science in 
                            Kentucky
                         and the Old Northwest, 1790–1860 (Ph. D. thesis, 1938); Willard H.
                        Smith, The Political 
            
            
            Regardless of what course, period, or region Dr. Esarey was teaching, he was always teaching the
                    methods, processes, and uses of history. Most of his more mature students rated this teaching as his
                        forte, above all others. More or less regularly in the advanced classes,
                    "blue Mondays" were devoted to this subject. An unscheduled seminar met around the
                    instructor's desk in classroom or office and continued the discussion of interesting
                    problems through the next free period.
            History was presented in its broadest sense as everything that has ever happened in the life of
                    man—the sum total of human experience; in its narrower sense, as that part of this
                    experience on which we have direct evidence. He emphasized the continuity of history, chronology,
                    and evidence. 
                        Time is the most stable concept we have, the widest, most definite of concepts. Time is a
                            convention which holds the fabric of history together. An infinite number of things,
                            crossing an infinite number of times, makes an infinite number of events.
                     Of systems of chronology he was a close student. At times, in order to impress the point,
                    he had to catch students up before the class for accepting as bona fide a document which was dated
                    by a calendar not yet in use. 
                        Evidence is, in a sense, the foundation of history. Evidence offers the historian more leeway
                            than chronology. He seldom has all the evidence. A case at law is essentially an historic
                            investigation, but there the interested parties select the evidence. This
                            is argument. The historian should merely clarify and present all useful evidence on the case
                            of life, and leave the verdict to the reader. The interpretative historian presents a
                            verdict.
                     This last point was not only fundamental in Esarey's concept of history, but was
                    one and the same with his concept of democracy. "Take away the one [the
                    individual's right to have the evidence and to render his own verdict on it], and the other
                    can not exist." Merely presenting the evidence did not assure a correct verdict. A critical
                    sense was necessary on the part of the juror. But a critical sense could be developed 
                  Career of Schuyler Colfax to His Election as Vice-President in 1868 (Ph. D. thesis, 1939);
                            and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana Public Finance, 1800–1826 (Ph.D. thesis, 1940). On
                            October 29, 1942, according to a decision made at its founding several years ago, the
                            Graduate History Club of Indiana University became the Logan Esarey Club. Thus was
                            established a living monument in tribute to Dr. Esarey's work in his
                        seminar.
               
                     in a child. After all, there are ways of determining whether
                    the cart is pushing the horse or the horse pulling the cart. Then there is always logic. Woe to the
                    student caught reasoning (like some of our popular historians) post hoc ergo propter
                        hoc, or finding causation of two or more events from each other, when they all stemmed from
                    a common cause.
            He was equally insistent on one other fundamental, that is, that the historian could not find any law
                    (general meaning) in history. 
                        A fascinating delusion of history has always been that by looking down the trail by which we
                            have arrived at the present we will be enabled to prognosticate the future. This we have
                            termed the philosophy of history.
                     After discussing the achievements of historians in organizing the vast amount of historical
                    materials, he continued: 
                        The "How" and the "Why" in history lead us into much more
                            difficult grounds. In the ordinary meaning of the word, "How" refers to
                            the means used in accomplishing an end and so comes in the field of historical
                            investigation. "Why" is usually understood to refer to the motives in
                            men's minds and these can only be approximated on the basis that men intend to do
                            the things their actions would naturally lead to. This is historical interpretation and
                            never can be settled absolutely by any methods now known to historians.
                        If a theological determination is implied in the "How" and
                            "Why," that is, How or Why life was first begun on this planet, we are led
                            into a field where the documents fail us utterly. Mr. H. G. Wells in his Outlines traversed this field with apparent confidence but so far as history is
                            concerned it is only another illustration of the fools and angels. The problem is clearly
                            within the fields of Biology and Geology and it will scarcely make it history to print it
                            under such a title. Of course polliwogs have a history but it is doubtful if it will throw
                            much light on human conduct.27
                  
                    
            
            Nor would he accept any particular form of "determinism," economic or otherwise.
                    Philosophers, sociologists, and theologians could play with such ideas. Even the historian, in his
                    private capacity, might philosophize, but there was no "philosophy of history."
                    "There is history, and there is philosophy, but there
                    is no philosophy of history. The two may be opposite sides of the same shield, but they are not the
                    same." Sometimes he resented the restriction of his chosen discipline and spoke of
                    "The poor old club-footed 
                  
                     27 The Outlook for History, an unpublished paper which he read at
                            historical meetings.
               
                     historian, held down from flights of fancy and grandiose ideas
                    by the facts of life." But if at times he felt inclined to jump the traces, he was always
                    checked with a jerk by those who were seeking to pervert and prostitute history for a purpose. No
                    matter how good the end in view—whether good citizenship, character building, morality,
                    or patriotism—it made no difference. He insisted that history itself is no more moral or
                    immoral than a proposition in mathematics or a biological form, and on those who sought to make it
                    so by some hocus pocus he could vent not gentle satire but blunt ridicule. When a well-meaning
                    preacher sought to add to Lincoln's stature by making of him a great lover as well, the
                    historian wrote: 
                        Lucy [Lincoln's grandmother] is thrown into probable contact with soldiers, she
                            attended probable balls, made probable journeys along probable roads, saw probable sights,
                            held probable amours with probable suitors and finally became the probable mother of a
                            probable daughter by a probable man…. One might question the title of the volume
                            outright—Did Lincoln love all these women or any one of them? He saw his
                            grandmother Sparrow a few times when he was a small child. May never have seen his
                            grandmother Lincoln, certainly not often enough to "love" her much; the
                            girl in the covered wagon was a pipe dream of Lincoln—and he had many; Katie Roby
                            was at a spelling match with Lincoln; Caroline Meeker was present at a trial where Lincoln
                            was a party and perhaps sympathized with him, may even have told him so; Polly Warnick was
                            one of the six daughters of Sheriff William Warnick for whom Lincoln worked as a day
                            laborer. She was of marriageable age at the time—further evidence of love, none.
                            That Lincoln exceeded in filial devotion all other boys born or reared in southern Indiana
                            at that time is a reflection which thousands will resent; that thousands of other children
                            were left orphans at a similar age in early Indiana is a commonplace; that Nancy Hanks was
                            the only "Angel Mother" that ever inhabited southern Indiana is
                            gratuitous; that Abraham Lincoln was more than ordinary as courtier or husband is doubtful.
                            Lincoln was great enough and Indiana glories in his greatness but such balderdash as the
                            volume under review will not add to his fame.28
                  
                    
            
            Such brief extracts from lecture notes and conversations give but an inadequate idea of Dr.
                    Esarey's work in this important subject, to which he gave more profound thought than to any
                    other. It was the often-expressed regret of his advanced students that he never wrote a much needed
                    volume on History, particularly as they saw not only Croce but Breasted and others build outstanding
                    works around the 
                  
                     28
                            Indiana Magazine of History, XXIII (1927), 470–71.
               
                     themes developed by their teacher.29
                    Perhaps it was just as well. As with Dr. Johnson and Mr. Justice Holmes, the man came out better by
                    way of his talk than his writing.
            * * * * * *
                    * * *
            As vital a part of the man's mind as were his thoughts on history—and fascinating
                    mental exercises are such problems in themselves—they were still not the core of his
                    intellectual interest. They were but ancillary to, instruments for, the achievement of his
                    foundation goals—education and democracy, in the end one and the same thing.
            Much strange raiment has been draped upon Jefferson's "handmaid" in our
                    day, much of it about as effective (and as diaphanous) as a cellophane wrapper in the Arctic.
                    "Education as training for life" is perfectly checkmated by the practice of
                    withholding from the pupil anything that isn't "delectable."
                    "Frames of reference" and catechisms are drawn up and the pupils are indoctrinated
                    with the "correct attitude." Teachers are trained on the theory that
                    "content knowledge" is a handicap. History as a content subject, the storebin
                    whence come the facts on which are based not only economics, government, law, and sociology, but
                    life itself, is largely eliminated. And without the facts there can be no thought process, no
                    verdict. Even universities are occasionally told that the intellectual objective is certainly not
                    one of the main objectives.
            Democrat that he was in education, Dr. Esarey reluctantly admitted that at times it appeared that a
                    century of free public education had hindered, rather than helped, the people to do straight
                    thinking in government, religion, and education. But he never surrendered the idea that it was the
                    duty of the state, and of the teachers, from primary grades to the university, to accept what pupils
                    or students were the current output of the populus and to do the best by them that was humanly
                    possible. A state university in his 
                  
                     29 Benedetto Croce, History, Its Theory and Practice (
                                New York
                            , 1923) and James H. Breasted, The Dawn of Conscience (
                                New York
                            , 1934). It was no mere coincidence that, at the American Historical Association
                            meeting in 1933, when Charles A. Beard began his scholarly presidential address,
                            "Written History as an Act of Faith," (American Historical
                                Review, XXXIX [1933–1934], 219–31), Dr. Esarey nudged a
                            colleague and presented him with an outline, step by step, of a discourse he had never seen
                            before. Beard leaned heavily on Croce, and as for Croce, Esarey's students had had
                            all his essentials before his work was written.
               
                     mind had no more right to select its clientele than a football
                    coach had to buy good players. He did not accept Jefferson's idea that only the best were
                    worth the investment at the top levels, for he was not sure at just what level the "natural
                    aristocracy" would break out. As for condemning some, by means of those "terrible
                    weapons, intelligence tests" or otherwise, to become hewers of wood and drawers of water,
                    it was anathema to his democratic soul. He wrote in 1917: 
                        No one has less sympathy for strictly utilitarian teaching than I have…. I revolt
                            at the idea that any man, even myself, or any group of men, however well qualified, have any
                            shadow of right to step into the public schools and condemn my children to any form of
                            vocational work which does not permit of the highest development from the humanitarian
                            standpoint. I am entirely satisfied personally when the schools have turned out first rate
                            men and women morally, and I am entirely convinced that these same men and women will be
                            able to earn an honest living in the world.30
                  
                    
            
            This was the general theory. In practice Esarey did emphasize the intellectual objective above all
                    others. At times he did recommend frankly to students that they try to be happy horse traders rather
                    than unhappy lawyers or teachers. He believed that the best way to administer most disciplinary
                    cases—absences, "activities," and the like—was by way of the
                    scholastic requirements. And when it came to moral lapses—cheating, lying, or
                    hypocrisy—he could drop a student like a hot coal. He was vastly distrustful of and
                    impatient with anything—administrative topheaviness, too many rules, revolutionary
                    curricular changes, or reforms—which seemed so frequently to lose sight of the main idea.
                    When the university in the 1930's went through the throes of a curriculum revision, he
                    said, "The mountain labors…. " He felt it did not face the major fact,
                    the need of more work of better quality. And again, more recently, when after scores of committee
                    and faculty meetings and two years of effort, the university produced a self-survey report of some
                    thousand pages, he wrote: 
                        The only book I can think of now, that was more humorous in the original reading…
                            was Mark Twain's Innocents Abroad. Verily what would we do
                            without the reformer in the land! If he were a farmer, he would plant his corn and go the
                            next day and take it up and readjust it in some particular way. But I trust the University
                                
                        
                           30 Logan Esarey to President William Lowe Bryan, Indiana
                                    University, October 4, 1917.
                     
                             has received no serious damage, and I am sure it has
                            been a great relief to most of the faculty as well as a pleasure to some, just merely to
                            give voice, or rather pencil, to their marvelous skill in administrative lines.
                            Incidentally, I do not recognize a single suggestion of any importance but was lifted bodily
                            from some other university catalog. In one of the few talks I have ever attempted at a
                            faculty meeting, I argued for an Indiana University to suit Hoosier children and develop
                            along Hoosier lines. I am still of that opinion. Yale is a great university, but we
                            don't want a Yale in 
                                Bloomington
                            . Neither do we want a 
                                Columbia
                             any closer to us than 
                                New York
                             City…. If I were to mention one thing that Indiana University needs,
                            and has needed for many years, it is about fifty first class liberal arts teachers. What is
                            worse, such men are not on the market. It is hard to pick one before he is developed and
                            impossible to buy him after he is developed…. You no doubt have heard of the
                            terrible danger of what they call inbreeding. I merely suggest that along that line, it is
                            barely possible that Indiana men and women, trained in our own institutions may possibly
                            understand Indiana better than some wandering Jew from 
                                Vienna
                            , or even Jerusalem.
                        Looking back over the last forty years to the time, when Indiana University was a very
                            insignificant affair, it seems to me that the burden of making Indiana what it is has been
                            borne by Indiana men, and in that forty years, I think I can safely say that if one were to
                            pick out fifty leading men on the campus, at least fifty of them would be "to the
                            manor born."31
                  
                    
            
            Educational "reforms," "socialization of the curriculum" in the
                    name of democracy, nor even war should be permitted to lead us away from the fundamentals. In fact
                    he hoped that war might help us realize how far we had strayed from them. In April, 1942, he gave
                    his last written advice to President Wells of Indiana University: 
                        I don't doubt that you will have endless suggestions for the reform of the
                            University. We have always had these cattle with us, and you are farmer enough to know what
                            happens when they find a gap in the fence. In the thirty years I have been acquainted with
                            the University, I have never known one of these reformers, but what in some way intended to
                            lessen the time required for a student to get through school. Regardless of the fact that
                            scores of new subjects have been put in to enrich the curriculum, many of them in times of
                            stress or distress, all of them have led toward the primrose path. It was a rather long call
                            from calculus to ring around the rosie bush, but in the course of our reforms there, the
                            ring around the rosie bush has been made equal in educative value to Homer or Logic or some
                            such frivolous study of the old days. One would think, looking back over the period and
                            noting just the general features, that attendance at college was a penalty inflicted on a
                            more or less innocent generation. 
                        
                           31 Logan Esarey to President Herman B Wells, Indiana
                                    University, November 1, 1940.
                     
                             The universities in the long run set the patterns of
                            life. The reformers invariably attempt to cut those patterns more and more narrow.32
                  
                    
            
            Such was the loyal Hoosier's idea of a great mid-western or provincial university as
                    contrasted to the great metropolitan or international university. The power to run such a university
                    he would grant no more to an administrative bureaucracy than to a sectarian, political, or personal
                    clique, but only to the agents of the people, advised by a faculty of responsible teachers and
                    scholars. When, as often happened, great teachers and scholars were not consulted, the state as well
                    as the university lost. There should be no men who were in the university but not of the university.
                    On deans (always his personal friends) his classic comment was, "There are too damned many
                    deans and there are too many damned deans!"
            Politics, the business of organizing and running the state, is an important part of history. In fact,
                    despite the de-emphasizing efforts of "social historians," it furnishes as good a
                    thread as any around which to organize history. It has to draw upon all history for its being.
            The historian is usually interested in politics; Dr. Esarey, unusually so. Always a serious student
                    of political philosophy, his deepest interest centered in the principles and processes upon which
                    the American republic was founded and operated. His belief in a proper balance between liberty and
                    authority, the states and the nation, and between the different branches of the governments, in a
                    "government of measures not of men," and in the essential dignity of the
                    individual was a deep-seated conviction; it was founded on faith as well as reason. He was a
                    democrat by environment and instinct. He had the frontiersman's penchant for deflating any
                    person who put on airs or assumed importance, whether because of wealth, power, or superior
                    intelligence. Yet he envied not wealth and greatly respected intelligence. That he was never seen in
                    dress clothes, and in academic costume but two or three times in his life, was not due to a personal
                    whim. Like Jefferson and John Adams, he believed that government and society should be run by the
                    "natural aristocrats democratically selected"; and he had faith that, by and large over a
                    period of time, the people had gumption 
                  
                     32 Logan Esarey to President Herman B Wells, Indiana University, April
                            16, 1942.
               
                     enough not only to select their best leaders, but to think
                    soundly on basic problems. In both philosophies, of course, "the people" in mind
                    were those who had a real stake (spiritual, not material) in the country and some centuries of
                    experience in self government behind them. As Jefferson emphasized education and local
                    self-government as the hooks upon which democracy hung, Esarey emphasized critical
                        ability and integrity. The puritan in him revolted at dishonesty and hypocrisy. He often
                    argued about which was more dangerous to representative government, the "honest ignoramus
                    or the intelligent but not hypocritical crook." As between the two evils, he preferred the
                    latter. He came nearer manifesting personal hatred toward those who robbed the people of their
                    "mother wit" (a far greater loss than their money) than toward any others.33
            
            Developments of our times cast a doubt as to whether this quality—mental and moral
                    integrity—the pivot on which democracy depended, was holding up. On no other topic did he
                    dwell so often or speak with such intense seriousness in later years. He often emphasized the point
                    that humor was a critical quality, that as long as the people could "laugh it off"
                    there was still hope for them, in spite of all their derelictions and turpitude. The most brilliant
                    lecture he ever delivered on this subject was unrecorded and unprintable.
            Back in the "era of the red flag—SLOW MEN WORKING," Dr. Esarey
                    contracted for a small WPA outbuilding at his little refuge on White River. He
                    needed amusement and felt that the project would furnish a quantity for some period of time. As he
                    sat and studied nature and human nature, he would report progress to the "office
                    seminar" from week to week. But he had not foreseen the final effect. When, in due course,
                    the job was finished, and a detailed and intimate set of government instructions was furnished for
                    its use, it was too much. The ensuing discourse was more than satire. It was an annihilating and
                    devastating Philippic. He out-Lincolned Lincoln at his best (or worst) and out-Rileyed Riley. He
                    drew upon the philosophy of the 
                  
                     33 Although Dr. Esarey was opposed to heroes and hero worship and
                            frequently pointed out the dangers of emphasizing the idea in our schools, nevertheless, he
                            had, if not his heroes, at least his great examples. In our political history the first rank
                            included 
                                Washington
                            , Lincoln, 
                                Cleveland
                            , and Hoover, selected on the basis of their intellectual integrity and bravery.
                            The Adamses never achieved first rank, probably because they violated his democratic idea of
                            modesty.
               
                     ages and all the barnyard metaphors of three nations. It ended
                    with a two-word exclamation in keeping with the subject. History missed a classic.
            In more dignified, but not more serious vein, he wrote in 1942: 
                        I infer that nothing much can be expected in the way of education until this little war of
                            ours is over. I don't need to tell you my attitude and appreciation of the whole
                            business, but if we can get out of it with any kind of government or any kind of commercial
                            set-up short of flat bankruptcy I think we should be thankful for it. If we were looking
                            back 2000 years I think we would call it the Roosevelt Tyranny which illustrates almost
                            perfectly the line of progress laid down by Plato for all popular governments. Whether we
                            can extricate the old republic from this mob rule is a grave question. There are very few
                            instances in history where a people have been able to retrace such a fatal trip. It might
                            have been salvaged after '36 and possibly part of it after '40 but by
                            '44 a numerous part of our population will have had no appreciation or experience
                            of representative government under a written constitution.
                        It seems to me we might very well do without the supreme court and congress since each has so
                            far as possible divested itself of all power and therefore all reason for existence.
                        But why discuss it, will be your inquiry and I have no answers for you, except that there is
                            a certain amount of rather doubtful pleasure in recounting the pleasures of the past. More
                            especially is this true when there is less reason for discussing the possible pleasures of
                            the future. There is not much possibility, judging from examples we have had in the past for
                            many years, for a nation that has gone bankrupt.34
                  
                    
            
            In politics Dr. Esarey was a life-long Republican, and in no wise was this inconsistent with his
                    sincere democracy. His family and immediate community were strongly anti-slavery and, during the
                    post Civil War period (though they could hardly be accused of being capitalists), staunch opponents
                    of cheap money, inflation, free-silver, and repudiation. The community was a sort of island of
                    Republicanism in the old Jacksonian triangle of Democracy. (
                        Spencer County
                     next door voted for Breckenridge, the secession candidate, in 1860). He believed, along
                    with Uncle Joe Cannon and others, that without party discipline there could be no responsible
                    government under the representative system. "If all were Mugwumps, who would ever get a
                    majority?" Only once did he ever slip from the straight and narrow path: in 1912 he voted
                    for Roosevelt. Like the fellow in World War I, who, 
                  
                     34 Logan Esarey to R. Carlyle Buley, February 5, 1942.
               
                     when on leave in 
                        Paris
                    , spread-eagled himself through a plate glass window, he was later never able to explain
                    it, but at the time "it seemed like a hell of a good idea." Unlike the fellow who
                    was able to extricate himself from the hollow log which was slowly swelling and crushing him, by
                    recalling that he voted for Bryan in 1896, he was never able to find any practical use for the
                        dereliction.35 He, like Jackson (in his words, if not always in his deeds),
                    felt that the legislature should be given the benefit of the doubt as against the executive. He
                    never approved of the presidents who did too much carrying of the ball. He had a notion that the
                    best presidents on the whole had been those who had served apprenticeship in Congress and had
                    learned that no single man is indispensable, any time, any place. He disliked very much a cynical
                    attitude toward politics on the part of students or citizens. Such an attitude he considered an
                    indictment against the majority of the people.
            * * * * * *
                    * * *
            Many people knew Logan Esarey, not as a historian or teacher, but just as Logan Esarey, a character,
                    a personality. His widest circle of acquaintanceship centered around his activities as humorist at
                    large and in fraternal work. He has been variously referred to as a Hoosier Will Rogers, as an
                    educated Abe Martin, and as an "onery old cuss." If there be such a thing as
                    "marginal uniqueness," he had it; the margin was wide and merged with the whole
                    page. His humor was distinctive yet inseparable from the personality. It was dry, whimsical, shot
                    through with a streak of mis-chievousness, never biting. The characteristic was no doubt inherited
                    but, since it was appreciated, was also cultivated. "Life is a high comedy," said
                    he, "so why not play a part?"
            Some facets of this humor are easily delineated. There was the same knack for using the homely,
                    sometimes salty, metaphor of the Lincoln type. Such allusions came naturally to both. There was the
                    Mark Twain tall tale—but not too tall—strain, also the double-level effect of
                    a Swift or Lewis Car-roll. 
                  
                     35 On more than one occasion the writer, finding himself on the bad
                            end of an argument, could always pull out this joker card. Whereupon Dr. Esarey would hang
                            his head, throw up his hands, and pretend to give up. It is only fair to relate, however,
                            that the dirty infighting was not all one-sided, as Dr. Esarey frequently inferred (entirely
                            without documentary evidence) that the writer had suffered a similar lapse about twenty
                            years later.
               
                     There were the resources of a classical as well as
                    historical-philosophical education to draw upon. Puns played no part, nor, strangely enough, was
                    there any tendency towards the practical joking dear to the pioneer; but the "wise
                    crack" in its better form was prominent. Permeating all, and most distinctive, was a
                    drollery and whimsicality, which to be effective needs not only a slant of mind but also a cast of
                    countenance.
            Humor of this type comes not from a reservoir, to be drawn from upon occasion; it seeps and trickles,
                    ebbs and flows. Whether the audience be one or a thousand makes no difference; its anticipation in
                    the barber shop is no less keen than at the rise of the toastmaster at the big banquet table or on
                    the lecture platform. When a person approached Esarey he expected something. Maybe he got a squint
                    and a chuckle, and soon both were chuckling—about what, nobody knew. Something outside or
                    inside of them was mildly funny. They might sit and observe a dog. If the dog cocked an eye or
                    frowned, the humorist might begin to speak "Old Dog's" thoughts for him,
                    and they would be plausible thoughts. The conversation might turn to the merits of the weather, what
                    constitutes a cigar, or whether the carp is a fish.36 It would be solemn, the
                    observations profound, and the meaning almost nil. It was the art of small talk without
                    personalities, highly developed. Some went to Esarey, as they expressed it, "to get a lift
                    when feeling low"; others went to sharpen their wits in another round of an argument which had been
                    running for years—yet which no one knew for certain what it was about.
            Esarey's humor is not to be found in his formal writing and only to a degree in his letters
                    and fugitive essays. A few samples only are at hand. In a business letter from 
                        Florida
                     to Mr. Ward Biddle, financial vice-president of the university, he goes on a tangent,
                    as follows: 
                        By the way, I promised to recommend one of my good brothers down town for a janitorship in
                            one of your buildings. He should be good. He has never worked at anything else. His wife has
                            supported him successfully now for some thirty or thirty-five years. He told me he was not
                            able to do the regular work, but if he could get 
                        
                           36 For years Esarey carried on serious arguments against
                                    "high falutin' " fishermen who had to have a lot of
                                    paraphernalia to go hunt sissy fish such as trout and bass, which couldn't
                                    take care of themselves but had to be cultivated.
                     
                             the supervision of a building he could do that very
                            nicely. So you put him in as supervisor of some of the buildings and I will be very much
                            obliged. Sorry I have forgotten his name just now but that doesn't make any
                            difference. 37
                  
                    
            
            And from 
                        Florida
                     a few months before his death, in a letter to Miss Estella Wolf, thanking her for some
                    books, he wrote: 
                        I wish you would wrap up Alec [William A. Alexander, Librarian] somewhat like you did those
                            books and fire him down here. Mark him C.O.D. if you don't have the postage and I
                            will pay the expenses down here. He has no business urgent enough to suggest to him, even,
                            to get out in such weather as you describe. Of course, down here, we are close to the path
                            of the submarines and they might blow him up but like myself, I expect he is worth just as
                            much blown up as he is flat.
                        Incidentally if you laid in an extra pair of rubber heels for your shoes, I would suggest
                            also an extra galosh,—one that would fit either foot so if you have a blow-out
                            with one foot you will still have a pair. I wouldn't undertake to get a whole extra
                            pair, of course, in this emergency.
                        You know our friend Willkie says we have got to travel the hard road from here on. He may
                            know. At any rate my little granddaughter and I go barefoot as much as possible out in the
                            yard and along the adjacent streets so as to toughen our feet. I don't know whether
                            that will be regulated or not in time, but maybe not…. Ain't we in a
                            hell of a fix?38
                  
                    
            
            On the margin of the paper of a correspondence student who was copying passages liberally from his
                    textbook (Esarey's History of Indiana) he wrote: "At times you
                    show a very brilliant style. Continue to cultivate this." On entering a. class in the
                    1920's to face a front row of short skirts and silk stockings (students wore them in those
                    days), he, a life-long temperance advocate, remarked: "It will be understood by this class
                    from the beginning that my weakness is whiskey, not women!" When during the same period the
                    rumor got out (he probably started it himself) that he was a Ku Klux Klanner, and negroes
                    disappeared from his classes for several years, he enjoyed it immensely and teased his negro friends
                    about it. In a class in Indiana history he bore down on the Methodists and the Republicans until
                        partisans
                  
                     37 Logan Esarey to Ward G. Biddle, February 5, 1939.
                  
                     38 Logan Esarey to Miss Estella Wolf, February 20, 1942. For years Dr.
                            Esarey and Miss Wolf maintained a running argument in the library which at times, in its
                            pseudo-seriousness, had the students frightened. Both enjoyed it tremendously.
               
                     of each, who did not know his own predilections, squirmed.
                    Purpose: unknown for certain. In the late summer of 1942 an old friend greeted him on the campus,
                    "Hello, Logan,… where you living now?" (He then had two homes, one in 
                        Florida
                     and one in 
                        Bloomington
                    .) "Oh, I hain't got any home, just wander around."
                    "Don't you still live on South Henderson?" "Yes, sometimes, but
                    there's a little red devil, with pitchfork and sharp tail, living over
                    there.—Don't know what we can do about it, unless the government will come over
                    and straighten things out!" The friend at first thought he was losing his grip, but soon
                    found out otherwise.
            As a raconteur Esarey had all the qualifications—deliberation, dialect,
                    the art of mimicry, and the ability to impress the importance of the story. Aside from the earthy
                    stories of the Lincoln type, he never told a story not acceptable to mixed company of the Victorian
                    era. Favorites most often related were of an old timer, who, overcome by excitement, bad liquor, and
                    political oratory in the campaign of 1912, broke up the meeting by rising and yelling, "
                    'Ray fer Ga-a-rfield! 'Ray fer Ga-a-rfield!" Or of old Uncle Jake, well
                    along in years but young in spirit, who went to the doctor for a check-up. Nothing was wrong, but
                    the doctor and the boys, deciding to have fun, told him he would have to lead a calmer life. A bit
                    later, after having been seen looking on at a barn dance, Uncle Jake was called in by the doctor.
                    Examination now revealed a heart palpitation. Further inquiry brought to light the barn dance.
                    "Do ye think that's what causin' it, doc?" "Certain of
                    it." A pause and a bit of calculation, "Well, doc, if you're sartin
                    that's what's causin' it, gawd dammer, jist let 'er
                    palp."
            Around such a person accumulates a volume of anec-dotage of considerable proportions. And most of it
                    is true. One or two examples must suffice for illustration. No one looked neater than Esarey when
                    haircut, shave, and suit-pressing happened to coincide. Perhaps it was the contrast. At other times
                    trousers and coat of heterogeneous color, no tie (or else a shoe-string bow set northwest by
                    southeast), and ten days' growth of beard made it impossible to distinguish him from the
                    laboring man or farmer. One day he dropped in for Rotary lunch at a neighboring town. Seated next to
                    him was a young man in an olive green uniform.  Esarey inquired
                    whether he was in the army. The young man explained that he was a forester and resettler. Further
                    questions brought out quite a little speech on the nature and importance of his work in
                    rehabilitating southern Indiana. Esarey manifested a naive interest and implied that he would like
                    to have such a job. Whereupon the young man explained that one would have to be a college graduate,
                    be able to handle much paper work, as well as people, and know a lot about trees; in general he
                    deprecated the prospects of a plain farmer's making the grade. Then without previous
                    warning Esarey was called to the speakers' table. There he repeated his conversation with
                    "that young squirt," asked him a lot of questions about Indiana trees, their
                    habits and uses, explained how many trees he had cut down and worked up before the young man had
                    even had a diaper, and admonished him in general about the immorality as well as the futility of
                    trying to educate the hillbillies of southern Indiana in the Tugwell idea. For forty minutes he
                    entertained the group in the true after-dinner style of which he was master. At the end the young
                    man came up, laughingly shook hands, and said, "You sure had me fooled."
            During the early years of the depression, when university salaries were cut and an appropriation
                    reduction was feared, university speakers at Foundation Day meetings over the state were expected to
                    emphasize the direness of the situation. Those in charge in a certain town drew Dr. Esarey. Quite a
                    build-up followed and a respectable crowd assembled. When the speaker appeared it was in
                    mud-splattered leggings, a more or less out-at-the-elbows coat, and other articles in keeping. He
                    talked of starving Armenians and Hindus, of American humanitarian instincts and generosity. Then he
                    brought the picture closer home—told of starving Hoosiers right under our
                    eyes—good, honest, upright, moral, hardworking college professors at the state
                    university. It was a sad and doleful picture that he described. According to one report, those in
                    charge were apologizing and explaining for weeks. There was probably no necessity for this. Esarey
                    seldom misjudged his audience—certainly not a Hoosier audience. Likely the audience knew
                    someone's leg was being pulled—and whose leg it was.
            Esarey enjoyed the friendliness and informality of Rotary. If at times he got his motto confused and
                    solemnly  announced that "He serves best who profits
                    most," it was all in fun. His interest in Masonry, however, was much more than social. The
                    principles of Masonry were his religion. He often called himself "a doubting Methodist, an
                    unregenerate Republican, and a Mason." For years he was a faithful worker in the order and
                    a student of Masonry. Here, too, he was probably the teacher, also. He worked regularly with the
                    Eastern Star and, on the outside, with many young men studying for their degrees and offices. For
                    years he was not only the fraternal faculty sponsor of the Acacia chapter on the campus, but father,
                    step-father, and even "Dutch Uncle" to the boys. In his mind a Mason, like
                    Caesar's wife, had to be beyond suspicion. In 1932, the year of the 
                        Washington
                     bicentennial celebration, Esarey was much in demand with his speech on 
                        Washington
                     and Masonry, and, despite the fact that that was one of his years of bad health, he
                    spared not himself, but travelled from the Appalachians to the Rockies. He was a thirty-second
                    degree Mason. Masonry played a far more important part in Esarey's life than is here
                    indicated, but it is a chapter which cannot well be covered in a general sketch.
            In addition to his fraternal interests Dr. Esarey had the usual number of side interests. Reading, of
                    course, is hard to separate into work and pleasure units, particularly in a historian's
                    life. Classics were ever at hand and, unlike most, he renewed old acquaintances by regular though
                    sketchy rereading. Historical fiction, especially with American settings, he read in quantity.
                    Modern novels and detective stories did not interest him, though he often sampled the
                    "pulp" magazines for their portrayal of the Far West. Newspapers and periodicals
                    of all types were one of the main props of his current as well as historical knowledge.
            Up to mid-life, college sports were more than a perfunctory interest. Football, basketball, and track
                    he followed and attended, in part for themselves, in part because some of "his
                    boys" were engaged. But baseball, his first love—professional and
                    amateur—remained to the end. When, with a pocket full of cigars, Esarey sought a sunny or
                    shady seat on the bleachers, kindred souls gravitated around, and the game would be played with
                    suitable comments and contributions.
            Hunting and fishing carried over from youth. Rabbit  and bird
                    hunting revived when it came time to teach the youngsters. He indulged in a coon hunt now and then
                    when some local friend promised a good one, but his own choice was a fox hunt. Many a night he
                    travelled the hills to listen to the music of hound dogs—a music with which no other can
                    compete in the minds of some. In the art of Ike Walton, Esarey never advanced so far. It was largely
                    a matter of drowning worms. He always pretended, at least, that trying to catch a tarpon on a light
                    line was silly, when good carp could be had with a piece of clothesline and a sapling.
            In music likewise his tastes were simple. His own output, likely to break out almost any time,
                    consisted of the old hymns. After the radio came, the ballads and "mountain music"
                    of the Saturday night "Grand Old Opery" were the favorite program. The Saturday
                    evening card games and the music went together; it was not a good combination for those who took
                    both their bridge and music seriously. Cards had a double attraction: the game itself and the people
                    who played the game. The older games (euchre, seven-up, etc.) were played with certain friends to
                    the end, but bridge probably ranked first in later life. In this as in some other things, Esarey
                    refused to be bound by too many rules. He had card sense, a fine memory, and a philosophical
                    attitude, and he enjoyed matching his wits with others.
            Family life for the Esareys was simple in its externals. As five children grew up, a system of
                    parental laissez faire prevailed in ordinary things—unless someone got
                    seriously out of bounds. Beyond a grounding in the life of the outdoors and good literature read
                    aloud, the members were encouraged to try out different talents. The household abounded with musical
                    instruments, tennis rackets, ball bats, guns, and what not. There was little coddling; self-reliance
                    was the rule. As the youngsters reached high school age they were given the privileges of the family
                    check book on their own responsibility. No attempt was made to influence choice of careers. The five
                    children received ten college degrees, no two in the same subject. (All told, the Esarey's
                    had almost forty years of regular work at Indiana University.) Others than the immediate family were
                    also helped through college. As the grandchildren came along, their grandfather began to establish
                    in the minds of the third generation the love of the outdoors and the continuity which ran back to
                    their pioneer  ancestors. Many hours he spent with them in the
                    woods and in the telling of tales. His best single bit of writing is a simple account prepared for
                    his grandchildren of the round-the-calendar activities of young people in the woods two generations
                    ago; under the title "My Indiana Home" it exists in various lengths. It was read
                    to historical groups and used as a manual in C.C.C. camps. It has been described as a prose-poem on
                    Indiana life. He also wrote several shorter essays and recorded a number of tales handed down from
                    the pioneers.30 Former students corresponded with their old friend from all over
                    the world. When they came to 
                        Bloomington
                    , a personal call was a matter of course. Some of the "boys" became
                    wealthy, famous, important. When they talked to their former teacher, it was inevitably on the old
                    basis—not as master and student, but as minds expecting to give and take.
            The thought naturally arises, how did anyone who so enjoyed people and loafing ever get any work
                    done? (Once, when Esarey left a barber shop, a man who had known him for years remarked,
                    "There goes the biggest loafer in town.") The answer is probably two-fold: the
                    loafing was partly an illusion; and the work was efficient, regular, and unspectacular. Esarey could
                    give the impression of having done a lot of loafing in the six blocks and fifteen minutes between
                    the library and home. For many years he averaged about nine hours a day in the library, in addition
                    to classes and other work. The ordinary social distractions drew but little upon his time; holidays
                    and Sundays were work days too. Then he had the ability to utilize the fragments of time wasted by
                    most. A half hour between a class and a committee meeting might produce the book review or speech
                    outline which he had been mulling over in his mind while "loafing."
            Dr. Esarey's health was never robust; years of work among the dusty newspaper volumes did
                    not help it. By the mid-1920's he was beginning to show the serious effects of pulmonary
                    trouble. He had had some lots in West Palm Beach since 
                        Vincennes
                     days, so he built a small home and took a leave and a rest when energies ran low. By
                    the late 1930's such leaves of necessity became more frequent. The 
                  
                     39 Plans are under way for early publication of a memorial volume of
                            these essays.
               
                    
                    
                  
                            Later Life
                        
                enforced idleness was more or less irksome; there was so much unfinished work to be done.
                    In 1939 he was forced to discontinue active teaching. He officially retired and became professor
                    emeritus, on July 1, 1941.40 Interest in university affairs and history never
                    wavered. Summers were still spent in 
                        Bloomington
                    , and friends and graduate students found that "shop talk" was the one
                    thing that could not be avoided. Though his mind energy was high, his voice energy was low. When
                    last seen by the writer in the late summer of 1942, he said, "Ain't it funny that
                    anybody who has been as prodigal of hot air as I have should suddenly run out of it?" A
                    premature cold snap in September brought a hasty retreat to 
                        Florida
                     sunshine. "For a feller that's been avoiding
                  
                     40 In 1917 he had been made assistant professor, in 1919 associate
                            professor, and in 1926 professor.
               
                     it all his life, it seems strange to have to go look for
                    it." It was the last retreat. Complications developed and he died on September 24, 1942.
            Logan Esarey was the last of the Hoosier historians. He bridged the gap between the pioneer and the
                    modern. In him the traditions and virtues of an earlier period were deep rooted; of inclinations to
                    adapt to the "new order" there were none. He was historian, teacher, humorist, and
                    friend; individualist, non-conformist, Hoosier. As Mr. Justice Holmes said in 1886: 
                        The power of honor to bind men's lives is not less now than it was in the Middle
                            Ages. Now as then it is the breath of our nostrils; it is that for which we live, for which,
                            if need be, we are willing to die. It is that which makes the man whose gift is the power to
                            gain riches sacrifice health and even life to the pursuit. It is that which makes the
                            scholar feel he cannot afford to be rich.
                    
            
         
         
         
            Lincolniana in the Indiana Magazine of History
            
            compiled by Cecil K. Byrd
            Interest in Abraham Lincoln continues to be so general that inquiries are frequently made about the
                    articles that have appeared in the Indiana Magazine of History treating some phase
                    of his life. This list is presented in order to meet that need.
            Articles and Documents
            
               "George W. Julian's Journal: The Assassination of Lincoln," XI
                        (December, 1915), 324–37.
               Edward Murr, "Lincoln in Indiana," XIII (December, 1917), 307–48.
               Edward Murr, "Lincoln in Indiana," XIV (March, 1918), 13–75;
                        (June, 1918), 148–82.
               Charles Zimmerman, "The Origin and Rise of the Republican Party in Indiana from 1854
                        to 1860," XIII (December, 1917), 349–412. This is the second of two
                            articles treating the Rise of the Republican Party. The first in XIII (September, 1917),
                            211–69 covers the period previous to Lincoln's connection with the party
                            in Indiana.
               
               Bess V. Ehrmann, "The Lincoln Inquiry," XXI (March, 1925), 3–17.
               George S. Cottman, "Lincoln in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," XXIV (March, 1928), 1–14.
               Charles Roll, "Indiana's Part in the Nomination of Lincoln in
                        1860," XXV (March, 1929), 1–13.
               Louis A. Warren, "The Family of Hananiah Lincoln in Revolutionary and Pioneer
                        History," XXV (March, 1929), 28–39.
               Louis A. Warren, "Lincoln's Hoosier Schoolmasters," XXVII (June,
                        1931), 104–18.
               Louis A. Warren, "The Shipley Ancestry of Lincoln's Mother," XXIX
                        (September, 1933), 203–12.
               Christopher B. Coleman, "The Lincoln Legend," XXIX (December, 1933),
                        277–86.
               
               R. Gerald McMurtry, "The Influence of Riley's Narrative
                        Upon Abraham Lincoln," XXX (June, 1934), 133–38.
               Louis A. Warren, "The Romance of Thomas Lincoln and Nancy Hanks," XXX
                        (September, 1934), 213–22.
               R. Gerald McMurtry, "Lincoln Knew Shakespeare," XXXI (December, 1935),
                        265–77.
               Sarah S. Pratt, "A Goddess of Liberty," XXXI (March, 1935),
                        37–43. This article describes a Lincoln campaign rally at Delphi, Indiana in 1864.
               Max Ehrman, "Lincoln's Visit to 
                            Terre Haute
                        ," XXXII (March, 1936), 59–61.
               "Lincoln and Ann Rutledge," XXXII (March, 1936), 66–67. This is a
                        letter of R. I. Onstott.
               E. V. Wilcox, a letter supplementing McMurtry's, "Lincoln Knew
                        Shakespeare," XXXII (March, 1936), 80–81.
               Winfred A. Harbison, "Lincoln and Indiana Republicans,
                        1861–1862," XXXIII (September, 1937), 277–303.
               R. Gerald McMurtry, "The Lincoln Migration From 
                            Kentucky
                         to Indiana," XXXIII (December, 1937), 385–421.
               Winfred A. Harbison, "Indiana Republicans and the Re-election of President
                        Lincoln," XXXIV (March, 1938), 42–64.
               John P. Pritchett, "The Croasdale Painting of Lincoln," XXXVII (March,
                        1941), 3–15.
               John F. Cady, "The Religious Environment of Lincoln's Youth,"
                        XXXVII (March, 1941), 16–30.
               Louis A. Warren, "The Lincolns, Hoosier Pioneers," XXXVIII (September,
                        1942), 251–64.
               Reinhard H. Luthin, "Indiana and Lincoln's Rise to the Presidency,"
                        XXXVIII (December, 1942), 385–405.
            
            Comments and Notices
            
               A Lincoln Memorial Tablet (
                            Indianapolis
                        ), III (March, 1909), 45–46.
               The Lincoln Way, XI (June, 1915), 176–77; (September, 1915), 283.
               The Indiana Lincoln Memorial Association, XVIII (September, 1922), 311–12; XIX
                        (June, 1923), 203–04.
               Albion Fellows Bacon, "Lincoln" (poem), XXI (March, 1925), 1–2.
               Comments by the Editor, William O. Lynch, XXVI (March, 1930), 68–70.
               
               The Lincoln Highway Commission, XXVII (September, 1931), 269–70.
               Paul Manship's "Lincoln, The Hoosier Youth," XXVIII (September,
                        1932), 216–17.
               Max Ehrman, "Abraham Lincoln's Sister Sarah," (poem), XXXVII
                        (March, 1941), 64.
            
            Book Reviews
            
               Robert W. McBride, Lincoln's Bodyguard, VII (September, 1911),
                        143–44.
               Nathaniel W. Stephenson, Lincoln, An Account of His Personal Life, Especially of
                            its Springs of Action as Revealed and Deepened by the Ordeal of War, XVIII (December,
                        1918), 394–95.
               Charles W. Moo res, Abraham Lincoln—Lawyer, XIX (December, 1923),
                        373–74.
               Jessie W. Weik, The Real Lincoln, A Portrait, XIX (December, 1923),
                        380–81.
               Ida M. Tarbell, In the Footsteps of the Lincolns, XX (December, 1924),
                        471–72.
               John E. Inglehart and Eugenia Ehrmann, The Environment of Abraham Lincoln in
                            Indiana, with an Account of the DeBruler Family, XXII (June, 1926), 226–27.
               William E. Barton, The Women Lincoln Loved, XXIII (December, 1927),
                        470–71.
               Albert J. Beveridge, Abraham Lincoln, 1809–1858, XXIV (September,
                        1928), 214–16.
               Charles G. Vannest, Lincoln the Hoosier, XXV (June, 1929),
                        177–78.
               Ross F. Lockridge, A. Lincoln, XXVI (June, 1930), 168–70.
               Charles Stoltz, The Tragic Career of Mary Todd Lincoln, XXVIII (March,
                        1932), 62–63.
               Paul M. Angle, Here I Have Lived, XXXII (March, 1936), 76–77.
               Emanuel Hertz, The Hidden Lincoln, from the Letters and Papers of William H.
                            Herndon, XXXIV (March, 1938), 102–03.
               T. Harry Williams, Lincoln and the Radicals, XXXVIII (March, 1942),
                        84–85.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana and Lincoln's Rise to the Presidency
            REINHARD H. LUTHIN
            
            It is a familiar fact that Abraham Lincoln spent part of his early life—from 1816 to
                    1830—in 
                        Spencer County
                    , Indiana. This period, formative years as they were, partially moulded his
                        viewpoint.1 In still another way Indiana exerted influence on the
                    Emancipator's career. This occurred in 1860, when he was elevated to the Presidency of the 
                        United States
                    . In ascending to this exalted office Lincoln was to have the indispensable help of the
                    state in which he had spent part of his youth. For in this critical year the Hoosier State was to be
                    a vital factor in national affairs.
            Indiana had never been rabidly opposed to slavery. The lower counties, settled originally by people
                    from below the Mason and Dixon line, were so strongly filled with southern sympathies that
                    antislavery work there was discouraging. Free Soil meetings were frequently broken up, and the
                    genuine opponents of slavery had almost come to accept the Compromise of 1850.2
                    The passage of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act in 1854, viewed by other northern states as a measure to open up the Northwest to
                    slavery, caused relatively little excitement in Indiana. In the election of 1854 the forces opposed
                    to the dominant proslavery Democratic party were able to unite only on a three-cornered platform
                    taking in antislavery men, prohibitionists, and Know Nothings: "Freedom, Temperance, and
                    our Native Land" were the issues;3 and the Democrats
                    dismissed their opponents as "The Abolition Free-Soil 
                        Maine
                    -Law Native-American Anti-Catholic Anti-
                        Nebraska
                     Party of Indiana."4 The state grew no more 
                  
                     1 For Lincoln's early years in Indiana, see Albert J.
                            Beveridge, Abraham Lincoln, 1809–1858 (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1928), I, 38–99; Bess V. Ehrmann, The Missing Chapter
                                in the Life of Abraham Lincoln (
                                Chicago
                            , 1938); R. Gerald McMurtry, "The Lincoln Migration from 
                                Kentucky
                             to Indiana," in Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIII
                            (1937), 385–421.
                  
                     2 Theodore C. Smith, The Liberty and Free Soil Parties in
                                the Northwest (
                                New York
                            , 1897), 303; John D. Barnhart, "The Southern Influence in the
                            Formation of Indiana," in Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIII
                            (1937), 261–76; Dale Beeler, "The Election of 1852 in Indiana,"
                                ibid., XI (1915), 314–15, and XII (1916), 39.
                  
                     3 Godlove S. Orth to Schuyler Colfax, September 25, 1854, Colfax-Orth
                            Papers (Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     4 Ovando J. Hollister, Life of Schuyler Colfax (
                                New York
                            , 1887), 74.
               
                     radical in its antislavery beliefs during the ensuing years,5 and the Democrats continued to hold sway.6
            
            Nevertheless, Indiana was a political prize for which the anti-Democratic forces were willing to
                    expend much energy. It ranked second among the northwestern states, with a national convention vote
                    of twenty-six and an electoral vote of thirteen, and held fifth place in the Union. Like 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    , it was considered essential to the success of either party in 1860.7
            
            When the Presidential year 1860 opened, the opposition (as those combating the Democrats were called)
                    was still divided into three main groups—the Republicans, the
                    "Americans" (Know Nothings), and the remnants of the old Whig party who still
                    declined to believe that Henry Clay's party was all but dead. Cooperation between them was
                    especially difficult because the large German element in the Republican party disliked the
                    "Americans," and the Old Line Whigs feared the radicalism of the Republicans. But
                    one factor was in their favor—the growing schism in the Democratic ranks. The Indiana
                    Democrats, surfeited with success, had begun to quarrel among themselves. Some were disappointed
                    over meager spoils; some were angry at the party autocrat, 
                        United States
                     Senator Jesse D. Bright; and others were grieved because their party neglected internal
                    improvements and homestead legislation.8
            
            On February 22, 1860, the opposition forces met in mass state convention at 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; the radical name "Republican" was studiously avoided.9 The supporters of Judge Edward Bates, of 
                        Missouri
                    , were on hand, urging him on the Hoosiers as the best possible presidential timber. But
                    their plans for a solid pro-Bates delegation to the Republican 
                  
                     5 Horace Greeley to Schuyler Colfax, May 4, 1857, Greeley-Colfax
                            Papers (
                                New York
                             Public Library, 
                                New York
                             City).
                  
                     6 Charles Kettleborough, "Indiana on the Eye of the Civil
                            War," in Publications, Indiana Historical Society (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1895-), VI (1919), 137–38.
                  
                     7 Charles Roll, "Indiana's Part in the Nomination of
                            Abraham Lincoln for President in 1860," in Indiana Magazine of
                            History, XXV (1929), 1–2.
                  
                     8 Mildred C. Stoler, Influence of the Democratic Element in the
                            Republican Party of 
                                Illinois
                             and Indiana, 1854–1860 (Ph. D. thesis, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1938), 26–31; William W. Wick to William H. English, June
                            5, 1854, William H. English Papers (William Henry Smith Memorial Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     9 Carl F. Brand, "The History of the Know Nothing Party in
                            Indiana, in Indiana, Magazine of History, XVIII (1922),
                        301–02.
               
                     National Convention at 
                        Chicago
                     were doomed to failure, since the radical German-American element would have no part of
                    the 
                        Missouri
                     jurist, who was too conservative, and moreover, had supported the
                    "American" presidential ticket in 1856 and had consorted with Know Nothings in 
                        St. Louis
                    .10 Still, the Bates men were confident that majority sentiment in
                    Indiana was for their favorite.11 The 
                        Indianapolis
                     conclave, besides nominating Henry S. Lane for governor, selected a slate of delegates
                    to represent the state at the 
                        Chicago
                     convention, including four delegates-at-large. The latter were Caleb B. Smith, William
                    T. Otto, Pleasant A. Hackleman, and Daniel D. Pratt.12
            
            Meanwhile, in 
                        Springfield
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , the popular lawyer, citizen, and Republican leader, Abraham Lincoln, was being groomed
                    for the presidential nomination by personal friends and political associates. By April, 1860, plans
                    were afoot by Lincoln's managers to have him selected as 
                        Illinois
                    ' "favorite son" at the Republican National Convention, to
                    meet in 
                        Chicago
                     on May 16. The strategy of Lincoln's sponsors, led by Republican State
                    Chairman Norman B. Judd, of 
                        Illinois
                    , was to gain support also in the three other doubtful states—Indiana, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and 
                        New Jersey
                    .13 Lincoln quietly and tactfully cooperated with Judd and others in
                    the task of attracting support outside 
                        Illinois
                    . He was particularly concerned with Indiana.
            Among his "confidential friends" in Indiana with whom he told a 
                        Connecticut
                     leader to correspond, Lincoln on April 14, 1860, named "J. W.
                    Gordon," of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and "W. T. 
                  
                     10
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, February 23, 1860; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, February 23, 24, 1860. For the Germans'
                            hostility to Bates, see Frank I. Herriott, "The Conference in the Deutsches Haus, 
                                Chicago
                            , May 14–15, 1860," in Transactions of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Society, 1928, in Publications of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Library (
                                Springfield
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            , 1899-), No. 35 (1928), 101–91; 
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Daily 
                                    Missouri
                                 Republican, March 11, 1860; Edgar R. Harlan to 
                                Missouri
                             Historical Society, February 7, 1908, Edward Bates Papers (
                                Missouri
                             Historical Society, 
                                St. Louis
                            ).
                  
                     11 Howard K. Beale (ed.), The Diary of Edward Bates,
                                1859–1866, in American Historical Association Annual Report
                                for 1930 (
                                Washington
                            , 1933), IV, 102.
                  
                     12
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, February 23, 1860.
                  
                     13 William-Baringer, Lincoln's Rise to
                            Power (
                                Boston
                            , 1937), 5–188; Norman B. Judd to Lyman Trumbull, April 2, 1860,
                            Lyman Trumbull Papers (Library of Congress).
               
                     Page," of 
                        Evansville
                    .14 On May 1, Lincoln sent a note to Cyrus M. Allen, of 
                        Vincennes
                    : 
                        Our friend Dubois, and Judge David Davis, of 
                                Bloomington
                             [
                                Illinois
                            ], or both, will meet you at Clinton on the 12th. If you let Usher and Griswold
                            of Terre-Haute know, I think they will cooperate with you.15
                  
                    Cyrus M. Allen had much in common with Lincoln: both had been born in 
                        Kentucky
                    , migrated to Indiana in their youth, and served as Whigs in their respective state
                        legislatures.16 Allen, wrote Lincoln later, "particularly has been
                    my friend."16 The "Usher" mentioned by Lincoln was
                    John P. Usher, with whom he had ridden the circuit as a lawyer.18
            
            On May 2, the day following his letter to Allen, Lincoln dispatched a message to an 
                        Ohio
                     delegate to the 
                        Chicago
                     convention—Richard M. Corwine, 
                        Cincinnati
                     lawyer and onetime partner of Rutherford B. Hayes: 
                        Yours of the 30th ult. is just received. After what you have said, it is perhaps proper I
                            should post you, so far as I am able, as to the "lay of the land".
                        First, I think the 
                                Illinois
                             delegation will be unanimous for me at the start; and no other delegation will.
                            A few individuals in the other delegations would like to go for me at the start, but may be
                            restrained by their colleagues. It is represented to me by men who ought to know, that the
                            whole of Indiana might not be difficult to get. You know how it is in 
                                Ohio
                            . I am certainly not the first choice there; and yet I have not heard that
                            anyone makes any positive objection to me. It is just so everywhere as far as I can
                            perceive. Everywhere, except here in 
                                Illinois
                             and possibly in Indiana, one or another is preferred to me, but there is no
                            positive objection. This is the ground as it now appears. I believe you personally know C.
                            M. Allen of 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana. He is a delegate and has notified me that the entire Indiana
                            delegation will be in 
                                Chicago
                             the same day you name, Saturday, the 12th. My friends, Jesse K. Dubois, our
                            auditor, and Judge David Davis, will probably be there ready to 
                        
                           14 Emanuel Hertz, Abraham Lincoln: A New
                                    Portrait (2 vols., 
                                        New York
                                    , 1931), II, 772.
                        
                           15
                                    Ibid.
                        
                           16 James Sutherland, Biographical Sketches of the
                                        Members of the Forty-First General Assembly of the State of Indiana (
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , 1861), 78–79.
                        
                           17 Ida M. Tarbell, The Life of Abraham
                                    Lincoln (2 vols., 
                                        New York
                                    , 1900), II, 347.
                        
                           18 Thomas Le Grand Harris, "John Palmer
                                    Usher," in Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                                        New York
                                    , 1928–1936), XIX (1936), 134–35.
                     
                             confer with friends from other States. Let me hear from
                            you again when anything occurs.19
                  
                    
            
            Lincoln had some justification for believing that "the whole of Indiana might not be
                    difficult to get." Besides having lived part of his early life in Indiana and having his
                    debates with Stephen A. Douglas in 1858 well received there, he had been cordially welcomed when he
                    spoke at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in September, 1859. More significant, he had much in common with the conservative
                    Indiana "opposition" leaders; like many of them, he had been a Henry Clay Whig.
                    His anti-slavery views were not so strong as to antagonize the abolition-hating elements in the
                    southern counties, who were for Bates. In short, Indiana Republicans could logically support 
                        Illinois
                    ' favorite son—and former Hoosier—if the majority of
                    party leaders considered him "available."20 It was not
                    surprising, therefore, that on April 19, 1860, the state's foremost Republican organ, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, gave to Lincoln's supporters words of encouragement, in an
                    editorial favoring Supreme Court Justice John McLean for President: 
                        It may be that we had better suffer defeat with him [Senator William H. Seward of 
                                New York
                            ] or Chase [Governor of 
                                Ohio
                            ] than achieve victory with McLean or Lincoln, but we can't so see
                            it…. We say Judge McLean—and Mr. Lincoln of 
                                Illinois
                             stands in very much the same relation—presents a strong claim on the
                            attention of the Republican Convention…. Next to Judge McLean, we believe Abram
                                [sic] Lincoln of 
                                Illinois
                             presents the best combination of qualities as a candidate and officer.21
                  
                    
            
            Lincoln was second choice of Indiana's most widely circulated Republican newspaper! And the
                    Lincoln people in 
                        Illinois
                     put the above editorial to effective use. On May 11—the day following the
                    adjournment of the 
                        Illinois
                     Republican Convention at 
                        Decatur
                    , at which Lincoln's home state delegation was instructed for him22—there appeared in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal an anonymous letter to the editor, dated 
                  
                     19 Daniel J. Ryan, "Lincoln and 
                                Ohio
                            ," in Publications, 
                                Ohio
                             Archaeological and Historical Society (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     ,
                            1887-), XXXII (1923), 117–18. For material on Corwine, see Charles R. Williams
                            (ed.), Diary and Letters of 
                                    Rutherford
                                 Birchard Hayes (5 vols., 
                                Columbus
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , 1922–1926), I (1922), 458, 480, 481, 489, and 540.
                  
                     20 Roll, "Indiana's Part in Nomination of
                            Lincoln," in Indiana Magazine of History, XXV, 4–5.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, April 19, 1860.
                  
                     22 Isaac N. Arnold, The Life of Abraham Lincoln (
                                Chicago
                            , 1885), 161–62.
               
                     "
                        Springfield
                    , Ill., May 8, 1860." This well-timed letter assured the Journal that its mention of McLean and Lincoln for the Republican presidential nomination had
                    been warmly received in 
                        Illinois
                    . The letter, adroitly worded, disposed of Bates as unsatisfactory to the large German
                    element in the party and was careful not to offend the McLean supporters: 
                        Of course, Lincoln is decidedly the first choice of 
                                Illinois
                            … Should Judge McLean, however, be thought more available, 
                                Illinois
                             will show her confidence in the veteran and well tried statesman, by a generous
                            and enthusiastic support.23
                  
                    
            
            On May 16 the Republicans assembled in national convention at. 
                        Chicago
                    . The Hoosier delegation was early on the scene. In the selection of a standard-bearer,
                    the more practical party leaders emphasized the necessity of satisfying Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and 
                        New Jersey
                    .24 And herein lay Lincoln's strength.
            Lincoln's managers at 
                        Chicago
                     had as their prime objective the support of the four "doubtful"
                    states. They already had 
                        Illinois
                    , naturally. Indiana was the first of the other three "doubtfuls" the 
                        Illinois
                     men approached.
            Although there was considerable sentiment for Edward Bates—Congressman Schuyler Colfax, of 
                        South Bend
                    , and John D. Defrees, 
                        Indianapolis
                     editor-politician, were working valiantly for the Missourian25—others among the Hoosiers had open minds.26 One
                    delegate-at-large, Pleasant A. Hackleman, held this viewpoint: 
                        If we can ascertain who are the favorites with our people, and who would be most likely to
                            carry the four doubtful States of N. J., Penn., Ind., and Ill. we ought to act as a unit at 
                                Chicago
                            …. Seward, Lincoln and Bates all have their friends.27
                  
                    But it soon developed that Seward, although having more strength in the national convention
                    than any other contender, had few friends in Indiana; he symbolized antislavery radicalism.28 Henry S. Lane, who had been nominated by the 
                  
                     23
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, May 11, 1860.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Boston
                            
                            Daily Advertiser, May 15, 1860.
                  
                     25 Hollister, Life of Colfax, 147–48; Dr.
                            John S. Bobbs to Simon Cameron, May 19, 1860, Simon Cameron Papers (Library of Congress).
                  
                     26 Alexander H. Conner to Daniel D. Pratt, April 23, 1860, Daniel D.
                            Pratt Papers (Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     27 Pleasant A. Hackelman to Daniel D. Pratt, March 23, 1860, Pratt
                            Papers.
                  
                     28 Dawson's Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Daily Times, April 12, 18, and May 2, 1860.
               
                     Republicans for governor of Indiana, was determined that his
                    campaign for election must not be jeopardized by having an extreme antislavery man head the national
                    ticket. Lane went among the delegates from other states, insisting that Seward could not carry
                    Indiana in November.29 Mrs. Lane reminisced later: 
                        I was with my husband in 
                                Chicago
                            , and may tell you now… that Thurlow Weed, in his anxiety for the
                            success of Seward, took Mr. Lane out one evening and pleaded with him to lead the Indiana
                            delegation over to Seward, saying they would send enough money from 
                                New York
                             to ensure his election for Governor, and carry the State later for the 
                                New York
                             candidate.
                        His proposal was indignantly rejected.30
                  
                    
            
            Indiana's choice narrowed down to Bates or Lincoln. And the determination of the way the
                    state would vote rested primarily with Caleb B. Smith and his friends.
            Smith had served in Congress with Lincoln during the session of 1847–1849. Like Lincoln,
                    he had been a Whig who had finally entered the Republican ranks. Having succeeded in being appointed
                    one of Indiana's four delegates-at-large and chairman of the delegation, Smith decided to
                    throw his influence behind the 
                        Illinois
                     contender; he effectively stifled the pro-Bates element at the Hoosier caucus held in 
                        Chicago
                     on May 15, despite the efforts of Colfax and others to swing the delegation to the 
                        Missouri
                     jurist.31 One Lincoln worker, Joseph Medill, editor of the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Press & Tribune, reported to his associates that half of the Indiana
                    delegation had been won over even before the national convention convened.32
                    Medill might have added that the entire delegation was already in the Lincoln column.
            In attracting the Indiana delegation to Lincoln, strong evidence appears that Judge David Davis and
                    other Lincoln managers promised Smith a cabinet position in the event of Lincoln's
                    nomination and election to the Presidency. Lincoln's 
                        Bloomington
                     friend and Davis' fellow-townsman, Jesse W. Fell (then secretary of the 
                        Illinois
                     State Central Committee), in recommending that cabinet positions be given to 
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., May 16, 1860; Alexander K. McClure, Abraham. Lincoln
                                and Men of War-Times (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1892), 24–35.
                  
                     30 McClure, Abraham Lincoln and Men of War-Times,
                            30–31n.
                  
                     31 Louis J. Bailey, "Caleb Blood Smith," in Indiana Magazine of History, XXIX (1933), 220–27; 
                                Indianapolis
                             Daily Journal, May 16 and 17, 1860; 
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Daily 
                                    Missouri
                                 Republican, May 16, 1860.
                  
                     32 Tarbell, Life of Abraham Lincoln, I, 347n.
               
                     Indiana and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , wrote Lincoln, following the latter's election: 
                        Such a disposition of favors was a good deal spoken of at 
                                Chicago
                            , in a quiet way, though of course no improper pledges—so far as I
                            know or believe—were asked—as I am very sure they were not, and could
                            not be given.33
                  
                    
            
            Lincoln's law partner, William H. Herndon, maintained, however, that at 
                        Chicago
                    , Judge Davis promised Smith a cabinet position in return for Indiana's support
                    of Lincoln for the nomination.34 Charles Gibson, a Bates manager at the 
                        Chicago
                     convention, made the same assertion regarding Davis' promise to Smith.35 Moreover, Davis' biographer has located among the Judge's
                    private papers two letters written by Smith which indicate that a "bargain" was
                        made.36 In addition, William T. Otto, one of Indiana's four
                    delegates-at-large at 
                        Chicago
                    , confided to a friend, Mrs. Gresham, that Smith was offered a cabinet post while the 
                        Chicago
                     conclave was in session: 
                        I have … frequently heard Judge Otto tell how Caleb B. Smith imposed on Judge
                            David Davis and Joseph Medill when the latter during the convention was pledging everything
                            in sight to insure Mr. Lincoln's nomination. "Mr. Smith," Judge
                            Otto said, "made Judge Davis believe that the Indiana delegation would go to Seward
                            unless Smith was promised a place in the cabinet; when the truth was that none of us cared
                            for Smith, and after we got to 
                                Chicago
                             and looked over the ground all were for Lincoln."37
                  
                    
            
            And William P. Fishback, friend and law partner of Republican State Chairman Alexander H. Conner of
                    Indiana, later wrote his brother confidentially: "There was a determination and promise on
                    the part of Mr. Lincoln to give Mr. C. B. Smith a place in his Cabinet.38 Following Lincoln's election 
                  
                     33 Jesse W. Fell to Abraham Lincoln, January 2, 1861, Jesse W. Fell
                            Papers. Copy in possession of Dr. Harry E. Pratt of 
                                Springfield
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            .
                  
                     34 Paul M. Angle (ed.), Herndon's Life of
                                Lincoln (
                                New York
                            , 1930), 381.
                  
                     35 Charles Gibson, "Edward Bates," in 
                                Missouri
                             Historical Society Collections (
                        St. Louis, Missouri
                     , 1880-), II (1900), 55.
                  
                     36 Caleb B. Smith to David Davis, January 31, February 5, 1861, in
                            David Davis, 1815–1886, by Harry E. Pratt (Ph. D. thesis, University of 
                                Illinois
                            , 
                                Urbana
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            , 1930), 77.
                  
                     37 Matilda Gresham, Life of Walter Quintin Gresham
                            (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), I, 110–11.
                  
                     38 William P. Fishback to his brother "Tip," January
                            19, 1861, photostat, miscellaneous papers (Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ). The original is believed to be in the possession of Mrs. Charles D. Herron,
                            of 
                                Washington
                            , D. C.
               
                     to the Presidency, Smith himself wrote a
                    "confidential" letter to a 
                        Massachusetts
                     friend: 
                  
                     
                        I should not decline a seat in Mr. Lincoln's Cabinet, and although I have no
                                    promises from any one authorized to speak for Mr. Lincoln I have reason to believe
                                    that a place will be offered me. I am very confident that if a
                                    place is offered any person from Indiana it will be offered to me. I do not wish to
                                    be Postmaster-General but if I go into the Cabinet, would much prefer the Interior
                                        Department.39
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            On May 15—the day before the national convention assembled at 
                        Chicago
                    —it was recognized by those on the scene that the Lincolnites had added
                    practically the entire Hoosier delegation to the 
                        Illinois
                     group as a strong nucleus for the Lincoln cause. Under that date an 
                        Indianapolis
                     correspondent sent word from 
                        Chicago
                    : "
                        Illinois
                     is for Lincoln always, and all the time. Indiana leans in the same direction. At a
                    caucus of the delegates held this morning, the expression was in the main for Lincoln."40 Another reported: "
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana are for Abe Lincoln."41
            
            With Lincoln reasonably assured of Indiana and certain of his own 
                        Illinois
                    , he was in a more formidable position than any other candidate save Seward. The support
                    of these two pivotal states now impressed the New 
                        England
                     states with Lincoln's strength.42 The chairman of the
                    pro-Seward 
                        Massachusetts
                     delegation, John A. Andrew, began to fear Republican defeat in November if Seward were
                    nominated. Accordingly, on Tuesday evening, May 15, a committee from 
                        Massachusetts
                     visited the delegates from the four "doubtful" states. Andrew as
                    spokesman pointed out that all desired victory in the general election and that he and other New
                    Englanders were for Seward, but that they "preferred the success of the party rather than
                    the election of any particular individual."43 Andrew, conceding that
                    Seward could not carry Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and 
                        New Jersey
                    , suggested that delegates from those states concentrate their 
                  
                     39 Caleb B. Smith to William Schouler,
                            "confidential," December 1, 1860, William Schouler Papers (
                                Massachusetts
                             Historical Society, 
                                Boston
                            , 
                                Massachusetts
                            ).
                  
                     40
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, May 16, 1860.
                  
                     41
                            
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Daily 
                                    Missouri
                                 Republican, May 16, 1860.
                  
                     43 William Jayne to Lyman Trumbull, May 20, 1860, Trumbull Papers.
                  
                     43 Thomas H. Dudley, "The Inside Facts of Lincoln's
                            Nomination," in The Century Magazine (
                                New York
                            , 1881–1930), XL (1890), 477–79, see 478.
               
                     strength upon a single candidate for President.44 Andrew's advice impressed the delegates from the four states. Bay State men
                    accordingly communicated with those states, requesting them to designate three men who, in their
                    opinion, could carry their respective states.45
            
            Indiana delegates were of distinct service to Lincoln in attracting the huge 
                        Pennsylvania
                     delegation, with its bloc of fifty-four convention votes—second only to 
                        New York
                    . The Keystone State had a "favorite son" candidate in 
                        United States
                     Senator Simon Cameron, but Cameron could not command united support even in his home
                    state delegation. Henry S. Lane, still determined that the radical Seward should not be nominated
                    lest he be handicapped in his coming gubernatorial campaign in conservative Indiana, cooperated with
                    Andrew G. Curtin, Republican candidate for governor of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , who was as fearful of his own chances in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     as was Lane in Indiana. At 
                        Chicago
                    , Lane and Curtin were in constant consultation and mapped anti-Seward strategy. Largely
                    through their efforts, the pro-Lincoln Indiana and the anti-Seward 
                        Pennsylvania
                     delegations met on Thursday evening, May 17—the day before balloting for
                    President began.46 The 
                        Pennsylvania
                     delegation caucused until the morning hours. "There were hundreds of
                    Pennsylvanians, Indianians and Illinoisans, who never closed their eyes that night," wrote
                    one observer. "I saw Henry S. Lane at one o'clock, pale and haggard, with cane
                    under his arm, walking as if for a wager, from one caucus-room to another, at the Tremont
                        House."47 Curtin was on the same mission. After prolonged wrangling
                    as to whom to support, the Pennsylvanians decided to go for Lincoln over Bates.48 At this same midnight caucus the Lincolnites were aided by Caleb B. Smith, Henry S. Lane,
                    and other 
                  
                     44
                            Ibid.
                  
                     45 Herman Kreismann to Elihu B. Washburne, May 16, 1860, Elihu B.
                            Washburne Papers (Library of Congress); 
                                Boston
                            
                            Daily Advertiser, May 17, 1860; 
                                Springfield
                            , 
                                Massachusetts
                            , Republican, May 17, 1860.
                  
                     46 McClure, Abraham Lincoln and Men of War-Times,
                            30–37.
                  
                     47 Murat Halstead, Caucuses of 1860: A History of the
                                National Political Conventions of the Current Presidential Campaign (
                                Columbus
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , 1860), 142.
                  
                     48 Stanton L. Davis, 
                        
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 Politics, 1800–1863 (
                                Cleveland
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , 1935), 105.
               
                     Hoosiers in attracting most of the delegates from the fourth
                    "doubtful" state, 
                        New Jersey
                    .49
            
            With Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     lined up for Lincoln, and with 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        New Jersey
                     agreeing to go for him after casting complimentary first ballots for their respective
                    favorite sons, Cameron and William L. Dayton, the Lincoln managers were in a position strong enough
                    to combat Seward's support in the 
                        New York
                    , 
                        Minnesota
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    , and 
                        Wisconsin
                     delegations and scattered support in 
                        Massachusetts
                     and 
                        Maine
                    . The encouraged Lincolnites now worked among the smaller state delegations on this day,
                    the 18th, when balloting for President started. Wrote one delegate at this juncture: "Ind. 
                        Illinois
                     & Pa. have been here in force determined to accomplish the defeat of
                        Seward."50 He might have added that there was now the positive
                    object of nominating Lincoln. Murat Halstead, observing events carefully, declared that even while
                    the midnight caucuses were in progress, 
                        Henry S. Lane… in connection with others… had been operating to bring
                            the Vermonters and Virginians to the point of deserting Seward. 
                                Vermont
                             would certainly cast her electoral vote for any candidate who could be
                            nominated, and 
                                Virginia
                             as certainly against any [such] candidate. The object was to bring the
                            delegates of those States to consider success rather than Seward, and join with the
                            battle-ground States—as 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , 
                                New Jersey
                            , Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                             insisted upon calling themselves. This was finally done, the fatal break in
                            Seward's strength having been made in 
                                Vermont
                             and 
                                Virginia
                            , destroying at once, when it appeared, his power in the New 
                                England
                             and the slave State delegations….
                        The cry of a want of availability which was from the start raised against Seward, now took a
                            more definite form than heretofore…. Henry S. Lane, candidate in
                            Indiana… asserted hundreds of times that the nomination of Seward would be death
                            to him, and that he might in that case just as well give up the canvass. He did not feel
                            like expending his time and money in carrying on a hopeless campaign, and would be disposed
                            to abandon the contest.51
                  
                    
            
            As the convention assembled on the morning of May 18, an enthusiastic Lincoln supporter exulted:
                    "Lincoln will be nominated. I think he is the second choice of everybody."52
            
            
               
                  49 Reminiscences of Charles Perrin Smith, MS., 174–75. This
                        manuscript is in the 
                            New Jersey
                         State Library, Trenton, 
                            New Jersey
                        .
               
                  50 Robert Hosea to Salmon P. Chase, May 18, 1860, Salmon P. Chase Papers
                        (Library of Congress).
               
                  51 Halstead, Caucuses of 1860, pp. 142, 143.
               
                  52 J. F. Farnsworth to Elihu B. Washburne, telegram, May 18, 1860,
                        Washburne Papers.
            
            
            The convention was called to order. Breathless attention was focused on the dais. The roll of states
                    began. Seward was nominated for consideration, and the applause was
                    "enthusiastic." Judd, of 
                        Illinois
                    , presented Lincoln's name, and the "response was prodigious, rising
                    and raging far beyond the Seward shriek." Then, "Caleb B. Smith seconding the
                    nomination of Lincoln, the response was absolutely terrific."53After
                    Bates and the lesser candidates were put in nomination, the convention proceeded to ballot. When
                    called, Indiana cast her twenty-six votes for 
                        Illinois
                    ' favorite. "This solid vote," it was related, "was
                    a startler, and the keen little eyes of Henry S. Lane glittered as it was given. He was responsible
                    for it."54 That is, he was largely responsible for it—along
                    with Caleb B. Smith. A week later Lincoln himself was to thank Smith: "I am indeed, much
                    indebted to. Indiana; and, as my home friends tell me, much to you personally."55 Lincoln was named as Republican candidate for President on the third ballot.
                    Considerations of political expediency and desire for victory in November, grouped together under
                    the popular term "availability"—aided by the skillful strategy of
                    Lincoln's supporters in 
                        Illinois
                    , Indiana, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and the lesser states—turned the tide in his favor. Of Indiana's
                    role at 
                        Chicago
                     a delegate from 
                        Indianapolis
                     related: 
                        Mr. Lincoln owes his nomination to a prevailing opposition to Mr. Seward among the
                            delegations from the Free States bordering on the slave states, on the grounds of
                            expediency. The delegates from Indiana were divided in their preferences…. An
                            opinion gathered strength that Mr. Seward would be nominated on the first or second ballot,
                            and our delegation, while they were divided into those who preferred Mr. Bates, Mr. Lincoln,
                            Mr. Cameron, Mr. Seward and Mr. McLean, were, with two exceptions, unanimously opposed to
                            him, on the grounds of his being the subject of too great prejudice with our people. It was
                            then moved that our delegation vote as a unit for Mr. Lincoln in order to defeat Mr.
                            Seward…. Indiana having no candidate of her own was in a position to make her
                            vote decisive.56
                  
                    
            
            Indiana and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     were particularly courted by all parties in the campaign. Each was an
                    "October" state, 
                  
                     53 Halstead, Caucuses of 1860, p. 144.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., 146.
                  
                     55 John G. Nicolay and John Hay (eds.), Complete Works of
                                Abraham Lincoln (12 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1894), VI, 21.
                  
                     56 Dr. John S. Bobbs to Simon Cameron, May 19, 1860, Cameron
                        Papers.
               
                     holding its gubernatorial contest one month before the
                    presidential election. Each had been carried by Buchanan in 1856 and thus decided the Presidency
                    against the Republican standard-bearer, Frémont. "Should Indiana and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     go right in October," wrote John D. Defrees, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , "the Presidential election in November will go by default."57 Thus all groups exerted titanic efforts in the Hoosier and Keystone
                        states.58 Indiana remained conservative in its antislavery views, and the
                    ardent Republican Horace Greeley declared: "Indiana, after 
                        California
                    , is our most doubtful Free State."59
            
            The Indiana Republicans contended that they were fighting for free homes for the homeless, for the
                    laborer against the aristocrat, for a Pacific railroad, for the extension of freedom, for the
                    preservation of the Union, to rescue the government from the "corrupt" Democrats,
                    to put "Old Abe" in the chair, against a slave code, against Douglas'
                    squatter sovereignty, and against polygamy (a thrust at the Mormons in 
                        Utah
                    ). Lincoln was presented as a moderate, whereupon the Democrats stigmatized all
                    Republicans as abolitionists. The Democratic central organ, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    State Sentinel, set the pace in the onslaught on Lincoln.60
            
            Lincoln, watching developments from his home in 
                        Springfield
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , became concerned. To Caleb B. Smith he wrote: 
                        From present appearance we might succeed in the general result, without Indiana; but with it, failure is scarcely possible. Therefore put in your best efforts.
                            I see by the despatches that Mr. Clay had a rousing meeting at 
                                Vincennes
                            .61
                  
                     To the said 
                        Clay
                    —Cassius M. Clay, of 
                        Kentucky
                    , who was stumping Indiana—Lincoln sent word in July: 
                        I see by the papers, and also hear from Mr. Nicolay, who saw you at Terre-Haute, that you are
                            filling a list of speaking appointments in Indiana. I sincerely thank you for this; and I
                            shall be still further 
                        
                           57 John D. Defrees to Thurlow Weed, August 25, 1860, Thurlow
                                    Weed Papers (University of 
                                        Rochester
                                     Library, 
                                        Rochester
                                    , 
                                        New York
                                    ).
                        
                           58 David Davis to Thurlow Weed, September 11, 1860, ibid.
                        
                           59 Horace Greeley to Logan U. Reavis, August 21, 1860, Logan
                                    U. Reavis Papers (
                                        Chicago
                                     Historical Society).
                        
                           60 Charles Zimmerman, "The Origin and Rise of the
                                    Republican Party in Indiana from 1854 to 1860," in Indiana
                                        Magazine of History, XIII (1917), 405–08; 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    
                                    Daily State Sentinel, May 26, 1860.
                        
                           61 Nicolay and Hay, Complete Works of Abraham
                                        Lincoln, VI, 47.
                     
                             obliged if you will at the close of the tour, drop me a
                            line, giving your impression of our prospects in that state.62
                  
                    
            
            The Republicans decided on August 29 for the grand rally for Lincoln at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Fifty thousand crowded into the city. Huge processions of campaign
                    clubs—"Wide-Awakes" and "Rail-Maulers"—led crowds to hear
                    Caleb B. Smith, Henry S. Lane, and conservatives from other states speak on the necessity for
                    electing Lincoln. In the evening a large torchlight procession was staged.63
            
            Lincoln's friend and manager, Judge David Davis, was sent into Indiana by an alarmed
                    Republican National Committee. Returning home in late August, he wrote Lincoln: "I got home
                    yesterday having gone through Indiana at the request of the National Committee. Will be down Monday
                    and report. I should like two or three hours conversation."64 No record
                    is extant of Davis' conference with Lincoln about the critical Indiana situation, but a few
                    weeks later we find the Judge writing the 
                        New York
                     leader, Thurlow Weed: 
                        Am in receipt of a letter from Caleb B. Smith of Indiana. He says "that the greatest
                            fears I have in reference to our state election arise from the efforts now making to induce
                            the Bell men to vote the Dem. State ticket. The 
                                Louisville
                             Journal is appealing to the Bell men in this state [Indiana] to defeat the
                            Republican State ticket, as the prestige of the success will give the state to Lincoln in
                            November. This paper circulates extensively in Southern Indiana, where the Bell men mostly
                            live, & I fear that many of them will follow its advice. I have very strong faith
                            that we shall carry the State in Oct. I do not think it possible to give half the Bell men
                            to the Democratic ticket, & I think we can stand this."
                            Still, Indiana is in great danger.
                        I hope the National Committee will do all they can for the State. The whole money they asked
                            (& more if it can be raised) should be sent at once. Men work better
                                with money in hand.
                        The first order of German speakers are needed in Indiana….
                        I believe in God's 
                                Providence
                             in this Election, but at the same time we should keep our powder dry.65
                  
                    
            
            The veteran leader of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Defrees, had previously appealed to Weed: "To injure our prospects in
                    November 
                  
                     62 Ehrmann, The Missing Chapter in the Life of
                            Lincoln, 3–4.
                  
                     63 Zimmerman, "Origin and Rise of the Republican Party in
                            Indiana," in Indiana Magazine of History, XIII, 394.
                  
                     64 David Davis to Abraham Lincoln, August 24, 1860. Copy in possession
                            of Dr. Harry E. Pratt, of 
                                Springfield
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            . The original is supposed to be in possession of the Lincoln Tomb, 
                                Springfield
                            .
                  
                     65 David Davis to Thurlow Weed, September 11, 1860, Weed
                        Papers.
               
                    I am afraid a majority of Bell men will vote against us in our
                    State in October…. We need money very much."66 Certainly the
                    fear was genuine that the conservative supporters of John Bell, the Constitutional Union nominee for
                    President, would vote for the Democratic gubernatorial candidate, Thomas A. Hendricks, and thus
                    defeat Lane for governor in October. If such a thing occurred, the Republicans were apprehensive of
                    its psychological effect on Lincoln's chances in Indiana in November.
            Judge Davis, in emphasizing the necessity for competent German orators, was cognizant of a delicate
                    situation in Indiana—the Know Nothing tradition. Even as late as 1860, Indiana still
                    contained nativistic influences. The Indiana Republican party had recruited much of its membership
                    from former "Americans" and antiforeign conservative Whigs, and was at this time
                    appealing to others of these groups to come into the Lincoln camp.67 The
                    Democrats saw in all this a fertile issue. To alienate the Teutonic element from the Republican
                    standard, the Democrats resurrected the 
                        Massachusetts
                     "Two Year" Amendment of 1859, so obnoxious to all naturalized groups.
                    Fort 
                        Wayne
                    's Democratic mouthpiece declared: 
                        Who passed the law in 
                                Massachusetts
                             preventing foreign-born citizens from voting, when duly naturalized according
                            to the Constitution of the 
                                United States
                            ? The Know Nothings and the Republicans.68
                  
                    In their quest for the German vote the Democrats had still another
                    issue—prohibition. Most of the "
                        Maine
                     Law" advocates had finally found their way into the Republican party.
                    Moreover, they charged Lane—and justly so—with having supported the antiliquor
                    law passed by the Indiana Legislature of 1855 and later declared unconstitutional.69
            
            The Republicans, to hold the Indiana Germans, pointed to President Buchanan's veto of a
                    homestead bill as proof 
                  
                     66 John D. Defrees to Thurlow Weed, August 25, 1860, ibid.
                  
                     67 William K. Edwards to Richard W. Thompson, June 4, 1860; R. N. Lamb
                            and Frederick J. Waldo to Richard W. Thompson, August 11, 1860, Richard W. Thompson Papers
                            (Lincoln National Life Foundation, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana); Harry J. Carman and Reinhard H. Luthin, "Some Aspects of
                            the Know Nothing Movement Reconsidered," in The South Atlantic
                                Quarterly (Durham, 
                                North Carolina
                            , 1902-), XXXIX (1940), 213–34, see 229–30.
                  
                     68 Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Sentinel, June 30, 1860.
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., September 8, 15, and 22, 1860.
               
                     that the Democrats were hostile to free land.70 Finally, Republican State Chairman Alexander H. Conner, in desperation, called upon Carl
                    Schurz to stump Indiana.71 The 
                        Wisconsin
                     German leader, who made an extensive tour, extolling the virtues of Lincoln and Lane,
                    was enthusiastically received by the Teutonic element in the Hoosier State.72 In
                    late August, Defrees wrote Thurlow Weed: 
                        The amount sent by the National Committee (—2,000) has been exhausted in the
                            payment of Carl Schurz and other speakers and on a few German Republican papers. Could you
                            not influence the Committee to send a few thousand more? It ought to be sent immediately to
                            A. H. Conner, the Chairman of our Committee, who will use it faithfully
                            and efficiently.73
                  
                    Later Schurz asserted that for his services he had received "—500. from
                        Indiana."74
            
            With the German element fairly certain to go for Lane in the October election, another worry loomed
                    for the Republicans—the abolitionist tinge that the Democrats had placed on them.
                    Throughout September the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    State Sentinel continued its assault on Lincoln,75 and other
                    Democratic organs persistently appealed to "conservative, Union-loving citizens of
                    Indiana" to defeat Lane and elect Hendricks governor.76 But suddenly a
                    ray of hope appeared—the split in the Democratic party, more particularly, the feud
                    between Lincoln's "northern" Democratic opponent for the Presidency,
                    Stephen A. Douglas, and Indiana's senior 
                        United States
                     Senator, Jesse D. Bright.
            The personal and political enmity between Douglas and Bright had started several years before, when
                    the Little Giant became infuriated at President Buchanan's action in making the Indiana
                    Senator the chief patronage-dispenser for the Northwest—an enmity made more bitter in
                    1857–1858 when Douglas broke with Buchanan over the President's insistence on
                    having Congress adopt the proslavery 
                  
                     70 Dawson's Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Daily Times, June 28, 1860.
                  
                     71 Alexander H. Conner to Daniel D. Pratt, July 26, 1860, Pratt
                            Papers.
                  
                     72 Dawson's Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Daily Times, June 29, 1860.
                  
                     73 John D. Defrees to Thurlow Weed, August 25, 1860, Weed Papers.
                  
                     74 Carl Schurz to John P. Sanderson, December 22, 1860, Carl Schurz
                            Papers (Library of Congress).
                  
                     75
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, September 10, 1860.
                  
                     76 Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Sentinel, September 15, 1860.
               
                     Lecompton Constitution for 
                        Kansas
                    . Bright remained doggedly loyal to the President and denounced Douglas at every turn.
                    More bad blood was brewed between the two when Douglas voted against the seating in the Senate of
                    Bright and Graham N. Fitch, whose election was being contested by the Republicans. The wounds had
                    not healed by 1860. The pro-Douglas, or "anti-Lecompton" forces captured control
                    of the state Democratic convention at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in January. Then Bright fought tenaciously to block Douglas' nomination for
                    President at 
                        Charleston
                    . When Douglas was named for President by the later 
                        Baltimore
                     convention, unrestricted warfare was on between the two Democratic factions.77 The Republicans were in high glee, one leader reporting: 
                        Senator Bright said last week that if Douglas was nominated he would take the stump against
                            him in Indiana… [and] that if the contest was to be between Douglas and Lincoln
                            he would vote for the latter.78
                  
                    Bright, long the generalissimo of the Hoosier Democracy and Buchanan's northwestern
                    swordsman, made good his threat. He placed his organization behind the candidacies of John C.
                    Breckinridge, the "southern" Democratic nominee for President, and his running
                    mate, Senator Joseph Lane, of 
                        Oregon
                    . Bright's biographer concludes: "Bright was too shrewd a politician
                    to believe that Breckinridge would carry the state; his paramount object was to impair
                    Douglas' chance to the full extent of his ability."79
            
            A Breckinridge-Lane convention met on July 31. Bright sounded the keynote: 
                        I go into this fight now under the banner of those heroes and
                            statesmen—Breckinridge and Lane…. The names of Douglas and Johnson
                            were forced upon the party by a fragment of a packed National 
                        
                           77 Stephen A. Douglas to Samuel Treat, February 5, 1857,
                                    February 28, 1858, Samuel Treat Papers (
                                        Missouri
                                     Historical Society, 
                                        St. Louis
                                    ); Jesse D. Bright to Allen Hamilton, December (no day listed), 1858,
                                    Allen Hamilton Papers (Indiana State Library, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    ); George F. Milton, The Eve of Conflict: Stephen A.
                                        Douglas and the Needless War (
                                        Boston
                                    , 1934), 259, 275, 278, 406, 420, 430, 469, and 478; Charles B. Murphy,
                                    "The Political Career of Jesse D. Bright," in Publications, Indiana Historical Society, X (1931), 128–34.
                        
                           78John Woodruff to Arthur B. Calif, Private,
                                    June 18, 1860, Arthur B. Calif Papers (John Hay Library, 
                                        Brown
                                     University, 
                                        Providence
                                    , 
                                        Rhode Island
                                    ).
                        
                           79 Murphy, "Jesse D. Bright," in
                                    Publications, Indiana Historical Society, X, 134.
                     
                             Convention…. Douglas! The President knows
                            him too well to reward his treason by giving him aid and comfort.80
                  
                    The Bright forces started a tri-weekly campaign paper, the Old Line Guard,
                    whose editorial policy was more strongly anti-Douglas than anti-Lincoln. The "Joe Lane
                    Rangers" were organized to combat the Lincoln "Wide-Awakes" and
                    especially the Douglas "Little Giants."81 The Old
                        Line Guard's arguments against Lincoln were mild, compared to its scorching
                    editorials against Douglas. It portrayed the Republican standard-bearer not as a mauler of rails but
                    as a grog-shop keeper who "sold red-eye at a picayune a nip"82—a reference to Lincoln's youthful years in 
                        New Salem
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , when he retailed liquor with other merchandise.
            In early September, Bright, with his colleague Senator Fitch, Congressman William H. English, and
                    others took the stump for Breckinridge and Joe Lane.83 It was soon recognized
                    that Indiana would be carried by Lincoln or Douglas; neither Breckinridge nor Bell cut a large
                    figure. To vote the Breckinridge ticket was soon viewed as strengthening Lincoln's
                        chances.84 The embittered Bright told one audience: 
                        If I were to tell you that I believe that we are going to carry the State, I should tell you
                            that which I don't believe…. Let the breach be as wide as possible
                            between us; and let the sound and rotten men of the Democratic party be separated.85
                  
                    To make matters gloomier for the Democrats supporting Douglas, the Breckinridge State
                    Central Committee decided that it would be inexpedient to place a state ticket in the field. This
                    left the Breckinridge men free to support whomever they pleased at the Henry S. Lane-Thomas A.
                    Hendricks gubernatorial contest in October.86
            
            With Indiana conceded for either Lincoln or Douglas in November, and with Bright's
                    pro-Buchanan "Lecompton" Democrats knifing the Little Giant, the Douglasites
                    became 
                  
                     80
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Old Line Guard, August 9, 1860. Herschel V. Johnson was the
                            vice-presidential candidate on the ticket with Douglas.
                  
                     81
                            Ibid., September 4, 1860. Joseph Lane, Breckinridge's candidate
                            for vice-president, had spent much of his early life in Indiana.
                  
                     82
                            Ibid., July 24, 1860.
                  
                     83
                            Ibid., September 15, 1860.
                  
                     84 Zimmerman, "Origin and Rise of Republican Party in
                            Indiana," in Indiana Magazine of History, XIII, 402.
                  
                            85
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     86
                            Ibid., 401.
               
                     alarmed. They appealed to Douglas himself: "Important
                    that you visit 
                        Indianapolis
                     about the middle of September."87 Other such urgent
                    requests came to the 
                        Illinois
                     Senator.88 On September 28, Douglas and his running mate, Herschel
                    V. Johnson, were welcomed to a great rally at the state's metropolis. Tens of thousands
                    heard Douglas in an open-air demonstration. He blasted the Buchanan administration for deserting the
                    Democratic National Platform of 1856, and pleaded with his audience to resist both the northern
                    sectionalism as represented by Lincoln and the southern sectionalism as symbolized by
                        Breckinridge.89 Then Douglas proceeded to other parts of Indiana.90 But it was plain that he was being blocked by Bright's organization,
                    which would prefer the election of Lincoln to that of Douglas.
            Destiny was smiling on the Republicans in another way. This was due to the hatred of the Whig-minded
                    Constitutional Union men for anything smacking of the Democratic party. It was an era of ardent past
                    party loyalties.
            The Constitutional Union State Convention was held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on August 15 and endorsed Bell for President. The attendance was disappointingly small
                    and it was evident that Bell could not carry Indiana. Governor Morehead of 
                        Kentucky
                     was present, full of the 
                        Kentucky
                     feeling that the Bell men and Douglasites should unite on one state ticket to defeat
                    the "sectional" Republicans. But Richard W. Thompson, most influential of all
                    Indiana Constitutional Unionists and never reconciled to any Democrat, had other ideas. At 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Thompson denounced all Democrats as the authors of all the mischief that had been
                    done, and interpreted the rupture in the Democracy as a just reward for their tampering with the
                    nation's peace and welfare. He stated that none could be elected by popular vote except
                    Lincoln. He feared that if none of the four White House contenders—Lincoln, Douglas,
                    Breckinridge, or Bell—should receive a majority of the electoral college and the election
                    should be decided by Congress, the House of Representatives 
                  
                     87 Ashbel P. Willard to Stephen A. Douglas, August 9, 1860, Stephen A.
                            Douglas Papers (University of 
                                Chicago
                             Library).
                  
                     88 W. S. Pierce to Stephen A. Douglas, August 10, 1860; Joseph J.
                            Bingham to Stephen A. Douglas, August 12, 1860; Charles E. Sturgis to Stephen A. Douglas,
                            September 1, 1860, Douglas Papers.
                  
                     89
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, September 29, 1860.
                  
                     90 Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, Sentinel, October 6 and 13, 1860.
               
                     would be unable to elect a President of the 
                        United States
                    . In such an eventuality the presidential office would fall to Breckinridge's
                    running mate, Senator Joseph Lane of 
                        Oregon
                    , in his capacity as president pro tempore of the Senate. To the
                    Union-minded Old Line Whig Thompson, the "disunionist" Democratic Joe Lane was to
                    be avoided at all costs—even if Lincoln should be the next President.91 Rather than run the risk of the 
                        Oregon
                     Senator's selection as chief executive, Thompson declared, "I tell
                    you frankly, I would prefer the election of Lincoln."92 Thompson added:
                        
                        I would greatly prefer seeing Mr. Bell elected, but he shall never be elected, with my
                            consent, nor shall any man, by a bargain with Mr. Douglas or his friends, or Mr.
                            Breckinridge or his friends.93
                  
                     Thereupon Thompson issued a circular addressed to the "Conservative Men of
                    Indiana," contending that too much attention was paid to national politics and not enough
                    to state affairs. The prospect of Joe Lane as President would be a triumph for disunion, Thompson
                    argued. He could not see how Whigs, who constituted the bulk of the Constitutional Union party,
                    could be asked to vote for Hendricks, the Democratic gubernatorial candidate, who had supported
                    Douglas' hated 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Act and thus helped to bring the Republican party into being. Thompson was for the
                    Republican Henry S. Lane for governor, since his election would revive the spirit of Whiggery, for
                    which Thompson had long been laboring. Between Lane and the Bell men there was but one
                    difference—slavery—and upon that question Lane as governor would have no
                    opportunity to do anything, since he would have no power outside Indiana.
            William K. Edwards, next to Thompson the most powerful Bell leader in the state, shared
                    Thompson's views. Other Constitutional Unionists became impressed with such reasoning, for
                    they began to drift toward the Republican state ticket, "not because they believe in its
                    principles but because of the desire to defeat the Democrats." By early October it was
                    obvious that most Bell men would vote for Henry S. Lane for governor.94 Too,
                    Lincoln's freedom from antislavery 
                  
                     91 Zimmerman, "Origin and Rise of Republican Party in
                            Indiana," in Indiana Magazine of History, XIII,
                            396–97.
                  
                     92
                            Ibid., 397.
                  
                            93
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     94
                            Ibid., 397–98; R. N. Lamb and Frederick J. Waldo to Richard W.
                            Thompson, August 11, 1860, Thompson Papers.
               
                     radicalism and the comparative conservatism of the Republican
                    national platform were inducing hosts of Bell men to go over to Lincoln. Surveying the scene in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Edwards informed Thompson: 
                        The result of the 
                                Chicago
                             Convention on their candidate and platform was more moderate than was
                            apprehended or anticipated. It is quite a come-down from 1856…. Many of our men
                            here have given in…. Lincoln however to my mind is so much better than Seward and
                            Co., that I have no opposition to him.95
                  
                    
            
            The state election was held October 9. With the Bell men supporting Lane, and with the Bright
                    Democrats doing likewise rather than go for the pro-Douglas Hendricks, there could be only one
                    result: the election of Henry S. Lane as governor. It was a close race. Of over 260,000 votes cast,
                    Lane received a majority of less than 10,000 over Hendricks. The Douglasites blamed
                    Bright's organization for their defeat—and they were partly correct.96
            
            Lincoln received word of the favorable results in Indiana and in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     almost simultaneously. He sent the glad tidings to his friend and law partner, William
                    H. Herndon: "I cannot give you details, but it is entirely certain that 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and Indiana have gone Republican very largely. 
                        Pennsylvania
                     25,000, and Indiana 5,000 to 10,000."97 Douglas was
                    crestfallen on hearing the news from the Hoosier and Keystone states. "Mr. Lincoln is the
                    next President,"98 he remarked dejectedly. The Little Giant was right.
                    The results in Indiana and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     were harbingers of a Lincoln victory in November. Republican orators and editors could
                    now emphasize to wavering conservatives that their triumphs in the two "October"
                    states had resulted in no moves toward secession below the Mason and Dixon line.99
            
            
               
                  95 William K. Edwards to Richard W. Thompson, June 4, 1860, Thompson
                        Papers.
               
                  96
                        
                            Milton
                        , Eve of Conflict, 497 and n. 54; Murphy, "Jesse D.
                        Bright," in Publication, Indiana Historical Society, X, 134;
                        Zimmerman, "Origin and Rise of Republican Party in Indiana," in Indiana Magazine of History, XIII, 408–10; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, December 4, 1860; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily State Sentinel, October 11, 1860.
               
                  97 Nicolay and Hay, Complete Works of Abraham Lincoln,
                        VI, 62.
               
                  98
                        
                            Milton
                        , Eve of Conflict, 496.
               
                  99
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, October 12, 1860; 
                            Springfield
                        , 
                            Massachusetts
                        , Republican, October 10, 1860.
            
         
         
         
            Back Numbers
            Will Buy, Sell, or Trade
            Because libraries and individuals are sometimes anxious to complete their files of the Indiana Magazine of History, the following offer is made:
            —1.50 per number or —6.00 per volume will be paid for numbers of the first
                    eight volumes (1905–1912), and for No. 1 of Vol. X (1914), Nos. 3 and 4 of Vol. XVII
                    (1921), and Nos. 1, 3 and 4 of Vol. XVIII (1922).
            —1.00 per number or —4.00 per volume will be paid for the numbers of Volumes IX
                    through XV (1913–1919).
            Beginning with Volume XVI (1920), the supply of back numbers is fairly adequate except as noted
                    above. Some of these later numbers will be bought for 50 cents or for —2.00 per volume.
            Such numbers as are now available or may become available will be sold at the above prices. Numbers
                    will be traded for other numbers so that subscribers can complete certain volumes. These
                    transactions are made for the accommodation of subscribers, and profit does not accrue to the Magazine or to any person or organization. Subscribers who wish to dispose of
                    recent back numbers which do not now have a monetary value are urged not to destroy their copies.
                    Postage or express will be paid if you will send any back numbers to the Indiana
                        Magazine of History, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
            A Note on Jack London and David Starr Jordan
            DAVID H. DICKASON
            
            In a recent study in this magazine of the literary interests of David Starr 
                        Jordan
                    
               1 the suggestion was made that this eminent authority in the field
                    of science was of direct influence in shaping the philosophy of the American realistic writer, Jack 
                        London
                    . Inasmuch as the three major biographers of 
                        London
                     overlook or minimize this fact, a brief amplification of the data may be justified.
            Even a casual reading of Jack London's chief autobio-grahpical novels, The
                        Road, John Barleycorn, and Martin Eden—as well as the perusal
                    of the majority of his tales of adventure, struggle, and brute force—makes it obvious
                    that their author was a hearty proponent of the scientific concepts of Darwin, as elaborated by
                    Spencer and others. Time and again occur such phrases as "the iron facts of
                    biology," or "the savage interpretation of biological facts"; and as London rides
                    over the peaceful acres of his ranch in the Valley of the Moon he sees even there "the
                    merciless and infinite waste of natural selection," and about him hears the murmur and hum
                    of "the gnat-swarm of the living, piping for a little space its thin plaint of troubled
                    air." As the historian of his own mental development he mentions particularly the
                    tremendous effect on his thought of Spencer's First Principles, through
                    which "all the hidden things were laying their secrets bare" as the
                    "master-key of life, evolution," opened difficult doors.2
            
            Mrs. Jack London elaborates upon her husband's early efforts at self-directed education3 after his adventures at sea, on the road with Kelly's army, and in
                    the Klondike. From one of his letters written in the summer of 1899 she quotes: 
                        Spencer's "First Principles" alone, leaving out all the rest of
                            his work, has done far more for mankind… than a thousand books like
                            "Nicholas Nickleby," "Hard Cash," "Book of
                            Snobs," and "Uncle Tom's Cabin." Why, take the enormous
                            power for human good contained in 
                        
                           1 See my article: "David Starr Jordan as a Literary
                                    Man," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXVII (1941),
                                    345–58.
                        
                           2 See especially John Barleycorn (
                                        New York
                                    , 1913), 319; and Martin Eden (Sonoma ed., 
                                        New York
                                    , 1928), 107 et seq.
                        
                           3 Charmian London, The Book of Jack London
                                    (2 vols., 
                                        New York
                                    , 1921).
                     
                             Darwin's "Origin of Species"
                            and "Descent of Man." Or in the works of Ruskin, Mill, Huxley, Carlyle,
                                Ingersoll….4
                  
                    
            
            So, too, Irving Stone mentions Darwin, Huxley, Wallace, and Spencer as among the effective forces in
                    moulding London's mind, and infers that London digested their profound ideas unaided by
                        teachers5 But Jack London's daughter Joan, after following the lead
                    of these two biographers in stressing the significance of her father's own reading, strikes
                    an iconoclastic note. Particularly after his return from his "Odyssey of the
                    North" his desires for immediate intellectual attainment coupled with brilliant literary
                    success were so strong that he gave up any effort at independent education. "A devout
                    believer in short cuts, and with access to the stored-up knowledge in the minds of generous friends,
                    he postponed serious study to a time when he had begun to earn a living at writing and could slow
                    his pace." But this leisure never came; and from his too hasty and superficial acquaintance
                    with, and too facile acceptance of his scientific and economic authorities Jack London, in the eyes
                    of his daughter, emerged actually "little better than half-educated"; for he had a
                    "lifelong dependence" on expository books written, or ideas expressed by other
                        people.6
            
            It is at this crucial point that Jordan steps in as a highly influential mediary in clarifying and
                    interpreting the problems of the physical world for the young London. President David Starr Jordan
                    of 
                        Stanford
                     University was, in the 1890's, the leading scientist and educator in the 
                        San Francisco
                     Bay region. Already celebrated as a research scholar and writer while at Indiana
                    University, Jordan had gone west in 1891 on the invitation of Leland 
                        Stanford
                    , Sr., to head his new institution. Under the aegis of his beloved mentor, Agassiz,
                    Jordan had originally refused to accept the Darwinian theory, but had acquired from the older man
                    the scientific attitude of questioning all authority and of keeping his mind hospitable to new
                    ideas. So in his own serious studies in zoology and icthyology Jordan was eventually
                    "converted to the theory of divergence through Natural Selection," though not
                    without some argument. In looking back on this formative 
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., I, 304.
                  
                     5 Irving Stone, Sailor on Horseback (
                                Boston
                            , 1938), 106–10.
                  
                     6 Joan London, Jack London and his Times (
                                New York
                            , 1939), 185–89, and 209 ff.
               
                     stage he remarked laconically: "I sometimes said that
                    I went over to the evolutionists with the grace of a cat the boy 'leads' by its
                    tail across the carpet!"7
            
            As a public figure Jordan was called upon for frequent lectures and addresses, in addition to his
                    work as university administrator and professor. He divided his interest between scholastic and
                    inspirational topics, and discussions of the new science which he deemed so vital in its application
                    to life and society. Writing prolifically and speaking widely, he elaborated and popularized the
                    doctrines of Darwin and Spencer. And while giving such a series of scientific lectures he first came
                    in contact with Jack London: 
                        I first met him in Oakland as an attendant at my university extension course on Evolution. He
                            was then a stocky young fellow of great physical strength and endurance as well as of
                            decided individuality. Being much interested in the subject of my lectures, he became in
                            some degree an intellectual disciple, a fact he freely recognized and testified to in
                            "The Call of the Wild" and other tales. At one time I asked him to come to 
                                Stanford
                             to read from his Alaskan stories. His manner was both modest and effective, and
                            awakened the kindly personal interest of his hearers.8
                  
                    That Jordan made in good faith such a claim of discipleship of this "thorough
                    master of trenchant English and picturesque incident" cannot be doubted. Jordan was a world
                    renowned figure in the realms of education, scientific research, and pacifism at the time he wrote
                    his memoirs, and was in no need of any derivative publicity. But it is interesting to find
                    verification, too, in Jack London's own words.
            He undoubtedly heard Jordan lecture on "Evolution: What It Is and What It Is Not,"
                    "The Elements of Organic Evolution," "The Kinship of Life,"
                    "The Evolution of the Mind," and kindred subjects. In addition he had heard Jordan
                    as a guest speaker at the socialistic Oakland organization known as the Ruskin Club.9 So it is not surprising that in July, 1899—a year after his return from
                    Alaska—one finds Jack London writing to his friend Cloudsley Johns: "I am glad
                    that you took Jordan in the right way. He is, to a certain extent, a hero of mine… Would
                    to God he 
                  
                     7 David Starr Jordan, The Days of a Man (2 vols.,
                            Yonkers-on-Hudscn, 1922), I, 114.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., I, 460.
                  
                     9 Joan London, Jack London, 215. Jack London also
                            mentions having heard Jordan speak at the "Section"—of the Socialist
                            Labor party in Oakland. See Charmian London, Jack London, I, 290.
               
                     were duplicated a few thousand times in the U. S….
                        "10 These are strong words from the self-assertive and
                    individualistic Jack London. That this admiration was intellectual as well as personal is borne out
                    by the fact that London three months before writing this had acquired Jordan's published
                    lectures and essays called Footnotes to Evolution.11 Part of
                    the material in this volume he must have already heard in the classroom; and he could also have
                    referred to some of the essays in the form of magazine articles; the Arena, for
                    example, to which Jack London was a contributor, had published three. In spite of these facts London
                    evidently wished to own and to have constantly available Jordan's treatises on science.
            There should be no exaggeration of the influence of David Starr Jordan on Jack London. Nevertheless,
                    as a young man of boundless confidence and ambition but little actual scientific knowledge, London
                    quite naturally revered an authoritative, practical scholar whose defense' and exegesis of
                    the newer science appealed to him in view of his own past experiences. Too, as has been pointed out,
                    London felt so pressed for time that any digest or simplification of a body of knowledge beckoned
                    irresistibly to him. And of such a course of lectures Jordan remarked: "Its chief quality,
                    highly praised at the time, lay in bringing abstruse conceptions into line with the common knowledge
                    of educated people."12
            
            Hence it is not illogical to believe that it was Jordan with his popularization and summary of the
                    thought of Darwin, Spencer, and Huxley, and not London's own juvenile and groping reading,
                    that served as the most active influence in the building of Jack London's intellectual
                    platform; and that in the realm of science and evolution, with its struggles and survivals, Jack
                    London was indeed an "intellectual disciple" of David Starr Jordan.
            
               
                  10 Charmian London, Jack London, I, 302.
               
                  11
                        Ibid., I, 290. Jordan's book was published in 1898, with a new
                        edition, 
                            New York
                        , 1919. "These [essays] were originally given as oral lectures before
                        University Extension societies in 
                            California
                        , having been condensed and written out in their present form after
                        delivery." David S. Jordan, Footnotes to Evolution, (
                            New York
                        , 1898), vii.
               
                  12 Jordan, Days of a Man, I, 526.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            The death of D. Frank Culbertson, of 
                        Vincennes
                    , on October 16, 1942, brought vividly to my mind his visit to the office of the
                    Historical Bureau in the State House in February, 1925. After explaining the probability of a new
                    bridge over the 
                        Wabash
                     River at the foot of Vigo Street, 
                        Vincennes
                    , just above the site of Fort Sackville, he asked me if the Indiana Historical Society
                    could not be induced to erect a statue of George Rogers Clark on the site of the fort, the surrender
                    of which on February 25, 1779, was the climax of his heroic "Conquest of the Old
                    Northwest." The enlargement of the plan of the proposed memorial and its realization were
                    the center of his activities for the following fifteen years. The story will bear retelling here.
            The approach of the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the surrender of Colonel Henry Hamilton
                    made the project timely, and the observance of other anniversaries of the War of the American
                    Revolution brought it added enthusiasm. Not long afterwards, Culbertson, Mason J. Niblack, and I
                    went over the ground at 
                        Vincennes
                    . It became apparent to us that something more than a statue would be appropriate. A
                    plan, which at first seemed visionary, of acquiring the area between the church of St. Francis
                    Xavier and the river and between the future bridge and DuBois Street, was suggested. At a meeting of
                    the 
                        Vincennes
                     Historical Society on August 25, 1925, Culbertson and Niblack secured the passage of
                    rousing resolutions calling for a national celebration of the anniversary of the capture of 
                        Vincennes
                     and asking the Indiana Historical Society to "take full charge of this
                    celebration." They presented these resolutions to the executive committee of the society at 
                        South Bend
                     during a historical pilgrimage which the society conducted to that city, 
                        La Porte
                    , Dune Acres, Gary, Hazleton, and 
                        Goodland
                    , August 28–30——it was for them the whole object of the
                    pilgrimage. At the annual meeting of the Indiana Historical Society on December 11 of the same year,
                    at the suggestion of the executive committee, the society adopted a resolution presented by Lew M.
                    O'Bannon, of Corydon, authorizing the executive committee to appoint a committee
                    "to cooperate with similar committees from other 
                    states that were formed from the Northwest Territory for the purpose of planning and putting into
                    execution a program for the adequate celebration of the 150th anniversary of the capture of 
                        Vincennes
                     by George Rogers Clark."
            The memorial committee, thus named, at its first meeting, on January 26, 1926, added D. Frank
                    Culbertson to its membership and elected William Fortune chairman. The effort to secure cooperation
                    from the other states of the Old Northwest, continued throughout the movement, while it had a
                    far-reaching educational effect, got no financial contributions. I well recall Culbertson's
                    eloquent presentation of the Clark memorial to a committee of the 
                        Ohio
                     Legislature—which resulted in bringing to life a bill (all hope of which had
                    been lost) appropriating a considerable sum for the acquisition and marking of sites in 
                        Ohio
                     associated with the War of the American Revoluution.
            The committee operated on an appropriation of nine hundred dollars from the Historical Society, a
                    grant of several hundred dollars from the Society of Indiana Pioneers, contributions secured by
                    Culbertson in 
                        Vincennes
                    , and help from the Governor's Contingent Fund.
            It was soon decided to ask the city of 
                        Vincennes
                     to purchase the old blockhouse square, to have both the city of 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        Knox
                     County issue bonds to the amount of one hundred thousand dollars each for the purchase
                    of additional land, to introduce a bill in the Indiana General Assembly for a tax levy, the proceeds
                    of which would be used for the purchase of land and for the erection of a memorial, and to ask
                    Congress to make an appropriation. The pledge of the city of 
                        Vincennes
                     to present the old blockhouse square to the memorial organization was given at a large
                    luncheon at the Gibault Boys' School on May 24, and in due time bond issues of one hundred
                    thousand dollars each by 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        Knox
                     County were authorized by the legislature. Both were subsequently issued and sold.
                    Culbertson proved a consummate master in drafting bills providing for the erection of a memorial by
                    the state of Indiana and for an appropriation by Congress and in promoting their passage. The former
                    created the George Rogers Clark Memorial Commission of Indiana, with fifteen members, and made a tax
                    levy which yielded approximately four hundred thousand dollars. It was passed by unanimous vote in
                    the house, and  with only one dissenting voice in the senate,
                    and was approved by Governor Ed Jackson, February 23, 1927. The bill introduced in Congress about
                    the same time made little progress during that session.
            Meanwhile, from the very beginning, an extensive educational program was carried out by the committee
                    of the Indiana Historical Society and by the state commission when it took over. The
                        Indiana History Bulletin devoted part of each issue to the memorial movement. Many
                    newspapers carried full accounts of the meetings and of events of the Revolution in the West. A
                    pilgrimage was made to the birthplace of George Rogers Clark near 
                        Monticello
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , on the one hundred and seventy-fifth anniversary of his birth, November 19, 1752; the
                    one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of each significant event in Clark's campaign in 
                        Kentucky
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , and Indiana was successfully and appropriately observed. The John Hancock Life
                    Insurance Company made Clark the subject of one of its illustrated historical pamphlets and
                    circulated hundreds of thousands of copies. Milo M. Quaife's edition of Clark's
                    account of his campaigns and Colonel Henry Hamilton's report (both with corrected spelling
                    and grammar) was reprinted; and a copy was presented to President Ccolidge and to each member of
                    Congress, with his name in gilt letters on the front cover. It became apparent afterward that many,
                    probably the majority, of these read the book. Several biographies of Clark and accounts of the
                    conquest of the Old Northwest were issued by commercial publishers. George Rogers Clark was the
                    theme of innumerable public addresses before historical societies, clubs, teachers'
                    meetings, and hereditary patriotic organizations. The Italians of 
                        Indianapolis
                     organized a Francis Vigo Memorial Association to memorialize Clark's friend
                    and financial backer.
            At the hearing before the Joint Committee on the Library at the 69th Congress, January 18, 1927, the
                    significance of the taking of Fort Saqkville was presented by speakers from Indiana and other
                    states, including the late Dr. J. Franklin Jameson. A favorable committee report was obtained after
                    weeks of personal interviews by Mr. Culbertson with nearly all of the leaders of the 
                        United States
                     Senate and House of Representatives. A bill strongly supported by Senator Simeon D.
                    Fess of 
                        Ohio
                    , Senator James E. Watson of Indiana, and others passed the Senate on February 24, 1928.
                    Supported by Representatives Will R. Wood, Robert  Luce of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , chairman of the House Committee on the Library, Ralph Gilbert of 
                        Kentucky
                    , and others, the bill passed the House of Representatives on May 7, 1928. As passed,
                    the bill created the George Rogers Clark Sesqui-centennial Commission of the 
                        United States
                     and appropriated a million dollars for the construction of a memorial at Vin-cennes by
                    that commission. Thus the movement, begun as a historical society memorial project, promoted as an
                    interstate celebration, and changed by Indiana statute to a state project, assumed the form of a
                    national memorial to be erected by a 
                        United States
                     commission on land provided by the city of 
                        Vincennes
                    , the county of 
                        Knox
                    , and the state of Indiana.
            Plans for the memorial developed apace with the scope of the movement. The committee of the Indiana
                    Historical Society engaged H. Van Buren Magonigle, an architect of 
                        New York
                     City, to make a study of the whole situation and draft a general plan for the memorial.
                    He insisted upon the enlargement of the grounds, proposed a monumental structure, and urged the
                    changing of the proposed 
                        Wabash
                     River bridge from a steel truss type to a concrete structure. The federal commission
                    engaged William E. Parsons, of 
                        Chicago
                    , as architectural advisor and the firm of Bennett, Parsons, and Frost as architect of
                    the grounds. In a competition arranged by Parsons, the plans submitted by Frederic C. Hirons, of 
                        New York
                     City, were selected for the memorial building. It took three years, numerous meetings
                    in Indiana, two formal visits of the commission to Governor Len Small, of 
                        Illinois
                    —the last time with Governor Ed Jackson in the company—and the
                    cooperation with 
                        Illinois
                     in building a bridge at Mount Carmel to get the present beautiful concrete bridge
                    instead of the proposed steel truss bridge over the 
                        Wabash
                    . A veritable fight was necessary to have the memorial building of suitable granite, in
                    the face of the opposition of Indiana limestone interests. An additional appropriation was made by
                    the state of Indiana. Culbertson, by this time well acquainted with most of the members of Congress,
                    secured three additional appropriations from the 
                        United States
                     government. The greatest disappointment of the whole movement was the failure to secure
                    the removal of the railroad track from the memorial grounds. The final success of the movement was
                    reached in the dedication of the memorial by the President of the 
                        United States
                     on June 14, 1936.
         
         
         
            Documents
            
                    THE RETURN OF THE PROGRESSIVES IN 1916
                
            Edited by CEDRIC CUMMINS
            
            The Progressive Party of Indiana had made an auspicious beginning in 1912, for although the election
                    had gone to the Democrats the Progressives had run ahead of the Republican ticket.1 Two years later, however, the new party dropped far below its two rivals. Yet it remained a
                    political factor of considerable importance, and speculation as to its probable influence in the
                    next presidential election began immediately and continued unceasingly. At the Progressive National
                    Convention of 1916 Theodore Roosevelt was nominated for President, but he rejected its proffered
                    honor and bade his followers support the Republican nominee, Charles Evans Hughes. The Indiana
                    Progressives were thereby confronted with the choice of going back to the Republicans, going over to
                    the Democrats, or making a last ditch fight to maintain a separate state organization. The following
                    letters, taken from the William Dudley Foulke Collection2 of the Indiana State
                    Library, Indiana History Division, reflect that situation.
            In the first letter Foulke wrote to Theodore Roosevelt of the feeling among local Progressives that
                    the party had been betrayed by its leaders. Roosevelt replied with strong indictments of President
                    Wilson and expressed his opposition 
                  
                     1 The party's prestige and position was indicated by the
                            large number of state newspapers which became its champion, such as the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, Liberty Herald, 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Star, 
                                Goshen
                            
                            News-Times, LaGrange Standard, 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Courier and Attica Ledger.
                  
                     2 William Dudley Foulke (1848–1935) was a resident of 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, for almost sixty years, and as civil service advocate, publicist, and
                            author he was perhaps its leading citizen throughout most of that period. His wide ranging
                            interests and versatility were indicated by his many publications on topics as diverse as
                            the Life of Oliver P. Morton (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899) and Some Love Songs of Petrarch (
                                London
                            , 1915). The outbreak of the World War found him traveling in 
                                Germany
                            , and at the request of the American embassy in Berlin he assisted Americans who
                            desired to return to the 
                                United States
                            . Upon his return to Indiana he became a leader among those who sympathized with
                            the Allied cause. Despite the fact that his father was a minister of the Society of Friends,
                            he was one of the most ardent of the military preparedness advocates. Foulke, a former
                            Republican, had joined the Progressive Party in 1912, activated apparently by his liberal
                            political philosophy (he had been a Mugwump in 1884) and by his admiration for Theodore
                            Roosevelt.
               
                     to "maintaining the Progressive organization in the
                    various states." The letter is of particular importance to American historiography because
                    the papers in the Theodore Roosevelt Collection at the Library of Congress for the period since
                    March, 1909, will not be available for a number of years. The last three letters are between Foulke
                    and Harold L. Ickes,3 who as a former Progressive had been placed on the
                    Republican national Campaign Committee with the special assignment of wooing those who had followed
                    the Bull Moose standard in 1912.
            Taken together these communications indicate that Hughes was more acceptable to the local
                    Progressives than were the Republican state candidates.4 They demonstrate, also,
                    that Progressives and Republicans found greater emotional unity in opposing Wilson than they did in
                    pursuing the more positive aspects of the Hughes campaign. Foulke's singling out of 
                        California
                     for special reference in the fourth letter would seem to have entitled him to wear the
                    seer's mantle.
            (1)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    June 29th, 1916
                                
                        My dear Col. Roosevelt:
                        I think you ought to know the condition of affairs in Indiana. At a meeting of
                                    Progressives from all parts of the state yesterday, the feeling of about two-thirds
                                    of those who attended was very bitter against you, Perkins, Garfield, Dye (our
                                    national committeeman) and others, for what they were pleased to call a betrayal of
                                    the party, and against the Republican machine and candidates, particularly
                                    Fairbanks, New, Watson and some of the men of the Republican State
                                    ticket….
                        I am not sure that there is not some Democratic scheme behand it. I don't
                                    quite see how the campaign is to be otherwise financed. Many of those who attended,
                                    acted like wild men. I tried to call their attention to the greater need of the
                                    country and to dangers from without but to no effect. This was all a scheme they
                                    thought to run them back into the Republican party and the danger from within was
                                    much greater than that from without, etc.
                        
                           
                              3 He was to be chairman of the executive committee of the 
                                            Illinois
                                         State Council of Defense during World War I and Secretary of the
                                        Interior in World War II.
                           
                              4 The state ticket included James P. Goodrich for
                                        governor, Harry New for 
                                            United States
                                         senator, and James E. Watson for 
                                            United States
                                         senator. Together with Charles W. Fairbanks, the Republican choice
                                        for vice-president, this group was drawn from the ranks of those whom the
                                        Progressives in 1912 had labeled the "Old Guard." Ironically,
                                        from the standpoint of the Progressives, Hughes was to be defeated in the coming
                                        election (though he carried Indiana) and the Republican State candidates
                                        elected.
                        
                        
                        I saw this bitter feeling starting at 
                                        Chicago
                                    
                           5 and I tried to keep it down and was willing even
                                    to join in the telegram6 to you knowing that you would act later
                                    upon full information and do what, was right, hoping in the meantime the feeling
                                    would cool down. But it is now more intense than ever and utterly uncontrollable. Of
                                    course you have done just right and every sensible man ought to know it, but their
                                    disappointment won't let them see anything else. I don't know what
                                    to advise. Probably it is best to let the thing run its course. I am not sure but
                                    that a communication from you yourself might inflame them the more.
                        
                                    Your friend,
                                    (W. D. Foulke)
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            (2)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                        New York
                                    , 
                           
                                    July 5th, 1916
                                
                        Dear Foulke:
                        I am really pleased that you should have given me the information that you have given
                                    me about Indiana. I am utterly unable to understand the attitude of Lee.7 For nearly two years I have been attacking Wilson as no
                                    Republican has attacked him, and I attacked him for a year when most of the
                                    Republicans, including Mr. Taft, were inclined to support him. The Progressives who
                                    then supported me, and who insisted upon my nomination, must have done so, if they
                                    were intelligent and sincere, because I represented extreme hostility to Wilson. It
                                    is therefore now utterly incomprehensible how these men can support Wilson.
                        I do not believe in maintaining the Progressive organization in the various states.
                                    They have become small derelict parties of the kind that are the natural prey of
                                    cheap crooks, and of those cranks whose crankiness has in it something sinister.
                                    Bainbridge Colby is taking substantially the attitude the people in Indiana of whom
                                    you speak are taking.
                        Some entirely honest Progressives will vote for Wilson, but I have no possible
                                    sympathy with the movement. It should be understood that the real Progressives have
                                    no sympathy with fake Progressives who are trying to run the party as an adjunct of
                                    the Democracy.
                        
                                    Faithfully yours,
                                    (Theodore Roosevelt)
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            (3)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                        Chicago
                                    ,
                           
                                    Sept. 9, 1916
                                
                        
                                    Mr. William Dudley Foulke
                                    
                              
                                 
                                        Richmond
                                    , Indiana
                           
                                
                        Dear Sir:—
                        Will you please let me know what the sentiment among the Progressives 
                              
                                 5 Reference here is to the Progressive National
                                            Convention held at 
                                                Chicago
                                            .
                              
                                 6 This was a telegram of remonstrance sent by the
                                            Progressive Convention after Roosevelt had provisionally declined its
                                            nomination for President.
                              
                                 7 Edwin M. Lee, chairman of the Progressive State
                                            Committee of Indiana who favored the continuation of the state organization
                                            and party.
                           
                                     of your locality is on the National situation?
                                    Can you give me the names and addresses of Progressives, and tell me whom they are
                                    supporting for President? What ought to be done so as to enlist the enthusiastic
                                    co-operation of Progressives for Mr. Hughes?
                        Reports that are coming to me from all sections of the West are most encouraging. I
                                    am confident that not less than eighty-five percent of those who followed Col.
                                    Roosevelt in 1912 are now supporting Mr. Hughes.8 I hope and
                                    believe that this percentage will be materially increased before election day. At
                                    any rate, there can be no doubt that if the Progressives are back of Mr. Hughes in
                                    such substantial numbers as I believe them to be, the Republican National ticket
                                    will be elected with a rousing majority.
                        I hope that Progressives everywhere will get into this fight with enthusiasm. When
                                    Mr. Hughes has been elected, I want every fair minded man to recognize his victory
                                    was due, in no small degree, to the enthusiastic support accorded him by those of us
                                    who fought together under Col. Roosevelt's banner in 1912.
                        Please let me hear from you. Very truly yours,
                                    (Harold L. Ickes)
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            (4)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Sept. 12th, 1916
                                
                        
                                    Harold L. Ickes
                                    
                              Republican National Committee, 
                                        Chicago
                                
                              
                           
                                
                        Dear Sir;—
                        I think the majority of Progressives in this neighborhood are for Mr. Hughes though
                                    it is more divided than I should like to see it, the County chairman I think being
                                    for Wilson. The majority of us however will not support the Republican ticket all
                                    through. I shall certainly not vote for Mr. Watson after his Mulhall record in
                                    Congress and our present mayor, a Progressive tells me he intends to support a
                                    Democratic State ticket. He is probably for Hughes but not certainly. He wants to
                                    see what more Hughes says and does and is somewhat disappointed with his campaign.
                        I have received letters from 
                                        California
                                     showing great disappointment there by Progressives. I cannot say there
                                    is great enthusiasm for Hughes and I think his main support is on account of the
                                    utter disgust and contempt for the hypocritical weathercock now in 
                                        Washington
                                    .
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    (Wm. D. Foulke)
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            (5)
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                        Chicago
                                    ,
                           
                                    Sept. 14, 1916
                                
                        
                                    Mr. William Dudley Foulke,
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Richmond
                                , Ind.
                           
                                
                        Dear Sir:
                        I appreciate very much your letter of September 12th. Mr. William D. Cousin, who is
                                    in Indiana at my request canvassing the situation by personal interview among
                                    Progressives, writes me that you have 
                              
                                 8 The election was later to prove these figures to
                                            have been substantially correct for Indiana.
                           
                                     promised to furnish him a statement on the
                                    National issues that we can use from these headquarters as publicity. I am very glad
                                    indeed that you are willing to do this, and I look forward with interest to seeing
                                    the statement.
                        I realize that the Progressives of Indiana have a situation to face that is
                                    distressing to most of them. I hope, however, that regardless of local matters, the
                                    Progressives of Indiana will do as you indicate they are likely to do, namely,
                                    support Mr. Hughes for President.
                        
                                    Very truly yours,
                                    (Harold L. Ickes)
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
            THE FIRST WABASH SONG
            "The First 
                        Wabash
                     Song" was printed in German in this magazine in the March, 1942, issue. The
                    contributor, Professor Karl J. Arndt, expressed the hope that some poetic reader would do justice to
                    the original German by providing a suitable translation in verse. Here are two translations which
                    were printed in Louise M. Husband, "Comments on Things that Interest Me," 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, Times, June 19 and 26, 1942.
            
                    Translation of "Wabasch Lied"
                    by JOHN S. DUSS
               
                    Sad, indeed became the parting,
                    Gloom pervades the atmosphere—
                    All are yearning, all are wailing;
                    Ah! that I were with you there.
                    That would then be the sweet tone,
                    Together father and son.
                    Let us be forever steadfast
                    Let us be forever true
                    Through much sorrow, through much gladness,
                    We forsooth, will yet come through
                    Hark, the sounding melody;
                    Soon, the 
                            Wabash
                         we shall see.
                    And the time in its extension
                    Soon will usher in the spring,
                    Two months, still of intervention—
                    Then our journey will begin.
                    Hark, the sounding melody;
                    Soon, the 
                            Wabash
                         we shall see.
                    And this time will yet be coming,
                    When united we shall stay.
                    Live in peace among the righteous—
                    Ah, that this could be today.
                    Ah, then be rejoiced with me 
                    
                  
                            Wabash
                         environs to see.
                    
                    
                  
                            Wabash
                        , O thou field Elysian,
                    Full of gladness mak'st thou me.
                    Barest thought is quite sufficient,
                    To arouse my joy in thee.
                     Hark, the sounding melody;
                    Soon, the 
                            Wabash
                         we shall see.
                    Hark, oh hark, ah: hark ye dear ones,
                    Hark the sounding melody.
                    Let us duly make sweet music,
                    Since the 
                            Wabash
                         soon we'll see.
                    Hark the sounding melody.
                    Soon the 
                            Wabash
                         we shall see.
                
            
                    Translation of "Wabasch Lied"
                    by HOWARD FRENCH
               
                    Sad has been our separation,
                    Grief and yearning weigh us down:
                    Sore hearts sigh in supplication
                    For the father of their town.
                    Join thy loving children, Lord.
                    Turn our plaint to joyful accord.
                    Let us always stand united,
                    True and steadfast friends, remain.
                    By union's strength all wrong is righted;
                    Share thy neighbor's joy and pain.
                     Hear our song ring merrily,
                     "
                            Wabash
                        , 
                            Wabash
                        , soon we shall see."
                    Nearer draws that day of gladness
                    When the father meets the son
                    To live in peace, with no more sadness,
                    Love and joy to everyone.
                    Sing with us triumphantly,
                    "
                            Wabash
                         River, soon we shall see."
                    
                  
                            Wabash
                         Valley, peaceful, charming,
                    To my heart you are so dear;
                    Love for you my heart, is warming
                    Filling me with hopeful cheer.
                    Hear our song ring merrily,
                    "
                            Wabash
                        , 
                            Wabash
                        , soon we shall see."
                    Harken, hear ye, happy chorus,
                    Listen to our song resound;
                    Pour forth music still more glorious
                    For we'll soon be 
                            Wabash
                         bound.
                    Hear our song ringing merrily,
                    "
                            Wabash
                        , 
                            Wabash
                        , soon we shall see."
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               
                  
                            Louisiana
                         in the Confederacy. By Jefferson Davis Bragg. (
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 
                        Baton Rouge
                    , 1941. Pp. ix, 341. —3.00.)
            Despite the absence of large scale military combat in 
                        Louisiana
                     such as was witnessed in 
                        Virginia
                     (both 
                        New Orleans
                     and 
                        Baton Rouge
                     were taken by the Federals without firing a shot), this important state of the Lower
                    South suffered severely during the war. The fall of 
                        New Orleans
                     and the control of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , however, tended to immobilize such military or economic strength as the state
                    retained, and this book gives one the impression that 
                        Louisiana
                     contributed little to the Confederacy beyond manpower. It is because Professor Bragg
                    feels that the Lower South in general, and 
                        Louisiana
                     in particular, with the exception of 
                        New Orleans
                    , has not received the attention it deserves from students of the Confederacy that he
                    has written this book, "an attempt to tip the scales, howsoever lightly, in favor of a
                    neglected section and people."
            In broad outline, the book is a straightforward narrative of the history of 
                        Louisiana
                     from secession to June 10, 1865, when Governor Wells congratulated the people on being
                    restored to the protection of the 
                        United States
                     flag. The study is based upon extensive collections of manuscript and printed sources,
                    as the extensive bibliography indicates. Primarily, the treatment is political and economic,
                    although military events receive sufficient consideration. In so far as the secession movement and
                    events in and around 
                        New Orleans
                     are concerned, the study seems to add little if anything to the work of W. M. Caskey,
                        Secession and Restoration of 
                            Louisiana
                        . Some critics may object that chapters on 
                        New Orleans
                     under Federal control have no place in a study of Confederate 
                        Louisiana
                    . It is in the study of affairs outside the city, however, that the author makes his
                    chief contribution. Topics considered include problems of military organization, economic
                    disturbances such as the suspension of specie payments, inflation, shortages of supplies, the cotton
                    embargo, trade with Mexico, stay laws, fiscal policies, measures for the relief of
                    soldiers' families, and relations with the Confederacy. The impact of the war upon the
                    plantation system and slavery, both within and without Confederate 
                    
                        Louisiana
                    , and the refugee movement into 
                        Texas
                    , are discussed. Naturally, the work of the legislature and especially the problems and
                    accomplishments of governors Moore and Allen receive attention.
            If one were to venture a general criticism of the study, it would be that it does not go far enough,
                    that it does not reveal some important aspects of the life of the people, that it is more a factual
                    narrative than a penetrating analysis. One may wish to know, for example, what happened to the
                    literary or cultural life of the people, whether there were amusements or diversions to relieve the
                    tension of war, whether civil liberties were submerged. If 
                        Louisiana
                     had an educational system which was affected by the war, it is not revealed in this
                    book. What happened to the churches, orphan homes, and similar institutions? We find no discussion
                    here of the Confederate judiciary in 
                        Louisiana
                    . The reviewer thinks other topics could have been more adequately treated. The author
                    points out, for example, that the racial population of the state was heterogeneous; but he does not
                    explain what difference this made in the history of the war era. The discussion of the wide-spread
                    disloyalty in the state seems too general. The problem of the hospitalization of soldiers is
                    dismissed in a brief paragraph. There is, however, an interesting account of the manufacture of
                    medicinal supplies. The book, in short, whets our appetite but does not satisfy it. It is possible
                    that the restraint which the author has shown so admirably in treating military events has been used
                    with less justification in presenting other topics less well known.
            Duke University
            E. H. Woody
         
         
            
               The Flag of the 
                            United States
                        . By Milo M. Quaife. (Grosset & Dunlap, 
                        New York
                    , 1942. Pp. xiv, 210. —2.00.)
            On December 9, 1816, the House of Representatives adopted a resolution recognizing Indiana's
                    admission to statehood; on the same day Peter H. Wendover offered a resolution to the same House for
                    the appointment of a committee to consider the problem of the alteration of the Flag. This
                    alteration was to consume fitful discussions for a period of eighteen months. By the Flag Act of
                    April 4, 1818, the Flag of fifteen bars was abandoned, and the present basic  description of Old Glory was adopted; as of July 4th of the same year,
                    the Flag of the 
                        United States
                     was to consist of "thirteen horizontal stripes, alternate red and
                    white," and a Union of "twenty stars, white in a blue field." It was
                    furthermore provided that, effective the July 4th following the admission of each new state, an
                    additional star should be added to the Union. It remained for President Taft's proclamation
                    of 1912 to determine the present form of the Flag—thirteen bars and forty-eight stars.
            In a volume that has popular appeal, Dr. Quaife has traced the history of the Flag of the 
                        United States
                    , prefacing his main discussion with several chapters devoted to the history of the use
                    of flags in general and the evolution of the British Union and Meteor flags in particular. In
                    illustrating the easy stages by which our own Flag evolved from Britain's banner, the
                    author has dispelled those myths which have been held tenaciously by the popular imagination. This
                    book may well provoke controversy, for Quaife has appeared here as an iconoclast: Betsy Ross is
                    dismissed as the flag-maker to the Continental Congress; the design did not come from the 
                        Washington
                     coat-of-arms; the Stars and Stripes as popularly known was not carried by any of the
                    Revolutionary armies; the story of the Portsmouth quilting party and the John Paul Jones flag is a
                    pious fraud; Peale and Trumbull obviously "doctored" their historical paintings to
                    make them more marketable; Old Glory is not the world's oldest existing flag—all
                    these romantic musings the author punctures by careful analysis and comparison of the myth with the
                    available facts.
            Scholars working in American history will find much of this no news; but to the general reader,
                    Quaife's refutation of "truths" gained through grammar school study of
                    American history may come as a revelation. Even today patriotic agencies, the
                    "movies," and official handbooks continue these historical
                    falsehoods—myths, perhaps, is a happier word. Among the numerous volumes on this same
                    subject, even such recent writers as Frederick Hicks and Willis Johnson have hesitated to whack at
                    the old myths about the flag with the same vigor that characterizes Quaife's most recent
                    work. Despite the emotional character of the subject, the author has remained largely free from
                    chauvinistic expression. He does not write down to his audience, and  though the book reads with ease, the footnotes are adequate guides for
                    more extensive reading for those who question Quaife's contentions or prefer to investigate
                    at greater length. The volume would have benefited by the addition of a bibliography of the
                    literature about the Flag.
            Indiana University
            Robert H. Irrmann
         
         
            
               Paul Revere and the World He Lived In. By Esther Forbes. (Houghton Mifflin
                    Company, 
                        Boston
                    , 1942. Pp. xiii, 510. —3.75.)
            The stoutish forty-year-old man who set off on a borrowed horse from 
                        Charlestown
                     for 
                        Lexington
                     on the night of April 18, 1775, cannot have suspected that, in the words of his latest
                    biographer, he was "galloping into history, art, editorials, folklore, poetry; the beat of
                    those hooves never to be forgotten." Even at his death, forty-three years later,
                    "the legend had not as yet risen up to swallow the actual man…. [Those] who had
                    so recently seen the stocky, benevolent old gentleman, walking the streets of 
                        Boston
                    , could hardly have guessed that he was destined forever to ride a foaming charger, his
                    face enveloped in the blackness of a famous night of almost half a century before, to become in time
                    hardly a man at all—only a hurry of hooves in a village street, a voice in the dark, a
                    knock on a door, a disembodied spirit crying the alarm."
            Esther Forbes has given us, in five hundred garrulous pages, the portrait of a man far different from
                    the mysterious, romantic figure of Longfellow's poem or Grant Wood's painting. Her
                    Paul Revere emerges as a solid, practical, versatile individual, a regular churchgoer addicted to
                    card-playing, the father of sixteen children, a maker of false teeth, a skilled worker in silver,
                    and an outstandingly successful entrepreneur in the age when the artisan was becoming the modern
                    industrialist. The Paul Revere who, at the age of sixty-five, invested —25,000 of his own
                    and —10,000 borrowed from the young Federal government in one of the first copper-rolling
                    mills in the country is probably of greater significance in our history than the Paul Revere who
                    carried subversive messages between 
                        Boston
                    , 
                        New York
                    , and 
                        Philadelphia
                     in the years before the flaring of the Revolution, helped rouse the countryside against
                    the redcoats in  1775, and participated in the ill-fated
                    Penobscot expedition in 1779.
            The present volume, which traces the varied lives of its subject, is both much more and much less
                    than a complete biography. Less, because there is not enough material available to give any but the
                    thinnest account of Revere's activities during a considerable part of his life and because
                    Miss Forbes eschews the methods of those biographers who make up what they cannot find out. More,
                    because to compensate for the inadequate material the author paints in a background of New 
                        England
                     in the eighteenth and early ninteenth centuries which at times almost completely
                    swallows up the subject. This is a discursive, leisurely, and often fascinating book. Miss Forbes
                    has evidently steeped herself in the literature of the time, manuscripts as well as printed
                    materials, and through her pen old 
                        Boston
                     comes to life again. Let the historical scholar complain, as he will, that she rarely
                    indicates the sources of her information, even in the case of direct quotations; the average reader
                    will take her word and admire her erudition. Bits of lore on all sorts of odd subjects find their
                    way into the pages; the peculiar characteristics of eighteenth-century New 
                        England
                     horses and Dr. Samuel Willard's advanced ideas on occupational therapy for the
                    mentally deranged are alike grist for Miss Forbes' slow-grinding mill. A quiet humor often
                    enlivens her descriptions of the customs of the times:
            "There were plenty of frolics during which an old English roughness of manner and courting
                    customs come to the top (this phase of 
                        Puritan
                     life has been ignored by Thanksgiving magazine covers and school pageants)."
            The defect in Miss Forbes' virtues is that there is no balance in her book between the
                    significant and the trivial, and between Revere and his surroundings. She is at times like a
                    talkative octogenarian who starts to tell something but wanders off into all sorts of conversational
                    byways before getting anywhere near her goal. (Notable example: in the midst of an interesting
                    description of the expulsion of Tories from 
                        Boston
                     she gets sidetracked, p. 328, into irrelevant comments on Revere as an engraver.) This
                    lack of discipline is accompanied by a certain shallowness of perception regarding the forces
                    responsible for the Revolution. For all her skill in painting a colorful and animated picture of  eighteenth-century 
                        Boston
                    , the author fails to convey any such understanding of why New Englanders were
                    rebellious as does, for example, John Miller, in his comparable but much more condensed biography of
                    Samuel Adams. The spirit of Oliver Wiswell is abroad in the land, and at times Miss Forbes comes
                    close to being a gentler, less poisonously reactionary Kenneth Roberts. To be sure, since her
                    subject is a Revolutionary hero, she cannot, like Roberts, make all the rebels
                    dirty, insolent, and pockmarked. But it is curious that twice (pp. 103 and 126) she compares the
                    first strong demonstration of the Sons of Liberty to the Fascist march on 
                        Rome
                    ; and of these rough-mannered but essentially democratic Revolutionists she goes so far
                    as to say (p. 125): "With their marchings and their feasts and their secret oaths, they
                    bear an unpleasant likeness to modern storm troopers." Some indication of the
                    author's attitude can be had from a comparison of her grossly unfair remark about Sam Adams
                    with her approving comment on the Reverend Mather Byles, a Tory:
            "That Adams had a certain affection for humble people cannot be questioned, but he had
                    abysmal contempt for their intelligence. He appealed only to their emotions, not to their minds.
                    Fireworks, illuminated pyramids, flags, free feasts, and slogans were all he seems to have thought
                    they could understand [p. 108]."
            "Certain of his [Byles'] remarks handed down to the present make pretty good sense.
                    'They call me a brainless Tory,' the famous Doctor Byles once said as he watched
                    three thousand Sons of Liberty parading the streets of 
                        Boston
                    , 'but tell me, my young friend, which is better, to be ruled by one tyrant
                    three thousand miles away or three thousand tyrants not a mile away?' "
            Lesser errors are the lack of grammatical logic which leads Miss Forbes into repeated errors of
                    structure when her sentences grow somewhat complicated, the misspellings of the name of Lord Bute
                    (p. 101) and of Noddle's Island (p. 440), and the author's reference to
                    "a pence a week" (p. 27). The book is provided with a bibliography, a section of
                    genealogical data, and a set of supplementary notes for such miscellaneous items as even Miss
                    Forbes' ingenuity could not weave into, or pin on, the fabric of her narrative. Good
                    printing and generous illustrations increase the pleasure of 
                    the reader in an interesting book. The attractive adaptation of Price's map of 
                        Boston
                     used as end-papers contains one error: the position of the Cockerel Church does not
                    correspond to the description on page 169 of the text.
            Indiana University
            Leonard Lundin
         
         
            
               We, the Guardians of Our Liberty. By Marguerite Hall Albjerg and Frederick
                    Butterfield Knight. Beckley-Cardy Company, 
                        Chicago
                    , 1940. Pp. x, 194, xxxix. Illustrations. —1.20.)
            Two years ago the educational world may have been only mildly interested in an effort to popularize
                    for adolescents "man's struggle for freedom and what those freedoms
                    are—here—now." And the Booklist, XXXVII, p. 328,
                    may have properly expressed doubt that this attractive little book by Mrs. Albjerg and Dr. Knight
                    "will have value as a permanent addition to children's collections." But
                    teachers of social studies who are wracking their brains to make adaptations in response to an
                    all-out war effort will find here an excellent collateral reference. Apparently the larger cities
                    and towns have already found it quite usable, judging from comments heard by the reviewer at recent
                    professional meetings.
            Although nominally for junior high school pupils, We, the Guardians of Our Liberty
                    recounts so many interesting incidents in what is all too often a catalogue of legislative and
                    constitutional developments, that seniors studying government will also appreciate it.
                    Academically-minded teachers doubtless will be pleased to learn that the chapter on the English Bill
                    of Rights was written by Dr. Victor L. Albjerg, Professor of English History at Purdue University.
                    In light of recent developments in Eastern Europe, some adults will object to the use of Soviet
                    Russia as a whipping boy, along with 
                        Germany
                     and 
                        Italy
                    .
            Indiana University
            Max P. Allen
         
         
            
               The Trans-
                            Mississippi
                         West: A Guide to Its Periodical Literature (1811–1938). By Oscar
                    Osburn Winther. (Indiana University Publications, Social Science Series No. 3, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, 1942. Pp. xv, 263. —1.50.)
            A valuable bibliographical aid to historians and scholars  in
                    general has been produced by Doctor Winther. It is both a bibliography and a bibliography of
                    bibliographies because it lists bibliographical articles on the Trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West.
            To be evaluated intelligently its limits must be understood. It is an index of professional and
                    semiprofessional periodicals, including the 
                  
                            Mississippi
                         Valley Historical Review, the American Historical Review,
                    the American Political Science Review, and a number of the general magazines which
                    were more likely to contain historical articles, such as the Atlantic Monthly,
                        Harper's Magazine, Hunt's Merchants' Magazine, Mid-America,
                        Niles' Weekly Register, North American Review, and the Overland
                        Monthly. The list includes approximately fifty titles, most of which are published west of
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                     River. It does not include state historical periodicals published east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , nor special publications of professional societies, such as proceedings and reports of
                    historical societies, published either east or west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . The compiler suggests the desirability of a second volume to include the material
                    omitted. This is desirable because important material is excluded by this limitation. An example is
                    Frederic L. Paxson, "The Pacific Railroads and the Disappearance of the Frontier in
                    America," which appeared in the American Historical Association Annual Report
                        for 1907, a type of publication that is not included in the index.
            To make the volume thoroughly usable, a preface, a table of contents, a list of periodicals and
                    abbrevations, and an author index are included. The table of contents gives the topical arrangement
                    in considerable detail. Each entry in the list of articles is numbered and the author index refers
                    to these numbers. After each entry appears a symbol which indicates the nature of the entry, e. g.,
                    article, bibliographical material, journal or diary, letters, miscellaneous, newspapers, official
                    documents, and reminiscences.
            A perfect piece of work is too much to be expected and omissions may be found. For instance, slight
                    notice is taken of the farmers' movements; the table of contents does not refer to
                    agriculture, farmers, or Populists, and, although some of the literature is included in the index
                    under the separate states, not all of it appears. Whether it will be a substitute for the combing of
                    the tables of contents of western periodicals will depend upon a longer experience in using  the index than is possible in a hurried examination. Certainly
                    it will be invaluable as a check on the search of historical investigators for materials and as a
                    ready means of locating periodical material on western history.
            The amount of work incorporated in the volume may be roughly indicated by the number of entries,
                    3501, or by the fact that 244 volumes of the North American Review were indexed.
            Indiana University
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
         
            List of Contributors
            R. Carlyle Buley is associate professor of history at Indiana University.
            Cecil K. Byrd is curator of special collections at the Indiana University Library.
            Reinhard H. Luthin is a member of the History Department of 
                        Columbia
                     University, 
                        New York
                     City.
            David H. Dickason is an instructor in the Department of English, Indiana University.
            Christopher B. Coleman is the Secretary of the Indiana Historical Society and Director of the Indiana
                    Historical Bureau.
            Cedric C. Cummins is an instructor in history at the Indiana University Extension Division, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            R. H. Woody is professor of history at Duke University, Durham, 
                        North Carolina
                    .
            Robert H. Irrmann is acting instructor in the Department of History at Indiana University.
            Leonard Lundin is an associate professor of history, Indiana University.
            Max P. Allen is an instructor in the 
                        United States
                     Naval Training School at Indiana University.
         
         
         
            Genealogical Section
            Query 119: Lee Family
            Quantrille D. McClung, Chief of the genealogical department in the Public Library, 
                        Denver
                    , 
                        Colorado
                    , would like to get in touch with someone who has information regarding the family of
                    John Lee, who was born in 
                        Switzerland
                     County, Indiana, November 14 or 18, 1816. He was married on March 19, 1840, to Clarinda
                    Davison, who died April 6, 1847. He was married a second time on April 22, 1847, to Permelia (Banta)
                    Haskell. His people were said to have come from 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            Query 120: McFadin Family
            In 1805, Andrew McFadin and his brother Alexander, together with other McFadins (or
                    M'Faddins), founded 
                        Mount Vernon
                    , Indiana, called McFaddin's Bluffs until 1825. Andrew came originally from 
                        North Carolina
                    ; but the family was located in or around Bowling Green, 
                        Kentucky
                    , between 1785 and 1800, possibly on Big Barren River in 
                        Warren
                     County. Andrew's father is said to have fought in the Revolution. Andrew,
                    according to William P. Leonard, History and Directory of 
                            Posey County
                        
                (
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, 1882), 22, fired the first shot at the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .
            Rebecca Hogan (born about 1786, daughter of Rachel Hendricks and a man by the name of Hogan) married
                    Andrew McFadin, of 
                        Mt. Vernon
                    , Indiana. Her mother was a sister of Nancy Hendricks, a cousin of William Hendricks,
                    and an aunt of Peter Hendricks. The last two were pioneers of Indiana.
            Maude McFadin, 2724 East Douglas Avenue, 
                        Wichita
                    , 
                        Kansas
                    , would like to know (1) names, dates, and place of birth of parents of Andrew McFadin,
                    (2) date and place of birth of Andrew McFadin, (3) names of parents of Rachel Hendricks, and (4) the
                    full name of Rachel's husband.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
