
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 16, Issue 4, pages 285-387. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:16+issue:4+year:1920&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Hindostan, Greenwich and Mt. Pleasant. The Pioneer Towns of Martin
                    County.-Memoirs of Thomas Jefferson Brooks
            
               Edited by George R. Wilson.*
            HINDOSTAN
            January 6, 1873.
            Practically the first settlement of 
                        Martin county
                    , then a part of 
                        Daviess county
                    , was at the falls, on the east fork of White river. A few hunters may have built cabins
                    in this territory at an earlier date. Frederick Sholts entered the land and sold it to a company.
                    The company made the after payments on most of it, and laid out the town of Hindostan. Captain
                    Fellows, one of the company, gave the town its name. Captain Fellows had resided in 
                        India
                     many years. Things now looked so bright for a fortune, he said, "let it be
                    Hindostan."
            The company laid out many lots of small dimensions, and many that contained from five to fifty acres.
                    This was in 1818 or 1819. Many were sold at high prices. The sickness of 1819 and 1820 caught the
                    settlers in their log cabins and shanties, and the forest unbroken around them. They were 
                  * Note: Thomas Jefferson Brooks, of a distinguished and renowned family, an
                            early pioneer of 
                                Martin county
                            , and one of the first merchants of Portersville, in Dubois county, was born
                            December 29, 1805, and went to 
                                Martin county
                             in 1823. He lived first at Hindostan, afterwards, for a short time, in 
                                Orange county
                            , then at Mt. Pleasant, and later at Loogootee. For many
                            years he lived on his farm one mile west of the old town of Mt.
                            Pleasant, in 
                                Martin county
                            . He held many offices of public trust. He died December 11, 1882, and now lies
                            buried in God's Acre, at Mt. Pleasant. In his old age he
                            collected valuable information with a view of writing a history of the pioneer days of 
                                Martin county
                            . He passed away before he had all the data compiled. The following items were
                            taken from his collection, and are presented in parctically his own language, by George R.
                            Wilson, of 
                                Jasper
                            , Indiana.
               
                     unacclimated. All were sick but Rufus 
                        Brown
                     and many died. The pioneers had built grist mills, and saw mills, but many became
                    disheartened and found ways to leave, so by the year 1824 they were reduced in numbers, until only
                    onehalf remained. Much of their energy and means were gone, and they had failed to erect the county
                    building.
            These Hindostan pioneers started the manufacture of the famous Hindostan oil stone. They hauled the
                    stone from near French Lick over a road now lost, or nearly so. At first it may have been
                    profitable, but the business yielded to sickness and bad management. By 1824 Hindostan had several
                    well-built houses, and the county could muster a very good regiment on regimental day, with a
                    variety of arms and costumes.
            After 1824, Hindostan went down, and the county seat was taken away. It is now farm land. No man can
                    find a street or lot, and they are no longer so designated on the tax duplicates. Even the Falls
                    have changed-not down, but up. At one time there were several hundred voters at Hindostan; now the
                    only voter there goes miles to get to vote. Such is time.
            The writer thinks back for names of those days; many come at the bidding, and in days after he can
                    recall more and more. Of others he can recall character and circumstances, as well as names. Of
                    others, again, he can tell but little. Many are left and lost to him; here one, there one. I know of
                    only one citizen of the place that came in 1819 now left near me. That is Mrs. William McFee, the
                    mother of Mrs. Thomas M. Gibson, who is now (1873) confined to her room. There are but few
                    descendants of early settlers left within my knowledge.
            Nearly all the Indians had left. Captain John and White Eyes and a few others, and a half-breed
                    family were still here in 1819. William McGowan was killed by an Indian a short time before (1812),
                    a little above Mt. Pleasant. Some thought a white man may have done it on
                    "Indian credit."
            The first man to come to this county that I have met is James Horsey. He came, as a boy, in 1811, to
                    his brother, Lemuel, who came in 1809. He resides here now (1873), a hale old man. Judge Joel
                    Halbert, William Dougherty and  James Stephens were here at an
                    early day; so was Josiah Hunt, from 
                        Ohio
                    . Mr. Halbert came from 
                        South Carolina
                     and settled near the place where the O. & M. [B. & O.] now crosses the
                    river. He bought a large tract of land, but Hindostan was the town, and was to be center of this
                    part of the state.
            The three brothers, John M., Thomas and James Prentiss, were prominent settlers of Hindostan. John
                    and Thomas died; then James went to 
                        New York
                    . There is but one descendant left to my knowledge, a daughter of Thomas, now the wife
                    of John Van Trees of 
                        Washington
                    . She is the mother of a large family.
            Frederick Sholts was an active man. His family is not known here now. His brothers, Mathias and
                    Jacob, left children which are yet in this vicnity. Jesse Shelmire left children; one, Mrs. Graham
                    of 
                        Washington
                    , still lives and has sons and daughters. John Meriam left three daughters. Eliza A. P.
                    married Charles R. Brown, then John Wise of 
                        Vincennes
                    , and is yet living. Mary C. married Lewis Brooks; left two daughters. Helen married
                    William Lewis, has sons and daughters.
            My knowledge is so limited I will not try to name all those early settlers, nor tell whence they
                    came. However, here are a few: Benjamin Adams, native of Newberryport, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , came in 1820. He was a carpenter, and moved to New 
                        Albany
                     in 1825. He lived to an old age. His youngest son, Thomas Adams, was for many years a
                    pilot on the 
                        Mississippi
                    . He is now a hardware merchant in Loogootee. Dr. John Tenant came from
                            
                  Richmond, Virginia
               , but returned east in 1825. Nat Gardner came from
                    "Yankee States." Fred Sholts' father and mother died here. Thomas
                    Fairchild, an Irishman, has children left at 
                        Washington
                    , Indiana. Jesse Shelmire, a merchant, came from 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1819. He died and his family settled on Lost river. His daughters, Mrs. Graham,
                    still lives. Mr. and Mrs. Nye were English. He died here. John Price left. John Wilcox came from New 
                        Albany
                    . His wife was a Heddon. Daniel Hewes came from 
                        Louisville
                     and went back about 1826. Mr. and Mrs. Doane came from 
                        Philadelphia
                    . James and John Eberling were brick makers. Their first kiln of brick would not burn
                    red.  Now, after fifty years, they may be found about the
                    commons as perfect as the day they came from the molds. They were made a little below where Mr.
                    Norcrass has built. John Meriam was a native of Concord, 
                        Massachusetts
                    . He married Eliza Prentiss, who came from 
                        Vermont
                    . Dr. Striclan came from 
                  Richmond,
                            Virginia
               . Cyrus Goff came from 
                        Ohio
                     and went to New 
                        Albany
                     in 1825. Mr. and Mrs. DeLong went back to 
                        New York
                    . Charles R. Brown, lawyer, married E. A. P. Merriam, now Mrs John Wise. Rufus 
                        Brown
                     was a native of 
                        Massachusetts
                    ; came here from 
                        New York
                    . He lived many years. He first married Catherine Berry, and later a Miss Frain. He was
                    the only one escaping the great sickness. His sons, Abner and Thomas, are yet in the county.
                    Sanford, a younger brother, who was a cabinet maker, married a Miss Clements and a Mrs. Doherty.
                    Lewis R. Rogers lived to an old age in this county. He came from 
                        Virginia
                     and left sons and daughters. Julius Johnson came from the state of 
                        New York
                    . John Barnes came from 
                        New York
                    . He was single and left in 1825 or 1826. George Athern, a merchant, died here. Amos and
                    George Harris were carpenters. Their descendants now live in the county. Rev. Pfieffer, an Episcopal
                    clergyman, came in 1822 or 1823, and left in 1825. Jonathan Brody was a colored blacksmith from 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana. Simon Thrasher came from 
                        New York
                    . Samuel Hunt, Henry Hunt, Oliver W. Stephens, Hezekiah Watson, and a man named Emons
                    were citizens. Bentley Taylor moved to Patoka. Joseph Clements was one of the early sheriffs of the
                    county. A man by the name of White used to keep a tavern. John C. Clark and his wife, who was a
                    McCutchen, came from 
                  Chillicothe, Ohio
               . Jonathan Prosser taught school. Arnold
                    Andrews was said to be part Indian. Guy C. Watterman, a carpenter, came from 
                        Boston
                    . Nat Hammett, a saddler, came from 
                        Boston
                    , and has one child living here. A man by the name of Mancer was also a saddler. Charles
                    Allen, John Darniel, Isaac Smith, a man by the name of Seymour, an Irishman by the name of Kelly,
                    and Jacob Lastley also lived at Hindostan. William McFee came from 
                  Alexandria, Virginia
               . The family were English and Irish. Timothy Moses came from 
                        Massachusetts
                    . Arden Moses married Rachiel Pierce. They came from Wheeling. A man by  the name of McGowan left Hindostan and went to 
                        St. Louis
                    . A settler by the name of John Smith was called "Gray Head." An
                    Englishman by the name of Haslam was the first person buried at Hindostan. His widow moved away.
                    Plasters' creek was named after Michael Plasters, a pioneer.
            The above list of names I recall, with the aid of Mrs. McFee. Many of these men had families. I have
                    mentioned those who have descendants in the county, as I recall them, but I am convinced many names
                    are omitted. I know where some are located, but their names are lost to me. The land around
                    Hindostan was entered under the old credit policy of the 
                        United States
                    ; that is, to be paid for on the installment plan. Much of the land was forfeited to the
                    government. Few opened farms, so their supplies had to be brought from 
                        Orange
                     and 
                        Daviess
                     counties. Bread was especially difficult to get. The woods gave them meat. A large
                    saddle of venison could be had for a trifle. The sugar trees gave them sugar. Heavy articles were
                    brought in keel-boats. The pioneers raised corn and hogs. Corn and bacon and the Hindostan oil stone
                    were taken to market in flat boats.
            MT. PLEASANT
            A few items of the early settlement of Mt. Pleasant and vicinity may be of
                    interest. I saw much of the early settlers here when I came, and learned much from them. There never
                    were many Indians about Mt. Pleasant. The last lodge of them lived near the
                    mouth of Boggs' creek, it is said. The first white settler was William McGowan. He was
                    killed by Indians in his cabin, at the place where Harrison's Trace crossed White river,
                    near the island. The others were Hall, Hunt, Davis, Criss, Teverbaugh, Smith and Gootee. Gootee may
                    have been here first. These pioneers were here in 1818 or 1819. Smith was called "Laughing
                    John." There may have been a few other pioneers. Four of these names are no longer with us
                    (1873). Among later settlers were the Raneys, Tewells, Ridge, Myers, Canaries, Rubys, Berrys, and a
                    host of others, mostly from 
                        Kentucky
                    . Some had money to enter land, paid part, and carried part on time, as land was then
                    sold. Times became hard and many of them forfeited their land for non-payment. Congress allowed
                    relinquishment of  one tract to fully pay on another. Those
                    times tried. There were no roads, no wagons. No produce they could make would pay to haul to the
                        Ohio river, seventy miles. Only a few skins brought any money in. What they
                    brought went into the land office, never to circulate here any more.
            An incident was related of one of the first families who came. They slept in troughs, and if a
                    neighbor dropped in, the children would run to hide their nakedness to the troughs and pull the
                    skins over them. But workers dressed skins for their children. Even young ladies had buckskin
                    dresses and moccasins to match. If thread was needed, the woman went to her wheel with a distaff
                    full of flax and made it. (If you do not know what a distaff is, ask some old pioneer woman.) If the
                    mother wanted soap, she started the boys and dogs for 'possums for their oil. If her
                    needle got lost, a child was sent perhaps a mile to borrow one. The wash tubs were troughs. The
                    first settlers on Mr. Gibson's place went there March 1, 18-. He and his wife, now
                    living, cleared land enough to grow corn for themselves and sold some to newcomers. She says they
                    burned logs "till way in the night" every night. Later in life, one morning, she
                    took her child and some linen thread and went a mile, wove six yards of goods, took it half a mile
                    to a little store, and got six yards of calico and came home by night. She says: "Women
                    worked, if they did not vote."
            John Smith, of laughing notoriety, settled where Nicholas Cussick now lives (1873), in section one,
                    township two north, range five west. It is told of him that upon meeting a Kentuckian at Hindostan,
                    a wager was made as to who could laugh the longer. After an hour or more of a "set
                    to," lying down, rolling over amid a large laughing crowd, witnessing the trial, the
                    Kentuckian gave up. Smith said to him, "I had only begun to smile." Smith had a
                    large family. All left Hindostan but one daughter.
            A bride of 1818 related this incident to me a few days ago. When they were on their way to this
                    (Martin) county, they passed through 
                        Louisville
                    . She had two dollars, so she bought cups and saucers (not a hat, such as our girls
                    delight to have on their heads). She took them in her lap on her horse. On crossing the 
                        Ohio
                    , she set them down to assist with  the stock, and
                    the stock broke them. She gathered the sound ones and the pieces and brought all along to within a
                    mile of her intended final camp. A settler who had been here two years rushed from his cabin, with
                    his leather apron thumping on his leather pants, to greet the new neighbors that were to be. He
                    frightened her horse, and she was thrown, and more dishes were broken. She saved the pieces, and for
                    nearly ten years she had no others. This new couple worked hard for themselves and others. They
                    reared thirteen children. Seven boys are now (1873) living, all well-to-do farmers. The girls are
                    doing their full part in building up our country. The father is yet with us, goes to his daily
                    labor, rejoicing over the prosperity of his children. Their mother toiled early and late in the
                    cotton and flax patches, at the wheel and loom to clothe them. Is it not time we gather together the
                    names of such fathers and mothers? They settled at Loogootee, but before the town was
                    there.
            Miss E. A. P. Merriam, who became the wife of Attorney Charles R. Brown, and after his death the wife
                    of John Wise of 
                        Vincennes
                    , in 1872, wrote Thomas J. Brooks as follows: 
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                    Vincennes
                                 ,
                           
                                    November 6, 1872.
                        Mr. Thos. J. Brooks:
                        DEAR SIR:
                        Yours of the 25th was received. With regard to the early settlement of 
                                        Martin county
                                    , could I see you I could give much information that might interest as
                                    well as amuse you relative to many little incidents that occurred when we first came
                                    to the county, which was in July, 1818, in company with my uncle, Thomas G.
                                    Prentiss' family and Dr. Porter's from 
                              Lexington, Kentucky
                           . We stopped at Porter's Retreat, three
                                    miles from Mt. Pleasant, remained until March, 1819, when my
                                    father, together with my uncles, James and John M. Prentiss, came out and purchased
                                    a farm at the Falls of White river from Colonel Fred Sholts (colonel of a militia
                                    company at this place), and laid out the town of Hindostan. Caleb Fellows becoming
                                    one of the proprietors, and being the eldest, as a matter of courtesy was requested
                                    to name the town. Having spent some time in 
                                        India
                                    , and being partial to the country, gave it the name of Hindostan. Judge
                                    Halbert was appointed one of the commissioners to lay off the county seat. At the
                                    expiration of a year our town numbered five hundred inhabitants; people flocked in
                                    from every direction, and many were obliged to occupy their boats for houses, as
                                    they came by water. General Harrison, when on his way to 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , took tea with us, on a dry goods box, and enjoyed it as much as if we
                                    had been in a palace. At that time a table was a scarce article; we were obliged to
                                    send to Liverpool (
                                        Washington
                                    ), twenty-one miles, to get one. I spent that winter at Mr.
                                    Savage's.  in 
                                        Louisville
                                    . While there was shopping with a Miss Bakewell, when we met two
                                    gentlemen, who inquired who I was, and being told I was from Hindostan, followed me
                                    into the store. After taking a good look at me, remarked, I was "whiter
                                    than the Americans." His friend laughed heartily, as he supposed he had
                                    seen a live Hindoo direct from 
                                        India
                                    . The summer following quite a number of our friends came out from 
                                        Louisville
                                     to spend a few weeks. While there the sickness commenced and they were
                                    obliged to return. That fall my uncle, Thomas Prentiss, and wife died, together with
                                    John M. Prentiss, Nat Gardner, Mr. Bond (a nephew of my father's from 
                                        Boston
                                    ), and my uncle's housekeeper, Mrs. Childs. But one person,
                                    Rufus 
                                        Brown
                                    , in the town escaped being affected by the dreadful scourge. I regret
                                    not being able to fill your blanks, as I have not the dates. Shall have to reger you
                                    to my sister, who has the family Bible, and Julius Porter of Greenville, from whom
                                    you may derive considerable information.
                        Charles R. Brown was born in Southbury, 
                                        Connecticut
                                    , graduated at Yale College, 
                                        New Haven
                                    , came to this county, 1818, practiced law in 
                                        Washington
                                     until twenty-one when he came to Hindostan and we were married May 7th.
                                    He died in 
                                        Washington
                                    , April 5, 1831, aged thirty-six years and five months. He had five
                                    children, two of whom are with me; the others died quite young.
                     
                  
               
            
            MR. WILSON'S SUPPLEMENT
            
               
                        Martin county
                     was organized by an act of the legislature, January 17, 1820, and the act went into
                    effect February 1, 1820. It has had many county seat changes, but these changes are of more recent
                    years and do not come within the scope of this article. Benjamin Adams had the contract to build a
                    court house at Hindostan for $4, 185. The contract was made June 5, 1820. Mt.
                        Pleasant became the county seat September 1, 1828. The first court in 
                        Martin county
                     convened at the house of Joseph D. Clements, in the town of Hindostan, on Friday, March
                    17, 1820. Jonathan Doty was president judge, and Ezekiel Porter and Frederick Sholtz associate
                    judges. James Prentiss, mentioned by Mr. Brooks, was an associate, but he left the county in August,
                    1825. Rufus 
                        Brown
                    , so singularly spoken of, became a probate judge, August 20, 1829. John R. Porter
                    became a president judge, July 28, 1824, and served until January 20, 1830. General W. Johnson,
                    spoken of as the first land owner at Mt. Pleasant, was a president judge, in
                    1831.
            Hindostan Falls are known only by the name Falls in the survey records of Nathan Bent, the government
                    surveyor who surveyed the township containing the Falls, in December,  1804. The Falls are thirty-one chains south of a point thirteen chains
                    east of the northwest corner of section ten, township two north, of range four west. On the section
                    line just above the Falls the river is six and one-half chains (429 feet) across. The Falls have a
                    drop of between three and four feet. The river at the Hindostan neighborhood is about 145 yards
                    across.
            Hindostan was in section ten, township two north, range four west. It was platted between March 13
                    and May 29, 1819. There was a ferry between the town of Hindostan and the town of Greenwich.
            Often the man who entered a piece of land, on the partial payment plan, would sell his claim, in
                    which case the patent was issued to the buyer of the claim, and the sale was usually dated at the
                    time final settlement was made, thus a tract of land was often cultivated many months before the
                    recorded date.
            On October 20, 1814, Frederick Sholts entered land at Hindostan. On March 3, 1819, he sold a
                    three-fourths interest in the land on which Hindostan was afterward laid out, and town lots twelve
                    and twenty-four in Greenwhich, to John Meriam. Greenwich was the first town laid out at the Falls.
            On December 10, 1807, Frederick Sholts entered 524 acres, all of section ten east and north of White
                    river, and on November 17, 1815, he entered 188 acres, all of section nine north of White river. On
                    December 10, 1807, John T. Mansfield entered 398 acres, all in section nine, and 66 acres, all in
                    section ten, south and west of White river. He also entered 92.52 acres in section eight; part of it
                    as late as June 28, 1839. In September, 1830, Frederick Sholts gave notice of forfeited land stock
                    in sections one, seven and eight, township two north, range four west, and claimed his rights under
                    the law of March 31, 1830.
            In the Western Sun of November 16, 1822, appears a notice of the sale of fifty-six
                    lots in the town of Hindostan, by Lewis R. Rogers, clerk of 
                        Martin county
                    , wherein Charles R. Brown, one of the administrators of the estate of John M. Prentiss,
                    deceased, offers these lots for sale. Notices of the proposed sale were also published in 
                        Louisville
                     papers, and posted at Frederick Sholts' tavern and John C.
                    Clark's tavern.
            
            In the Western Sun and General Advertiser, on October 9, 1824, is a copy of a tax
                    collector's sale, wherein hundreds of acres of land about Hindostan and Mt.
                        Pleasant, and many lots in the towns of Hindostan, Greenwich and Mt.
                        Pleasant, are offered for sale for taxes due. The sale took place at the house of
                    Frederick Sholts, in Hindostan, on Monday, November 15, 1824.
            The following notice concerning Hindostan is taken from the diary of William Faux, who passed over
                    the Trace in 1819, on his way to visit the Birkbeck Settlement in southern 
                        Illinois
                    : 
                  
                     
                        October 29, 1819.
                        Breakfasted at an infant ville, Hindostan, on the falls of White river, a broad,
                                    crystal stream, running navigable to the 
                                        Ohio
                                     (
                                        Wabash
                                    ), over a bed of sand and stone, smooth and white as a floor of marble.
                                    The baby ville is flourishing, much building is in progress, and promises to become
                                    a pleasant, healthy town before I see it again. The land, too, is rich and inviting.
                                    I now crossed White river in my chariot.
                     
                  
               
            
            In John Scott's Indiana Gazetteer, published at 
                        Centerville
                    , in 1826, page 68, this mention is made of Hindostan: 
                        The county seat of 
                                Martin county
                             is situated on the east bank of the east fork of White river, eleven miles
                            north of Portersville, eighteen east of 
                                Washington
                            , thirty-five south of 
                                Burlington
                            , fifteen west of Paoli, and eighty-five southwest from 
                                Indianapolis
                            , north latitude 380 30', west longitude 90 40'.
                    
            
            In the Western Sun, April 1, 1820, Edmund Dana, a great traveler and explorer,
                    advertised the sale of his book, Geographical Sketches of the Western Country, by
                    subscription. Among the men to whom subscriptions might be given was John M. Prentiss, Hindostan. It
                    is a curious fact that Dana's book mentions about every town and village at that time in
                    Indiana, except this group of 
                        Martin county
                     towns.
            On page 203 of Early Western Travels, Volume XI, appears this memorandum: 
                        The first settler came to Hindostan in 1817, and some six additional families arrived before
                            the town was platted (1819). It was chosen as the seat of 
                                Martin county
                             upon its organization (1820), but the site proved so unhealthful that it was
                            abandoned.
                    
            
            In the Indiana Gazetteer, published in 1833, on page 86. is this entry: 
                        Hindostan, a village in 
                                Martin county
                            , on the east fork of White river, about three miles south of Mount Pleasant. It
                            was formerly the  seat of justice of 
                                Martin county
                            , but since the establishment of Mount Pleasant as the county seat, Hindostan
                            has been gradually declining, and is now nearly depopulated.
                    
            
            In the same book, page 127, is this record: 
                        Mount Pleasant, a post town and seat of justice, of 
                                Martin county
                            . It is situated on the west bank of the east fork of White river, on the state
                            road leading from New 
                                Albany
                             to 
                                Vincennes
                            . The site is elevated about a hundred and fifty feet above the bed of the
                            river. There are several springs of excellent water in and near the town, and it is
                            surrounded by an extensive body of good farming land, a part of which is of the richest
                            quality. It contains about thirty dwelling houses and one hundred and fifty inhabitants. The
                            public buildings are a jail and a spacious brick court house. It has four mercantile stores,
                            one tavern, a postoffice, two preachers of the gospel, two physicians, one common school
                            with a good teacher, a number of craftsmen of various trades, and a mill propelled by horse
                            power. It is about eighty-seven miles southwest from 
                                Indianapolis
                            , north latitude 380 35', west longitude 90 40'.
                    
            
            Books were opened at Mt. Pleasant on the first Monday in June, 1830, for the
                    sale of stock in the New 
                        Albany
                     and Vincennas turnpike.
            The Historical Atlas of Indiana, 1876, pages 324 and 325, says: 
                        
                     Mt. Pleasant was the first settlement. William McGowan settled there in
                            1811 and conducted a ferry on the road from Clarksville. Hindostan was the second
                            settlement, 1817. Frederick Sholts was one of the founders. In 1818 Joseph Clements, John
                            Prentiss, Henry and Thomas Prentiss, George Harris, the Shelmire family and Lewis Brooks
                            arrived. William Hunter and John Ray came in 1819.
                    
            
            Morris Birkbeck, an English 
                        Quaker
                     farmer, in 1817, made a trip through Indiana. In a well written report, published in
                    1818, is found this reference to Schultz's tavern: 
                        July 12, 1817. This beautiful country continues as far as Schultz's Tavern, on
                            White river, thirty-six miles east of 
                                Vincennes
                            . Most of this hilly district is unentered, and remains open to the public at
                            two dollars an acre. July 13, 1817. The road from Schultz's Tavern to this place (
                                Vincennes
                            ), thirty-six miles, is partly across "barrens," that is, land
                            of middling quality, thinly set with timber, or covered with long grass and shrubby
                            underwood.
                    
            
            In the memoirs of William Forster, a minister of the Society of Friends in 
                        England
                    , in 1821, who spent several months in Indiana, are these words: 
                        11th Mo. 29th [1821]. We came eight miles to a late breakfast in Hindostan a newly begun town
                            of about twenty houses. Our road so  far, like that we
                            travelled yesterday, was hilly and the country but thinly inhabited. We ferried the river,
                            which we are told is four hundred yards [feet] in width; and after ascending a hill, had a
                            fine level road, etc. On the second day we had an agreeable ride through the woods to
                                Mt. Pleasant. On the third day we were at a small and newly settled
                            meeting there.
                    
            
            Captain William Newnham Blaney, an English gentleman, visited the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                     in 1822-23. From his report these extracts are taken: 
                        At Greenville, a collection of straggling cabins, I stopped at a house kept by a Mr. Porter,
                            a man from the New 
                                England
                             states. This tavern, though small, was without exception the most clean and
                            comfortable I had ever been in since I crossed the Alleghenies. Whenever indeed you stop at
                            the house of a New Englander, you are certain to receive more attention, and to find
                            everything cleaner and of a better quality, than in a tavern kept by a Southern or Western
                            man. Before arriving at Hindostan, a small village on the east fork of White river, the
                            country becomes very hilly; and, being on that account thinly settled, abounds with game of
                            all descriptions.
                    
            
            In The Western Sun and Advertiser, May 23, 1818, and for several weeks thereafter,
                    appeared an advertisement for the sale of town lots in the town of Greenwich, signed by William
                    Harris, in which he announced the sale of lots, July 14, 1818. Among other things here is the write
                    up: 
                        This is one of the most eligible sites for a town in the forks of White river, and possesses
                            several very important advantages; one of the most distinguished is the great site for water
                            works, which appears calculated for mills to any extent, and will be partially improved this
                            season, by the completion of a saw mill that was commenced last summer by Captain F. Sholts.
                            The navigation of White river will also be of great improvement to this town; whenever the
                            interior part of this state becomes thickly settled the merchant mills erected at these
                            falls will undoubtedly be supplied with wheat for the 
                                New Orleans
                             market, from a great distance up the river. The adjacent country is generally
                            land of the second quality; a large portion of it tillable, and it will admit of a populous
                            settlement. The main road from 
                                Kentucky
                             through 
                                Louisville
                             to 
                                Vincennes
                             and 
                                St. Louis
                            , and also the road from the state of 
                                Ohio
                             to those places, crosses White river at Greenwich.
                    
            
            This form of advertisement was common in those days. Nearly all of them were in the superlative
                    degree. On July 20, 1818, six days later, lots were sold at Portersville, the first county seat of
                    Dubois county, situated on White river, about eleven miles below Greenwich. The advertisement for
                    Portersville was also in promising colors.
            
            The diary of Richard Lee Mason of 
                        Maryland
                    , a soldier of the war of 1812, contains this item: 
                  
                     
                        Friday, November 5, 1819. Traveled over an extremely mountainous country to White
                                    river (east fork), where a town was laid out last May. Promising little place.
                                    Several houses building, together with the industrious appearance of saw and grist
                                    mills, give it the appearance of a place of business. Little town is called
                                    Hindostan.
                     
                  
               
            
            David Thomas, an American pomologist, florist, and writer on agricultural subjects, born in 1776,
                    made a journey through this part of Indiana in 1816. In his journal as of July 4, 1816, he writes: 
                  
                     
                        As the last gleamings of the day were departing, we arrived at Schult's,
                                    near the Driftwood branch of White river. This tavern is a recent establishment. The
                                    proprietor, formerly from 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    , but latterly from Seneca county, in 
                                        New York
                                    , has adopted the eastern mode of clearing land, and at once lays it
                                    open to the day. The pleasantness of the prospect, the safety of the cattle, and the
                                    excellence of the crop, which now promises to exceed by one-half every other that we
                                    have seen in the country, will strongly recommend this method to his neighbors. Last
                                    evening we had heard the noise of the falls a distance of a mile or two over the
                                    hills, and on approaching, I found the water to pitch down about four feet over a
                                    level sand rock, extending straight across the river. The thick woods on the
                                    opposite shore, the clear sky, the smooth expanse of water, the foam of the cascade,
                                    and the unbroken quiet, formed one of the sweetest seenes of solitude. Avoiding the
                                    force of the stream, small fish in great numbers had come in close with the shore;
                                    and, eager to ascend the little currents from ledge to ledge, were so crowded
                                    together that I could take them up by handfuls.
                     
                  
               
            
            The 
                        United States
                     postoffice and post roads map of 1839, locates Hindostan and Mt.
                    Pleasant, and shows that the mail carrier had to go to Hindostan, but crossed the river
                    at Mt. Pleasant.
            In the Western Sun, August 7, 1819, the postmaster general of the 
                        United States
                     advertised for men to carry the mail from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                     130 miles, once a week, as follows: 
                        From 
                                Louisville
                             by 
                                Jeffersonville
                            , Utica, 
                        Charlestown,
                                    Salem
                     , Paoli, 
                                Shelby
                            , Liverpool [
                                Washington
                            , Indiana] and Hawkin's Ferry to 
                                Vincennes
                            .
                    
            
            This route would pass by Mt. Pleasant. The order bears date of May 26, 1819.
            In the state library there is on file a letter written by J. Doane to John Tipton, Esqr., sheriff of
                    Harrison county,  dated July 19, 1820. It is postmarked
                    Hindostan, Ia., July 19. The postage was ten cents. A circular wooden or metal stamp was used in
                    impressing the words "Hindostan, Ia." on the letter. John Tipton became General
                    John Tipton, and a 
                        United States
                     senator from Indiana.
            At the second session of the fifteenth congress a post road was established from 
                        Princeton
                    , by 
                        Columbia
                     and Petersburg, and the seat of justice [Portersville] in Dubois county, to Paoli. At
                    the same session a post road was also established from 
                        Jeffersonville
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    , via Greenville, 
                        Fredericksburg
                    , Paoli and 
                        Washington
                    . (Wester Sun, Saturday, July 31, 1819.) This last route evidently
                    passed through Hindostan. In the 
                        Princeton
                    -Paoli notice the seat of justice for Dubois county was identified by these words:
                    "Dubois Court House" (being the McDonald fort in Dubois county).
            On December 31, 1821, the General Assembly enacted a law, one section of which reads as follows:
                        
                        Section 7. That the road from 
                                Rockport
                             to Portersville, thence to Hindostan, thence to 
                                Bloomington
                            , be and the same is established in length eighty miles; that the sum of five
                            thousand four hundred and seventeen dollars be appropriated, and that Joseph D. Clements of 
                                Martin county
                            , Michael Buskirk of 
                                Monroe
                             and Sam Snyder of 
                                Spencer
                             be appointed commissioners, etc.
                    
            
            A map published in 1834, by S. A. Mitchell, shows a road from 
                        Rockport
                     to Mt. Pleasant by way of 
                        Jasper
                     and Portersville.
            In Readings in Indiana History, page 236, this appears: 
                        In the days before bridges there were necessarily far more ferries than at present. Every
                            county had licensed ferrymen. On the 
                                Louisville
                            -
                                Vincennes
                             stage road there were two well-known ferries, one over Driftwood at
                            Houghton's or Mount Pleasant, the other over White river at Maysville. The
                            ferryman was usually a tavernkeeper as well.
                    
            
            General 
                        Washington
                     Johnson, the first to enter land at Mt. Pleasant, was postmaster
                    at 
                        Vincennes
                    . He was commissioned to organize Dubois county, February, 1818. He was born in 
                        Virginia
                    , in 1783, and was the first member of the 
                        Knox county
                     bar. He was the "father of Masonry" in Indiana, being the prime mover
                    in establishing 
                        Vincennes
                     Lodge No. 1, F. & A. M., March, 1809. Johnson was a hero of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and was promoted quartermaster from the ranks, October 30, 1811. He was auditor of
                    public accounts,  adjutant general, treasurer of Indiana
                    territory, etc. He served as state representative during the sixth, eleventh, thirteenth and
                    fourteenth sessions of the General Assembly. Part of the time he was speaker of the house. In all he
                    was a very active pioneer official and citizen. He died October 26, 1833.
            General Johnson never forgot his dignity and aristocratic training. In his early days he always
                    appended the word "gentleman" after signing his name. He had a colored slave named
                    Mary Clark, who had bound herself to Johnson by an indenture dated October 24, 1816, to serve him
                    for twenty years. After one of the hardest fought legal battles of pioneer days, she was discharged
                    from her servitude. This was the death of slavery in Indiana, five years after the Constitution of
                    1816. Slaves were considered convenient, and for that reason they were called "voluntary
                    servants" by an agreement with them in writing, in which they worked out their freedom.
                    Their introduction was permitted by the territorial legislature previous to 1816. The Corydon
                    constitution prohibited slavery forever in Indiana. Many well-to-do citizens about 
                        Vincennes
                     had "voluntary servants." That was the "slave
                    section" of Indiana; the 
                        Charlestown
                     and Corydon sections opposed slavery.
            General Johnson was a noted orator and lawyer of his day and generation. He could melt a jury into
                    tears or bring it up to a state of frenzy. Perhaps the first effort to issue a law book of any kind
                    in Indiana, at private expense, was made by General Johnson, in 1817. He called his work a Compound of Acts, 1807-1814. This volume is very rare now. One book would bring
                    more today than Johnson received for his entire edition in 1817.
            The Hon. Wm. E. Niblack of 
                        Vincennes
                     began the practice of law at Mt. Pleasant in 1854. He was born at
                    Portersville, May 22, 1822, was a surveyor, a lawyer, state representative, state senator, circuit
                    judge, congressman, Democratic national committeeman and judge of the Supreme Court of Indiana. He
                    died at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , May 7, 1893.
            The Dr. Porter mentioned (also on page 353 of Wilson History of 
                            Dubois County
                        ) was Dr. Ezekiel Porter of Porter's Retreat, three miles south of
                        Mt. Pleasant and four miles west of Hindostan Falls. The
                    "retreat" was in section twelve of  township
                    two north, of range five west. The Porters came from Rutland, 
                        Vermont
                    , staying for a time about 
                  Lexington,
                            Kentucky
               . Dr. Porter's wife
                    was Eunice G. Pomroy, but she died in 
                        Vermont
                    , 1814. Dr. Porter had six children, namely, Laura G., Daniel Pomroy, James W., Julius
                    R., Harriet E. and Caroline M. Laura G. Porter became the wife of Thomas G. Prentiss. Their
                    daughter, Laura, became Mrs. John Van Trees of 
                        Washington
                    , Indiana.
            In 1872 Julius R. Porter lived at Greenville, Floyd county, Indiana, and Caroline M. (Porter) Grover
                    lived at 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana. The others had passed to the silent beyond previous to October 24, 1872.
            Daniel P. Porter married Lydia Gould. James W. Porter was married twice. Julius R. Porter married
                    Elizabeth Berry. Caroline M. Porter became Mrs. Grover. Harriet Porter remained single.
            Dr. Ezekiel Porter died in 
                        Martin county
                    ; D. P. Porter at Greenville; James W. Porter at Cloverport, 
                        Kentucky
                    ; Laura G. Prentiss at Hindostan, and Harriet E. Porter at Greenville.
            Portersville, in Dubois county, was named in honor of that member of the Porter family who was a
                    relative of Judge Arthur Harbison of Dubois county.
            Judge Jonathan Doty, often mentioned in connection with the pioneer court at Hindostan, was also the
                    presiding judge at the first court held in Dubois county. He was born at Somerville, 
                        New Jersey
                    , and was a graduate of 
                        Princeton
                    . He died February 22, 1822, while in office. 
                        Prior to 1820, a store or trading post was established at Hindostan, probably on Captain
                            Kibley's road by Lewis Brooks, and from his store supplies for hunters, pioneers,
                            etc., were taken down White river on boats to Portersville, the first "county
                            town" of Dubois county. It was two miles from Portersville to the Buffalo trace,
                            thus this plan connected the two forks of this road and furnished a connecting link in event
                            of Indian trouble. Thomas J. Brooks conducted the store at Portersville. The tradition is
                            that the Brooks's brought their goods "on east," i. e., 
                                Cincinnati
                            . They were Yankees and came from Concord, 
                                Massachusetts
                            . Hindostan failed during the pestilence in Indiana between 1820 and 1822. (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. 6, pp. 353-5.)
                    
            
            In 1825 John Reily of Hindostan was an agent for the 
                    Masonic Register, which was printed and published at 
                        Vevay
                    , by Wm. C. Keen, R. A. M. (Western Sun).
            
            In 1838 the General Assembly of Indiana appointed Wm. K. Jones of 
                        Spencer county
                    , Willis Hayes of Dubois county and John Gwynn of 
                        Martin county
                     as commissioners to lay out a state road from 
                        Rockport
                    , by way of Gentryville and 
                        Jasper
                     to Haysville, then by the nearest and best route to Mount Pleasant, in 
                        Martin county
                    . (Acts 1837-8, p. 328.)
            The Indiana legislature of 1843 appointed A. L. Bladgrave of Dubois county, Ezekiel 
                        Rutherford
                     and Wm. B. Pine of 
                        Martin county
                    , commissioners to view, mark and locate a state road from Haysville to Hindostan, by
                    way of Pine's Mill.
            On July 24, 1826, Dr. Lawrence S. Shuler, in a long letter, dated at Hindostan, announced himself as
                    a candidate for congress. The letter appeared in the Western Sun, July 29, 1826.
                    He was president of the Indiana Medical Society. He was a native of 
                  Montgomery county, New York
               ,
                    and died August 4, 1827, at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , of consumption.
            Joseph D. Clements used to advertise in the Western Sun, in 1826, that he had
                    procured the art of curing persons troubled with stammering.
            General John Tipton introduced the bill that took away part of Dubois county and attached it to 
                        Martin county
                    . Fred Sholts was active in this movement. He also asked for a survey of the falls at
                    Hindostan the same year.
            In 1823 mail was carried from Palestine by way of Hindostan to Portersville, thence on to Corydon.
            What is said to have been the first attempt to rob the mails in Indiana occurred a short distance
                    from Hindostan on the night of March 15, 1830. The rider was struck with a club and injured, but his
                    horses ran away. There were three ruffians in the gang. (
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Gazette, April 8, 1830, copied from the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Public Advertiser.)
            
            In the Western Sun, June 6, 1818, its readers were warned of the danger of exposure
                    to smallpox, reported to have been brought west from 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Philadelphia
                     by emigrants, travelers, etc., who put up at taverns. Perhaps this was the source of
                    the downfall of Hindostan. During 1819 many advertisements and communications appeared giving
                    recipes  for the cure of smallpox, cholera morbus and yellow
                    fever. Settlers came to Indiana by trails and streams. Keel boats were used in traveling up stream,
                    thus in various ways sickness could have been brought into the early settlements. The cause of the
                    sickness at Hindostan does not appear clear. Other settlements also suffered, but in a smaller way.
            The story of Hindostan, Greenwich and Mt. Pleasant, now a century old, is worth
                    a careful study on the part of the history students of southern Indiana and of 
                        Martin county
                     in particular. All available data should be compiled and preserved. It is worth while.
                    It is very gratifying to record that the data left by Mr. Brooks is in keeping with written and
                    printed reports, many from 
                        England
                     and of which he had no knowledge. His information came from other sources, mostly
                    personal knowledge.
         
         
         
            A Pioneer Wedding
            Letter1 from Catherine M. Noble Davidson2 to Margaret A.
                        Sullivan.3
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 
                              
                           
                                    May (June) 6th, '40.
                        My Dearest Friend
                        I perused your letter with a mixture of pleasure and pain. I was delighted to hear
                                    from the dearest girl to me on earth and was pained when I found that you were
                                    wounded at my sending an notice of my marriage with the respects
                                    of Mrs. A. H. Davidson, and that you imagined that as I was
                                    forming new interests that I had not still a place in my heart for
                                    you. I will tell you about the paper. I requested Mr. Davidson4
                                    to get me a Journal containing a notice of our marriage, to send to you. he got it
                                    and wrote on it and addressed it to you with his own hand. he said with respects of
                                    Mrs. A. H. D. as much as fun, of seeing it written as for anything, else, and I
                                    know, he did not once think that respects would sound cold and formal and as I was dressing for making rather returning calls I did not write myself.
                                    Mag, forget this and feel assured that there is not another girl
                                    on the earth, for whom I entertain pure, disinterested, unmixed affection except
                                    yourself you Mag. Since you (1) have (been) away from you I have learned how (to)
                                    appreciate your excellent and amiable qualities. I am not flattering Not (a) day
                                    passes away that I do not remember you and am not reminded of some act or expression
                                    of kindness towards me. Mag I have to dwell on your character, energy is your prominent characteristick. In yourself are united two qualities
                                    which are irrisistible, the most accute sensitiveness, to joy or grief in your own
                                    person, and the most lively sympathy with the 
                              
                                 1 This letter was presented to the Indiana State
                                            Library by a granddaughter of Catherine Noble Davidson, Miss Valette Miller
                                            of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            . With her assistance and that of others who are related to the
                                            old families of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , the identify of most of the persons mentioned in the letter
                                            has been ascertained. The wedding, described in the letter, took place in
                                            the old Noble homestead, which stood on Market street, near what is now
                                            Cruse street, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            . ESTHER U. MCNITT, Indiana State Library.
                              
                              
                                 2 Daughter of Governor Noah Noble.
                              
                                 3 Daughter of Judge Jeremiah Sullivan.
                              
                                 4 Alexander H. Davidson, 1812-63,
                                            quartermaster-general of Indiana, 1839-44.
                           
                                     feelings of others. Mag
                                    excuse me but I can (not) refrain from pouring out the sentiment of my heart and
                                    soul in regard to yourself. I will now tell you about my wedding how I was attired
                                    for the occasion. On the 19th about 7-oiclock we were united hand
                                    and heart in the presence of nearly 200, hundred persons. I can
                                    not say in their presence for they had to stand in the front hall,
                                    and in the yard, and of course there were many that did not witness the ceremony.
                                    The candles were not lighted until afterwards. My dress was of White Satin very rich
                                    and thick dead white. The bosom made with folds across, with one row of shell
                                    trimming around the neck, two rows on the sleeves. The skirt long
                                        without any trimming deep blonde on the sleeves. My
                                    gloves white kid satin on the tops and edged with blonde. My hair was plaited behind
                                    and my Grecian curls were curled very beautifully and worn behind curls in front.
                                    Mock orange blossoms were sent to me to wear in my hair. I wore them in front buried
                                    in my curls and beautiful white rose in behind. My shoes were of light
                                        kid the (y) were entirely white at candle light. My
                                    pocket-kerchief was trimed with deep lace. Mrs Williams came in the room we were in before the gentlemen came and she offered me her chain and watch which I wore and completed my
                                    dress. E. Browning's5 dress was of some thin kind of
                                    goods of I do not know the name with a broad satin stripe and a vine in it and
                                    something between the stripes. It was very beautifull, looked like a blonde dress.
                                    M. Yandis6 dress was trimmed with satin on the skirts and on the
                                    bosoms likewise Jane Rings. They all looked well. pretty E. B. & Dr Bobbs7 went in first. (I mistake) O Neal8
                                    & J. R. went in first, and stepped to the right of the place in the front
                                    parlour, Jane retaining O N's arm, and then E. B. & Dr B. went in
                                    next, and stood to the left near the folding doors, she still leaning on Dr
                                    B.'s arm. M. Y. and Hubbard9 went in and parted to
                                    make room for Mr 
                              
                                 5 Elizabeth L. Browning, daughter of Edmund Browning
                                            She later married Samuel V. B. Noel. Nowland, J. H. B., Reminiscences of 
                                                    Indianapolis
                                                
                                  (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1870), p. 192.
                              
                                 6 Mary Yandes, daughter of Daniel Yandes of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            .
                              
                                 7 Dr. John S. Bobbs, 1809-70, a prominent surgeon of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            .
                              
                                 8 Probably Hugh O'Neal, who came to 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             in 1821. Nowland, p. 112.
                              
                                 9 Probably William S. Hubbard, 1816-1907. He came to 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             in 1837. Nowland, p. 331.
                           
                                    
                                    Davidson and Catherine who followed and stood
                                    between M. Y. and Hubbard Catherine still having D.'s arm, immediately in
                                    the front of the fire place. Imagine us thus arranged Mr Beecher10 in front of the semicircle, and a dozen upon the sofa
                                    chairs and pressing near to get a glimpse. I was calm, composed as one could be on
                                    any ocaision. I felt Mr. Davidson's heart beat next to my arm. Now the
                                    prayer begins which is quite long beautiful appropriate
                                    (mutilated) it made (me) thrill, with emotions pleasure of the most peculiar
                                    character. Beecher knew all the circumstances of the former engagement, and he made
                                    a very delicate allusion to it. The ceremony was short. Mr Beecher kissed us both
                                    and said it was done now he was sick and was carried into a room
                                    to lie down. friends relations pressed forward to offer their congratulations. My
                                    attendants were the first to kiss me. When the door was thrown open for us to enter
                                    the parlour there was Duncan standing immediately in the view. Mag I ought perhaps
                                    not to mention Duncan's name but there are subjects I dare not touch upon on paper at least. wait
                                    till I see you. but I digress too often from the subject. Our
                                    supper was between eight and nine The bed was taken out of
                                    mother's room the tables were set one opposite the fire place and the (n)
                                    down the sides from the one, opposite the fireplace in the centre of the room
                                    between the tables was a small mahogany candle stand,11 round top covered with a white cloth, bearing the Brides cake
                                    which was very splendid. a large pyramid was at the head of the table. We had
                                    elegant jelly cake and other kinds in fruit baskets and cut up in slices set in
                                    plates, tea coffee ice creams were sent around in the parlour
                                    afterward I have not told you how Mr D. was dressed. It was a rich suit of Broad
                                    cloth black satin vest, stock, frock coat, boots very handsome
                                    made for the express purpose, a pocket handkerchief that I gave him. his appearance
                                    was very fine looked extremely handsome very animated. his attendants were dressed
                                    in the same style. Well Mag I am as happy as mortal man can make me! I
                                    feel as if I had indeed, entered into a new state of being and that 
                              
                                 10 Henry Ward Beecher, pastor of the Second
                                            Presbyterian Church of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1839-47, Dunn, J. P., Greater 
                                                    Indianapolis
                                                
                                  (Chic., 1910), I, p. 582.
                              
                                 11 This table is now in the possession of Miss Valette
                                            Miller.
                           
                                     I had my part to perform in great theater of
                                    human life, as if a good deal was expected from me, and that I know, must begin to
                                    take my own stand in society and must depend upon myself. I wish you were in the
                                    same new existence and near me to begin the world with me. Mag, marry some person
                                    and come and live in 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . When you are engaged wont you let me know? I am invited t
                                    odine at Mr Beecher's today, and I am looking for Mr D. to come and go
                                    with me. We are going to a party tonight at James Morrison's12 Alex Morrison13 has given one which we
                                    attended. There will be more parties given, which would have been given were it not
                                    for so many being gone to the Battle Ground.14 What glorious
                                    ocasion the greatest political gathering ever known in our country. You have heard
                                    of the number estimated to have been present from 40,000 to 60,000. In the evening
                                    there was a most brilliant Borealas which was hailed with a shout as an omen of
                                    success to the whigs. There was great excitement on Monday as the different
                                    delegations passed through with their banners and flags, log cabins towards the
                                    Battle Ground. a great many persons went from this place, but no ladies. There has
                                    been incessant rains, which have prevented the ladies from this place from attending
                                    600 Ladies from other parts were there. The day was fine for convention. Tom15 called up to see me the evening he arrived. I was much
                                    pleased to see him. Isabella Wick16 has returned and is,
                                    preparing to go to housekeeping, and will be ready this coming week. I called to see
                                    her. I thought she looked very thin. We had a great number of calls on the next day
                                    after our marriage, and someone has been out ever day since, last eving we had
                                    twelve calls, in the afternoon rather.
                        
                           
                              12 Judge James Morrison, 1796-1869. He was secretary of
                                        state, 1829-33, and was the first attorney-general of Indiana. Nowland, p. 214.
                           
                              13 Major Alexander F. Morrison, 1804-57. He was the first
                                        publisher of the Indiana Democrat. Nowland, p. 218.
                           
                              14 A state convention was held May 29 by the Young Men
                                        Whigs at the 
                                            Tippecanoe
                                         battle-ground, because of its historical connection with their
                                        candidate, William Henry Harrison. This Battle-Ground Convention was attended by
                                        many from other states and was full of the old-fashioned campaign enthusiasm.
                                            Spirit of '76, 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , June 6, 1840.
                           
                              15 Probably Thomas L. Sullivan, son of Judge Jeremiah
                                        Sullivan.
                           
                              16 Isabella Barbee Wick, whom Judge William W. Wick
                                        married in 1839. Woollen, W. W., Biographical and Historical
                                            Sketches of Early Indiana.
                                        
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1883, p. 260.
                        
                        
                        Parry has returned from the 
                                        Baltimore
                                     Covention.17 did not (know) anything of Mr. D. and
                                    I, untill he got to 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     and then he heard that I was married he was shocked and could not come to see me untill yesterday he did not call my name had very
                                    little to say, trembled like an aspen, voice faltered. I am delighted with those
                                    articles you presented me. The music is pretty very, been very much admired.
                        I must bring this to a close. Will trouble your self to read it? I have
                                    (not) looked (at) a word as I have written if you can read I will be glad. do write
                                    soon and I will (be) glad to hear from you often as you will write (mutilated) I
                                    will take just the same interest in you and your (mutilated) formerly. My feelings
                                    have not changed in regard to anything (illegible) young person's love.
                                    Don't mention when you write, either Duncan's or
                                    Parry's name. I will (not) show your letters to Mr D if you do not wish
                                    it I will (not) let him know anything that you might want to say to me alone.
                        
                                    Adeu dearest friend, Mag, I remain still your friend
                                    Catherine M. N. Davidson
                                
                        Mrs McClure left us evening before last for 
                                        Madison
                                     on her way to 
                                        Virginia
                                     she will visit Mrs. H.'s some time.*
                        Miss M. A. Sullivan, 
                                        Madison
                                     (Indiana)
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  17 A national convention of the Whig Young Men was held at 
                            Baltimore
                         May 4. Spirit of '79, May 16, 1840.
               * This letter was published in the March number of this magazine, while the editor
                        was away. The printer and proofreader objected to the spelling and grammar and rewrote it as
                        they thought it should be. ED.
            
         
         
         
            The Pocket in Indiana History
            By THOMAS JAMES DE LA HUNT
            "What do you mean by "The Pocket'?" is a question
                    which residents of other states-or even elsewhere in our own commonwealth-frequently ask who dwell
                    in its shelter. Be it mine, therefore, to answer this so far as possible within the time allotted
                    me.
            Were we in a geographical class-room, I should like to take a long pointer and trace upon our state
                    map certain water-courses which form a logical natural boundary for Indiana's Pocket.
                    Blue river, rising in 
                        Washington
                     and Scott counties, flows into the 
                        Ohio
                     a few miles above 
                        Leavenworth
                    , leaving Harrison county to the east, and on its west bank let us take Crawford as the
                    first county in The Pocket. Down the beautiful 
                        Ohio
                     we shall go, passing in their order Perry, 
                  Spencer, Warrick
               , Vanderburg, until-at
                    the extreme tip-Posey county is reached. Here, let us turn upward between the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    , follow it along, passing Gibson county, to the mouth of White river. Turning eastward
                    here, coming next to 
                        Pike county
                    , the river forks near Petersburg. Keeping with the east fork, this marks a part of
                    Dubois county's northern line and at length we come to the lofty hills of 
                        Orange county
                    . These constitute the natural watershed, since on their further slope the flow is
                    toward Blue river, our point of commencement.
            How many of you remember that the first battle on Indiana soil during the War Between the States
                    occurred at the mouth of this Blue river, in Crawford county, June 19, 1863? A mere
                    skirmish, you may say, yet out of sixty-two Confederates engaged, three were killed, two drowned,
                    three 
                  * This address was delivered at the conference of Indiana Pioneers and other
                            historical societies at the Claypool Hotel, in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , December 11, 1919. I solicited it for publication in the Indiana
                                Magazine of History and I have urged its insertion over the modest demurrer of the
                            Editor in Chief, whose name and ancestry are properly recognized in the address. The
                            responsibility for publishing the article in mine; its merits belong to Mr. de la Hunt, to
                            whom also should be given due honor and recognition in connection with this address for his
                            very excellent history of Perry county, one of the best county histories produced in
                            Indiana. That history is a worthy part of the story of the Pocket of Indiana. JAMES A. WOODBURN
                  
               
                     wounded, and fifty were captured by home guards under command
                    of Captain Jesse C. Esarey of Perry county, and Major Robert E. Clendennin of 
                        Orange county
                    . The Confederate captain, Thomas Hines, made his escape by swimming to 
                        Kentucky
                    , where he rejoined Gen. John Morgan and, a fortnight later, participated in the Raid,
                    (of which so much more is commonly heard,) and the Battle of Corydon.
            Two days earlier, when Captain Hines had landed in Perry county, near 
                        Rome
                    , on June 17, was the first time that any confederate troops had ever ventured to cross
                    Mason & Dixon's line. John W. Minor, now a citizen of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was then a Perry county school-boy and was threatened by Hines for loyally refusing to
                    aid in the horse-stealing plans of this daredevil expedition.
            Captain Esarey's grandfather was one of Perry county's pioneers who, in 1810,
                    had come into the state at the mouth of Little Blue river, twelve miles farther down. The family
                    name has never died out thereabouts, though its present historical prominence attaches more to a
                    scholarly representative in the faculty of Indiana University.
            Furthermore, the solitary instance when naval cannon was discharged in defense of Indiana occurred in
                    a Perry county harbour, July 25, 1864. The gunboat 
                        Springfield
                     (No. 22 of the Missippi River fleet) had been stationed at 
                        Cannelton
                     for protection of its cotton manufactory, and twelve bombs were fired into the opposite
                    village of Hawesville, to drive out a band of guerillas believed to be threatening an attack. The
                    officer in command, Capt. Edmond Morgan, was an Englishman, formerly of the Royal artillery, and a
                    cousin of Lord Lyons, then British ambassador. His widow still lives in 
                        Kokomo
                    .
            In thus dwelling on my own county I must take pains to allay with some cold drops of modesty my
                    skipping spirit, yet Perry has no short history. Mound-builders' remains once perceptible
                    have been obliterated by agriculture. A curious artificial formation of rock, called
                    Troxell's HorseShoe, and attributed to the river-pirate Troxell, cannot now be
                    authenticated.
            Leopold, near the centre of the county, is an old Belgian community, founded through Father Augustus
                    Bessonies,  long revered as Vicar-General of the Roman Catholic
                    diocese of 
                        Vincennes
                     (
                        Indianapolis
                    ). While a young seminarian at Sainte Sulpice he heard a sermon preached by Bishop de la
                    Hailandiere, and was fired by zeal to come over and begin a mission among the
                    "Indians" of Indiana. Siberia is a hamlet of Russian farmers and Tell
                    City's name signifies its birth as an original colony of freedom-loving Switzers, who
                    would not plant their proposed town in any slave-holding state.
            Yet we are not a county of foreigners. Eight Revolutionary graves have been accurately located in
                    Perry county, besides those of others who fought in the War of 1812. The county's very
                    name is one of the earliest memorials to the fame of Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry, bestowed on its
                    organization, September 7, 1814, less than a year after the victory on Lake
                    Erie. Many Perry county names are on the roster of those who fought in Indian skirmishes
                    or at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     under William Henry Harrison,-governer, the general, the president.
            Like so many statesmen of his day, Harrison had an exaggerated reverence for the classics. Jacob
                    Piatt Dunn tells us that even in his official documents: "if Leonidas, Epaminondas and
                    Lycurgus escaped; Cincinnatus, Scipio and the Gracchi were sure to be taken in his net."
                    Thus it is a quaint commentary on this period that Perry county's pioneer towns received
                    the storied names of 
                        Troy
                     and 
                        Rome
                    .
            
               
                        Troy
                    , the oldest river settlement below the Falls, yet waits a Hoosier Homer to sing its
                    long Iliad. Founded by Virginians who landed from a flatboat-according to tradition-while an Indian
                    hunting-feast was in progress, and decided to remain with their families and negro slaves, it was an
                    important landing and shipping-point for many years. The first western steamboat, 
                        New Orleans
                    , touched at 
                        Troy
                     in 1811. Her captain, Nicholas J. Roosevelt, took on some coal for fuel and purchased a
                    tract of some 1,000 acres of coal land later sold to Robert 
                        Fulton
                    , the inventor. whose brother, Abraham Smythe 
                        Fulton
                    , was accidentally killed at a logrolling at 
                        Troy
                     while beginning its development.
            A still greater name associated with 
                        Troy
                    , that of Abraham Lincoln, who in 1817 accompanied his father and mother to Perry
                    county, and who during young manhood acted as  ferryman over the
                    waters of Anderson creek. Across the Ohio river, too, as his first case in any
                    court was pleading his own defense in the opposite 
                        Kentucky county
                     for inadvertent violation of another's ferry license privilege, through his
                    willingness to oblige a hurrying traveler.
            Re-adjustment of boundary lines placed Thomas Lincoln's land-entry in another county
                    within a year after he settled in Indiana, but he and his family came often to 
                        Troy
                    , as the nearest river town, and were residents of the same neighboring countryside
                    until their removal to 
                        Illinois
                     in 1827.
            Two years earlier, accidental circumstances brought as a guest to Perry county, on May 9, 1825, the
                    most distinguished foreigner who ever trod the soil of Indiana, Gilbert Motier de 
                        Lafayette
                    , in his farewell triumphal visit to America as the nation's guest, an honor
                    without parallel in history. When en route from 
                        Nashville
                     to 
                        Louisville
                    , his steamer, the "Mechanic" struck upon 
                        Rock Island
                     (then convered by high water), five miles east of 
                        Cannelton
                    , and went to the bottom in ten minutes. Passengers and crew were saved and had to spend
                    the remainder of the night ashore, only the general and Governor Carroll, of 
                        Tennessee
                    , having the luxury of a bed in the cabin of a pioneer, James Cavender. It stood near a
                    spring that spouts from a tall cliff and next morning, before resuming his journey on antoher boat, 
                        Lafayette
                     here received and welcomed many Perry county farmers and their families who hastily
                    gathered to pay their tribute of respect.
            All these facts have been verified and the spring is now known as "
                        Lafayette
                     Spring". Its formal dedication was held on the general's 159th
                    birthday, kept as 
                        Lafayette
                     Day in Perry county's centennial week. Dr. Logan Esarey was orator of the
                    day, by invitation of the 
                        Cannelton
                     and Tobinsport club women, who had taken the spot in their charge. They are now
                    planning its further beautification as a tiny unit in Indiana's state park system, as it
                    lies on a fine riverside turnpike constantly visited by motor tourists. Two years later, the name "
                        Lafayette
                     School" was officially conferred on the district school nearby.
            Crossing Anderson creek into 
                        Spencer county
                    , the pervasive memory of Lincoln asserts itself in the village of Lincoln city, near
                    the center of the county, where the martyred  president spent
                    ten years of boyhood. Nancy Hanks Lincoln Memorial Park is a charming tract of woodland surrounding
                    the long-unmarked grave of Abraham's "angel mother." It has a large
                    pavilion-like auditorium of permanent construction, where public assemblies are often held. The
                    suggestion has been made that 
                        Spencer county
                     should hold here at stated intervals a Lincoln Pageant, that the rising generations
                    might see again some episodes of the great man's story. The magnificent county pageant at 
                        Rockport
                     in 1916, written by a daughter of 
                        Spencer county
                    , the brilliant Kate Milner Rabb, now of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , had Lincoln scenes well worthy frequent reproduction.
            In Little Pigeon cemetery, a mile or two away, lies the grave of Abraham's only sister,
                    Sarah Lincoln Grigsby, with a tombstone erected in 1916, and the site of Thomas Lincoln's
                    cabin-now in the village schoolyard-is indicated by an inscribed marker of marble.
            Chief credit for this is due the late Helen Morgan Baumgaertner, probably the one person who knew the
                    most concerning the history of her native county. A Daughter of the American Revolution, she was a
                    lineal descendant of Captain Spier Spencer, who laid down his life in command of his
                    "Yellow Jackets" at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and the county commemorating his name was dear to his great-granddaughter. Mrs.
                    Baumgaertner had accumulated much valuable material toward writing a history of 
                        Spencer county
                     and the interruption of this purpose is one of the deplorable circumstances of her
                    untimely death.
            Hastening on; the next county's name, 
                        Warrick
                    , is a further reminder of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and another captain who was killed there, Jacob 
                        Warrick
                    . Organized in 1813, this county was originally "The Pocket" itself,
                    extending from Harrison to Gibson, and thus has a claim on events now classified under other heads. 
                        Evansville
                     was the first county seat, later changed to Darlington but in a few years removed to
                    Boon, ville, named for the pioneer, Ratliff Boon (not Daniel 
                        Boone
                    ), who was afterward lieutenant-governor. Boonville was a station on the mail route
                    established in 1812 between 
                        New Harmony
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    , and it is recorded that the first carrier, John Williams, required two weeks to make
                    the round  trip on horseback. Often horse anl rider had to swim
                    creeks or ponds they could not go around, and the mail-bags with their contents were so completely
                    watersoaked that much time and care were required to dry them out.
            Henry Vanderburg, a captain in the American Revolution, a member of the legislative council of the
                    Northwest territory; a judge of the first court formed in Indiana territory, is honored in the name
                    of the Pocket's wealthiest, most populous county.
            In 1812 one Colonel Hugh McGary crossed from 
                        Kentucky
                     and landing, tied his canoe to an historic elm-tree near the foot of what is now
                    Division street in 
                        Evansville
                    . An Indian village of Shawnees then lay between him and Pigeon creek, we are told, but
                    was not dangerously troublesome.
            McGary laid out some few lots, but the real beginning of the city was made by Gen. Robert M.
                    Evans' purchase and survey of a town-site in 1816-17. 
                        Evansville
                    's early years show comparatively little of romance. Its growth has been
                    steady, however, toward marked commercial prosperity as Indiana's natural gateway to the
                    south. To the state as governor Evansville gave Conrad Baker; to international diplomacy, John W.
                    Foster and Charles Denby; to American literature, the gifted sisters, Annie Fellows Johnston and
                    Albion Fellows Bacon.
            Posey county, named on organization in 1814 for Gen. Thomas Posey, is beyond doubt the most
                    universally known of all the Pocket counties, through the prominence of 
                        New Harmony
                    . So much has been written in detail touching this absolutely unique village, that it is
                    needless to repeat facts that are familiar to everyone in Indiana. The Rappite colonists; the Owen
                    community; the Fauntleroy home, birthplace of the renowned "Minerva," September
                    20, 1859, and a Mecca for all American club women; each offers a theme on which countless pens have
                    dwelt. "Of making many books there is no end"-on 
                        New Harmony
                    . It is a shrine too sacred for desultory handling near the close of a paper already
                    long.
            It can only be noted further that Posey county furnished one of Indiana's most important
                    governors, Alvin P. Hovey, a native of 
                        Mount Vernon
                    , who had previously been a jurist, a dashing brigadier-general, a polished
                    envoy-extraordinary.
            
            Gibson county is a reminder of Gen. John Gibson. In his youth he had been captured and held by the
                    Indians, so could speak their language fluently and to him was addressed that celebrated speech of
                    the Mingo chief, "Logan," so long a classic in schoolroom readers of past
                    generations. A fierce massacre in 1815, between 
                        Princeton
                     and the Wabash River, cost the lives of nine white settlers and
                    was a stirring early event. Along more peaceful lines, 
                        Princeton
                     claims the first regular Sunday school in the Pocket, organized in 1820 by the
                    Covenanters (now United Presbyterians).
            The fine historical writings of Colonel Cockrum, of 
                        Oakland City
                    , give a detailed account of the "Underground Railway," a movement
                    perhaps peculiar to Gibson among the Pocket counties, as a pro-slavery sentiment was distinctly
                    evident among some of the river counties during the first six decades of the last century,
                    especially among the Scotch Covenanters, most of whom had come from the south.
            
               
                        Pike county
                    , rich in underlying minerals and once heavily timbered, has much fertile acreage and
                    its history appears for the most part a placid chronicle, though "forts" were
                    built for protection against the red men and one of the last remaining
                    "block-houses" was torn down only a short time ago. It is interesting to recall
                    that cotton was once grown in the sheltered Patoka valleys and the pioneer
                    industry had reached such proportions by 1818 that James McEwen erected a commercial cotton-gin,
                    which took its place among primitive distilleries, grist and saw mills.
            Dubois county history has had a capable historian in the person of a native of Perry county, George
                    Robert Wilson, of 
                        Jasper
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    . His published volume gives a comprehensive resume of what transpired in his adopted
                    county from its settlement by the McDonalds in 1801 down to 1904 when the book appeared. One of its
                    most valuable chapters is the biography of Toussaint Dubois, for whom the county was named, one of
                    Harrison's spies and guides at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . The varied foreign elements making up the county's population afford
                    interesting material which Mr. Wilson has ably handled. Several of the more important spots have
                    been suitably marked through his generous enthusiasm and the co-operation of Miss Genevieve
                    MacDonald Williams, of 
                    
                        Huntingburg
                    , the county centennial chairman, and the author and director of the fine pageants
                    presented at 
                        Huntingburg
                     in 1916.
            Though cotton once flourished in 
                        Pike
                     and Dubois counties, it is not claimed that oranges ever grew among the hills of 
                        Orange county
                    , unless in modern hotel corridors of French Lick or West Baden. The name was chosen to
                    commemorate 
                  Orange county, North
                            Carolina
               , whence came many of its early settlers, members of the
                    society of friends. Among pioneer names handed down are Clendennin, Lindley, Trueblood, Braxton,
                    Chambers and Darroch; this last that of the earliest teacher (Duncan Darroch), who taught in 1812. A
                    year before this, the first church edifice had been built by the Quakers.
            To southern blood and affiliations such as existed nearer the 
                        Ohio
                     may be traced the Confederate sympathy that was outspoken among some 
                        Orange county
                     residents, and was secretly fostered by the Knights of the Golden Circle, known to have
                    their headquarters at Paoli. Dr. W. A. Bowles, who had been twice a member of the legislature and a
                    colonel in the Mexican war, was an unquestioned leader in this movement. Before a military court in 
                        Indianapolis
                     he was found guilty of treason and sentenced to death in 1864, a penalty, however,
                    which was reversed by the supreme court, releasing him.
            Yet 
                        Orange county
                     was not disloyal; was not the hot-bed of Butternuts and Copperheads as a whole. It was
                    Paoli's sixty armed minute-men, under a Clendennin, who marched to join an Esarey at Blue
                    river for the repulse of Hines at Blue river.
            In a word, as Maurice Thompson, of southern lineage and Confedrate service, has written,
                    "Indiana men might wrangle and squabble among themselves; might call each other hard names
                    in the heat of local politics; yet when it came to choosing between the Union and Secession, all
                    stood together for the old Flag and the Constitution."
            My pocketful of Indiana history is thus emptied near the place of its beginning. In conclusion I
                    would turn it inside out to show once more its silver lining the Ohio river,
                    that marvelous Course of Empire, a stream of matchless beauty. 
                    with a history of imperishable significance. Beauty is its own excuse for being and it is the
                    "Beautiful River" that we love best in the Pocket; we whose ancestors traversed
                    its long shining aisle through a fair green world, under the sun and stars of a century and a
                    quarter ago.
            Reaching high into the foothills of the Alleghenies and the Cumberlands; beckoning to the intrepid
                    colonists of 
                        Virginia
                     and the Carolinas, with outspread arms reaching as far as the sources of the Allegheny
                    at the north and those of the 
                        Tennessee
                     at the south; the Beautiful river called through the forest stillness with musical
                    voice, then heard by the pioneers of the Pocket and yet echoing in the hearts of their sons and
                    daughters.
            Men may come, and men may go, still the Beautiful river listens to the story of to-day that shall
                    some time be the history of yesterday.
         
         
         
            The History of 
                        Madison
                    
            
            BY THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF MADISON
            
               
                        Madison
                     is one of the oldest cities in the state, surpassed in age, probably, by but three, and
                    only one of these, 
                        Vincennes
                    , by but a very few years, and by none in beauty of location.
            
               
                        Madison
                     was practically one hundred years old last spring (1908), and the first white
                    man's cabin having been erected near where the present pumping house of our water works
                    stands, in the spring of 1808 by Mr. William Hall, who squatted on the land then belonging to the 
                        United States
                    . He sold his cabin the following year to Jonathan Lyon, one of the three men who in
                    1810 laid out the town. The other two were John Paul, who bought the land the city is now built on,
                    of the government in 1809 and Lewis Davis, who came here with Paul.
            Shortly after Hall had built his cabin, and before he sold it to Lyon, John K. Wagner, the father of
                    Isaac Wagner, later mayor of the city, came here and built a cabin on what was then a high bank on
                    the northeast corner of Mulberry and First streets. These, both built in 1808, were the first houses
                    built in the bottom here, the early residents, the Vawters and others who came from 
                        Kentucky
                     and other states, having either purchased or squatted on land on top of the hill.
            As stated, the town was laid out by the three proprietors named, in 1810, and the first sale of lots
                    was made the year afterward, 1811.
            From this time on, 
                        Madison
                     seems to have had a rapid growth, for a new country. Many persons came over from 
                        Kentucky
                     and others coming down the 
                        Ohio
                    , then the great highway through this country, and noting the beauty of the location and
                    the splendid timber land surrounding, stopped here.
            The first store there is any record of in the town was kept by Col. John Vawter, who came here in
                    1808 with his father, Elder Jesse Vawter, locating on the hill. His place of business was on the
                    southeast corner of Main and Jefferson  street, just west of and
                    opposite the court-house. Another of the early merchants was John Sering, who came in the year 1810,
                    and was made county treasurer in 1812. He was appointed the first postmaster and held the office for
                    many years. He kept a store on the northeast corner of Main and Jefferson streets, where the Gertz
                    bakery now is. At a later date, Mr. Sering established the first cotton mill in 
                        Madison
                    . It stood on the ground now occupied by the residence of the late James J. Sering, on
                    North Jefferson street. It had only machinery for making cotton yarn. This was made from cotton
                    rolls or batting and was an industry of very nearly as great importance in that day as are the great
                    cotton mills of our day, when the raw cotton is made into clothes of different grades by machinery.
                    At that time the majority of all the clothes were made by the women from the raw material, whether
                    flax, cotton or wool, carding by hand, spinning the thread and then weaving on a hand loom.
            The town of 
                        Madison
                     was incorporated by special act of the legislature April 15, 1824. The city of 
                        Madison
                     was incorporated in 1838 by act of the legislature. The first mayor was Moody Park,
                    serving from 1838 to 1850.
            The city has always had excellent schools, from the time they were started, and today they are
                    unexcelled in the state.
            The first account of the improvements of the town of 
                        Madison
                     is in a sketch by Mr. D. Blackmore, in 1850. He says: 
                        Hall's was the first improvement. (This was in what is now called 
                                Fulton
                            .) Then John B. Wagner's. Lyon made the third improvement on the high
                            ground, called Scott's Garden, between the Ross tanyard and the river. In 1811,
                            besides the improvements above, there were Trotter's, on High, near Walnut;
                            Booth's Tavern, on Main (now Jefferson) and Second, southeast corner;
                            Taylor's (father of Bushrod Taylor) saddle shop; J. Wilkinson's cabin,
                            Walnut and High, east of Trotter's, and Nat Hunt's old residence.
                    
            
            From that time forward there has been a constant advance in buildings, principally of brick and very
                    substantially built, have a great many of them long survived the builders and some are now standing,
                    nearly one hundred years of age and quite strong and substantial.
            The one great calamity of the town happened in 1846, early in September. A cloud burst occurred at
                    the head of  Crooked creek and the raging waters came rushing
                    down the creek, drowning eleven people and damaging property to the extent of $100,000 in
                    value. Fortunately, the flood was in daylight. The creek then flowed through a culvert under the
                    railroad, much smaller than the present culvert. Floating houses came down the creek and stopped up
                    the culvert. As a result, the whole bottom was flooded.
            
               
                        Madison
                     was a place of much note at the early part of the last century. To it was attracted a
                    very great number of people of all classes, characters and occupations. In 1816 and up to 1850, it
                    was one of the points of attraction as a new and growing town, in a new and growing country. There
                    were speculations in town lots and in all other possibilities of fortune making. It had its great
                    boom, and property was up to fabulous prices. The capitalist was attracted to it as a place of
                    investment; the mechanic as a place where he could get work, the merchant as a good opening for
                    business and as a growing place; the lawyer and the doctor were attracted to it as furnishing a good
                    opportunity for fame and riches; and it was especially attractive to the young men of that day. The
                    beauty of the location and the natural surroundings was added to all the others which have been
                    enumerated. All of these combining caused an inflow of men of mark on account of talent and ability,
                    such as but few other places of that day or since have had. In the first fifty years of the century,
                    but few of the men of prominence in this country, and foreigners traveling for instruction or
                    pleasure but made 
                        Madison
                     a point of visit. Many men who were afterwards of national fame were citizens of the
                    old town. The bar of our city in those days stood head and shoulders above any other in this state,
                    and was the peer of any in the country. In legal attainments as counsellors and advocates, none
                    surpassed its members.
            In the political arena, 
                        Madison
                     has produced many names of honor and worth, both of state and national fame. William
                    Hendricks, the first member of congress from this state, second governor of this state and 
                        United States
                     senator for twelve years; Jesse D. Bright, who was lieutenant-governor of the state, 
                        United States
                     senator for about sixteen years  (and for four
                    years of that time president of the senate), and others for a mention of whom space is wanting.
            During the forties, 
                        Madison
                     was the only city in the west with a railroad. Our road had not extended even beyond 
                        Columbus
                     in 1844 and no other road had been completed or scarcely begun. Our road was not
                    completed until three years later, in 1847, though it was begun in 1836, practically 1835. We had
                    the 
                        Michigan
                     road, through to the Great Lakes, and the various roads built by the state spreading
                    out in different directions. 
                        Madison
                     was situated on the crown of a horseshoe bend, bringing water craft far into the
                    interior of the state, and from the south and east were easily sent over the railroad or over the
                    various state roads into the interior, to our capital, then but a village, and to every interior
                    point much easier and cheaper than from any other point of supply. And in return all the products of
                    the great interior of the growing state drifted by natural law to 
                        Madison
                    , to be sent onward to the various parts of the world by water, then our only means of
                    transportation, save the ox cart or the horse or mule team. Even the canals had not been fully
                    completed then though they were working on them. In other words, 
                        Madison
                     held a monopoly on the transportation situation.
            
               
                        Madison
                     was the greatest porkopolis in the world at that date, 
                        Chicago
                     having not yet stolen her franchise on this great industry of the west, as it was
                    preeminently a western enterprise. Hogs were sent here by the carload and wagon load, aye, by the
                    hundreds of wagon loads and hundreds of thousands of hogs arrived here on foot, having traveled
                    hundreds of miles from 
                        Illinois
                     and surrounding states.
            This is no idle story. When a small boy in the wilds of 
                        Illinois
                    , where our hogs ran wild the year around, living and fattening on the mast, that is the
                    acorns in the forests, I have helped gather up those belonging to my father, and with the assistance
                    of the drover, took them to a nearby farmer's field or large pen. Here the hogs from all
                    neighborhoods for twenty-five miles around were gathered until the drove was large enough to start
                    on to 
                        Madison
                     with. And then weeks were consumed en route ere the sore-footed swine arrived at the
                    end of their journey, the slaughtering pen in 
                        Madison
                    .
            
            The earliest inhabitants had their grinding done at Mount Byrd, 
                        Kentucky
                    . The first mill known in this part of the county was Col. John Paul's, built
                    on Crooked creek, at the head of Mill street, in this city. The exact date of erection is not known,
                    but it is mentioned as early as 1814. It was run by water power. When the contractors straightened
                    Crooked Creek recently, they dug up the old stone wall, supposed by some to have been the foundation
                    of the Paul mill.
            In early times, many, in fact most, of the farmers took their corn and wheat to Trimble county,
                    across the river, to have it ground. Later they built several horse and water mills in this county.
                    When a boy, I have-taken my father's grist to them and had it ground. The mill was simply
                    a log building or shed; the machinery, a pair of mill stones set up in the middle of the building
                    and operated by a long sweep, to which one or more horses were attached, walking around the mill.
                    Over the stones was a rudely constructed hopper into which the corn or wheat was poured, falling
                    onto the stones as the operation of grinding proceeded. Farmers would come to the mill with their
                    sacks of corn or wheat, usually the former, on their horse. Arriving at the mill, they would hitch
                    their horse to the sweep, the miller would take the sack of wheat or corn, and first taking his
                    toll, so much for each bushel to be ground, put the remainder in the hopper, where it was reduced to
                    meal or flour as the case might be. The farmer would then unhitch his horse, put his grist on its
                    back, climb on himself and proceed on his way home, allowing the next to take his place at the mill.
            The first mention of the woolen industry is that of Rev. William Robinson, a Presbyterian minister.
                    Next was John N. Watson, then Braxton Wilson. Then came the carding rooms of Mr. Shuh, where steam
                    power was used. Whitney and Hendricks followed and after a long interval was the Schofield-Hague
                    (Haigh?) mills at the foot of Central avenue, where the Globe Tobacco works now stand.
                    Some time after, the Schofield mills, northeast corner of First and Jefferson, and last the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Madison
                     Woolen Mill, at the corner of West and Second streets, now idle. The Eagle Cotton mill,
                    now owned by Richard Johnson, was moved here from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     in 1884, Later, Mr. Johnson built the 
                        Madison
                    
                     Cordage mill, the two mills employing from 300 to 400 hands.
            
               
                        Madison
                     was also well provided with newspapers in early days. The second paper published in the
                    state was published here, The Western Eagle, published by William Hendricks in
                    1813. Hendricks was afterwards governor. His home stood where the fine residences of Graham, Colgate
                    and Vail now stand on First street. It was torn down a few years ago. His tomb stood on the hill
                    near the "Old Camp Ground."
            The first ship yard of the town was operated by Howard and Emerson, established in the decade of the
                    thirties, situated at the extreme upper point of the town. The 
                        Madison
                     Marine Railway shipyard was established in 1850 and has been in operation ever since. A
                    yard was operated and boats built about where Thomas's cooper shop now stands, in the
                    east end, as early as 1835, and was continued on until the present yard was built. Captain Barimore,
                    who recently owned our present yard, worked there as a boy.
            The first foundry here was carried on by Edward Shield & Brothers, located on northwest
                    corner of High and Vine streets. The motive power was one hired horse. It was on the site of the
                    present McKim-Cochran furniture factory. At one time 
                        Madison
                     boasted of one of the largest foundries in the whole west, run under the firm name of
                    J. S. and R. B. Neal. In 1850, Davidson & Crawford started the Indiana Foundry, now called
                    the 
                        Madison
                     Machine works. The Novelty works was established by J. N. Todd on Second street, near
                    Elm, afterwards Walker's foundry, and removed to West street, where Charles R. Johnson
                    now operates it.
            The first starch factory of any size established in the West, was at 
                        Madison
                     by O'Neal Bailey, an Irishman. This was a failure in his hands, but was
                    finally a success under the management of Johnson and Clements. Finally they separated their
                    interest and each built works at the west end of the city and were for many years the largest starch
                    manufacturers in the whole country. They used daily about 1,800 bushels of corn in the manufacture
                    of starch.
            The first stove foundry was established in the 50's. The 
                        Madison
                     stove foundry was established in 1884 and is now doing a good business.
            
            Peter Crosby built a saw mill on the river front afterwards owned by Dow and 
                        Brown
                    . It has burned since and Johnson rebuilt it on the same site. D. C. Robinson had a saw
                    mill also on the river front which is now a handle factory, run by 
                        Columbus
                     people.
            The courthouse at that time was a two-story brick structure, much smaller than the present fine and
                    commodious edifice. It stood where the present courthouse stands, perhaps a little farther towards
                    Main street, as old Mr. Right Rea, father of the late R. R. Rea, owned the south half of the present
                    courtyard and had a hotel on the alley facing Jefferson street. In later years he sold the lot to
                    the county and the old hotel disappeared forever. The market house stood in the middle of Jefferson
                    street, facing Main street and south of Main street. It was afterwards moved to the present site on
                    Main and Walnut streets.
            The old jail stood where the present structure is, but facing the alley end. The clerk's
                    office, a one-story brick, stood on the northeast corner of the lot fronting on Main street, or as
                    it was then called, Main Cross street. At the corner of Main and Jefferson streets was a two story
                    building with a balcony around the second story facing both Main and Jefferson streets, and with a
                    stairway outside leading to this balcony and the upper story. Down stairs was occupied by a dry
                    goods store and a doctor's office. Dr. Joseph Rogers, the grandfather of Mr. William
                    Rogers, of the Rogers' drug store, a big portly man, occupied this office. The second
                    story was occupied by the county officers.
            CHURCHES
            Many good things have come to 
                        Madison
                     and Jefferson county from its near neighbor, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and notable among them was a supply of pioneer preachers, and after having breathed
                    the free air of Indiana, they never went back. Without these noble men, this part of the Northwest
                    territory would have much longer remained unconsecrated ground.
            BAPTIST
            Between the years 1781 and 1851, Indiana was considered a missionary field, so few and far between
                    were the churches. As many as sixty-three protestant missionaries were laboring  here at one time among the settlers and we know from historical
                    accounts that the Jesuit missionaries had long been in this wilderness striving with the red men.
                    One historian claims that the religious development of Indiana came from without rather than from
                    within. That may have been true of some counties, but it hardly seems so of Jefferson county, for we
                    read that as soon as log cabins were built, there was erected a family altar and around that altar
                    gathered any who might be living near, to pay homage to Him who had preserved them and given them
                    the blessings of life.
            In Jefferson county, there are ten townships: 
                  Lancaster, Monroe, Shelby
               , Graham, Smyrna, 
                  Madison, Milton, Hanover
               , Republican and Saluda. 
                        Madison
                     township was the first one in which a church was organized and that church was of the
                    Baptist denomination.
            The founder of this church was Jesse Vawter, a Virginian by birth, born in Culpepper county in 1755.
                    His parents were David and Mary Vawter and they, being Episcopalians brought their infant child and
                    consecrated him in baptism by the form of sprinkling in the Episcopal church in Rapidan, 
                        Virginia
                    . When he became a young man, he went to another part of the state to find work at his
                    trade as carpenter and joiner and while there, he heard a sermon by a Baptist preacher that had such
                    a wonderful effect upon him that he presented himself for baptism by immersion and joined the
                    Baptist church. Soon after he met the woman of his choice, was married and moved to 
                        North Carolina
                    .
            In the story of his life, he says "Having lost all hope of ever having a Baptist church near
                    me in 
                        North Carolina
                    , I determined to move to Great Crossing, Scott county, 
                        Kentucky
                    ." So he and his wife and two children struck the trail that led to Great
                    Crossing, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and what was better than all, a Baptist church. Here he purchased land, established a
                    home and became a man of influence. In 1800 a great revival spread over 
                        Kentucky
                    , and under its spell Jesse Vawter felt called to preach the gospel. Whether he had
                    received any special training for the work we do not know, but probably he was given some
                    theological education between the time of his decision and his ordination which was five years.
            
            There was a custom in those days of "trying out" the candidate for the ministry. He
                    was given a certain time and place for "exercising his gifts" and if approved by
                    his listeners, he was allowed to continue preaching, and if not, he was quietly told his services
                    were not needed. Jesse Vawter gave satisfaction, proceeded on his ministerial course, and Dr. Stott,
                    in his Indiana Baptist History says "Jesse Vawter's
                    qualifications were far above mediocrity."
            Land titles in those days were often not worth the paper on which they were written. So it proved
                    with Jesse Vawter's purchase in 
                        Kentucky
                    . He decided to move across the Ohio river and locate in Indiana
                    territory. This was in the year 1806.
            Jesse Vawter's name is worthy of a place among the pilgrims, for he too was of the mind
                    that "church building was coeval with town building." As soon as he had a roof
                    over his head, he invited what few neighbors he had to assemble in his house for religious worship
                    regularly every Sunday. These were the families of Philemon Vawter, brother of Jesse, and a Baptist
                    preacher also, of Jesse's two sons, and of the Edwards, Underwoods and Jacksons. The
                    following year a church was organized and was built on the banks of Crooked creek and this was the
                    first church of any kind in Jefferson county, and the second in Indiana territory bordering on the
                        Ohio river, there being one not far from 
                        Louisville
                     on the Indiana shore.
            Not long after, the location of the church was changed from Crooked creek to the hilltop, near Jesse
                    Vawter's home. Pleased with his surroundings, he named his home Mount Glad, and the
                    church was called Mount Pleasant. His home was the place now occupied by Dr. and Mrs. William R.
                    Davidson. Elder Vawter was retained as pastor as long as he lived, over twenty years.
            We call this a day of conventions. Every society and profession meet in convention. In those early
                    days the Baptists were fully organized and met in what they called associations. A certain number of
                    churches formed an association and so fast did they multiply that soon they had to be divided. And
                    after many divisions and sub-divisions, we  find Mt.
                        Pleasant church in the 
                        Madison
                     association, which was designated in this manner: 
                        All churches east of the State Road (which was the Wirt Road), running from 
                                Madison
                             to 
                                Indianapolis
                            , shall be called the 
                                Madison
                             Association. The object of the association shall be to extend our Christian
                            union, fellowship and acquaintance with each other and to proclaim the good news of the
                            salvation to the children of men.
                    
            
            This association was formed in 1833.
            The Baptists numbered among their membership in 
                        Madison
                    , so many of the colored population that a church was organized by them in 1849, called 
                        St. Paul
                    's Second Baptist church. This association was organized in 1858.
            It has not always been smooth sailing in Baptist waters. The cause of foreign missions almost rent
                    them in twain. Some felt they must send the glad tidings to heathen lands while others were bitterly
                    opposed to it. At one time there were so many different banners under which they sailed it must have
                    been confusing. There were the Regular, Separate, United, General, Particular, Primitive, Freewill,
                    Seventh Day and perhaps more. They differed only in minor forms, all holding to the same cardinal
                    beliefs. None of these discordances moved the tranquil Jesse Vawter. He continued to preach as he
                    was taught and to ply his trade, as the salary in those days might be something or nothing according
                    to the needs of the preacher. The Mount Pleasant congregation came down from the hill-top to the
                    town of 
                        Madison
                     in 1831. Some have questioned why 
                        Madison
                     did not go up to Mount Pleasant church and build the town around it, above the fog of
                    the valley? Be that as it may, the Baptists erected a brick church on what is now called
                    Vine street and grew in strength and influence. Dr. Stott says: 
                        The 
                                Madison
                             Baptist church was looked upon as a paradise to the preacher. The early Baptist
                            churches of Jefferson county were organized as follows: Mt. Pleasant,
                            in 1807; Indian 
                                Kentucky
                            , in 1814; Middle Fork, in 1817, now dissolved; Herbert's Creek, in
                            1818; North 
                                Madison
                            , in 1819; 
                                Milton
                            , in 1828, now dissolved; Hebron, in 1828; Brushy Fork, in 1829;
                            Ryker's Ridge. in 1841; Dupont, in 1849; Big Creek, in 1853, now dissolved;
                            College Hill, in 1861.
                    
            
            Elder Jesse Vawter was called to his reward in 1838, at the ripe age of 83 years, and he is buried in
                    the Wirt graveyard.
            
            Among the preachers of that day were Revs. Vawter, Stott, Edwards, Owen, George, Stevenson, Craven, 
                        Monroe
                     and others.1
            
            METHODIST
            Soon after the sale of public lands in Indiana territory, came Methodism. This section of country was
                    assigned to the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit which belonged to the Western conference, and this conference was almost
                    without limits. As the country became more thickly settled, the churches, in 1812, were assigned to
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     conference, a little nearer home. Now that we are among the Methodists, we must be
                    prepared for rapid transit, for as Rev. W. W. Snyder of blessed memory said: "To move or
                    not to move was the great issue," and he might have soliloquized further if he had been the
                    least bit dissatisfied with his church's rulings and said "Whether
                    'tis nobler to suffer this move every two or four years or take arms against the Bishop
                    and presiding elders?" But Brother Snyder did not feel that way. The mention of
                    all the methodist ministers of that early day would be impossible for their name is legion. Among
                    the founders of the Methodist church in 
                        Madison
                     were Mr. and Mrs. Frame, George Burton and Mr. and Mrs. Rufus Gale. Walter Griffith was
                    the first circuit rider to visit this locality. The first service was held at the home of Mr. and
                    Mrs. Gale. William Hughes was chosen as class leader. The Methodists began to grow as fast as the
                    town did and soon they found a private house too small, so the courthouse was made use of and the
                    preachers of that day were Whitson, Chitwood, Strange, Sharp, Oglesby and Sparks. There are
                    conflicting records about these first gatherings of Methodists for worship. Mr. R. J. Hulburt
                    'in his "Sketch of Methodism in 
                        Madison
                    ' says that the first preaching place was in the McIntyre home on the corner
                    of East and Second streets and this was in 1814-16. Mr. Snyder's account antedates that
                    by two years, making the first service in 1812 at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Gale.
            
               
                  1 I am indebted to Dr. Stott's Indiana Baptist
                            History and sermons by Dr. C. E. W. Dobbs, and also to newspaper articles.
            
            
            Dr. Oglesby belonged to the medical profession, but he was given an appointment as preacher also and
                    labored in this conference for ten or twelve years. Judge Sparks also had a two-fold occupation and
                    could draw as large a crowd into the courthouse to hear him preach as to plead at the bar.
            At this time in the history of 
                        Madison
                    , East street was the eastern boundary of the town and West street the western boundary.
                    Mr. Hulburt says that it was in 1816 or 1819 (although Mr. Snyder gave it in 1812-13), that the site
                    for a Methodist church was chosen and that was on the corner of East and Main Cross streets. Here
                    they built a small brick church, large enough to accommodate the townspeople, but when the country
                    people came in, the sanctuary was enlarged by building booths around it and covering them with
                    boughs. The pillars in the first Methodist church were Brothers Botsford, Wilson, Cumstock and
                    others and the local preachers were Oglesby, 
                        Brown
                     and Wallace.
            Camp meetings, that combination of salvation and sociability, were inaugurated in 1817, and the first
                    one was held just outside the town on the banks of Crooked creek. It was largely attended and the
                    church was greatly augumented by it. Silas Ritchis is mentioned as being among the converts and that
                    he never fell back. In 1817, 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit was divided. All west and south of Laughery creek became 
                        Madison
                     circuit, in the Moores Hill district later.
            The churches in 
                        Madison
                     circuit are as follows: Trinity church, of 
                        Madison
                    , Grace Church of 
                  Madison, Kent
               , Mt. Pisgah, Deputy, 
                        Hanover
                    , New Liberty, Canaan, Dupont, 
                  Paris,
                            Lancaster, Hopewell
               , North 
                        Madison
                    , Pleasant Ridge, Zoar, Brooksburg, Home Chapel, Ebenezer, Mt.
                    Zion, Morris Chapel.
            The first Sunday school organized in 
                        Madison
                     was at the home of Mrs. McIntyre. All the children of the town could attend but the
                    teachers must be of the Methodist faith.
            In Methodism, there is no power to keep silent the laymen or the laywomen and this subject under the
                    head of Radicalism came to the surface in the early church and caused a rupture. Some of the church
                    members questioned in this wise: "Shall not the layman be allowed to preach and have equal
                         rights with the preacher?" The question
                    could only be settled by about forty members withdrawing and building another church on Third
                    street, known as the Jewish Synagogue. This was in 1829. Within the course of a few years, the
                    Radicals had change of heart and returned to the parent church. In 1831 the church on the corner of
                    East and Main was abandoned and Wesley Chapel was built. It stood on the north side of Main street,
                    between West and Poplar and was converted into a place of amusement when Trinity church on roadway
                    was built. The first sermon preached in Wesley chapel was by Rev. Lewis Hurlbut. The first trustees
                    of Wesley chapel were John Woodburn, Charles Barnett, William Robinson, John Pugh and Charles
                    Woodard. The local preachers for that year were John W. Sullivan, Gamaliel Taylor and Patrick 
                        Brown
                    . It is recorded that they made the sexton of the new church, Wesley chapel, sign a
                    contract to "sweep the church, dust the pulpit and seats, make and keep good fires, light
                    the lamps and extinguish the same, keep order in the house and receive a salary of $55.00
                    per year." Would it not be well if we of the present day adopted the same
                    custom?
            The colored people were given seats in the gallery at the south end of the church. Very soon they
                    became quite numerous and a branch church was formed for them called A. M. E. (later Ebenezer) on
                    Fifth near Walnut, and a preacher of their own race was supplied.
            In 1839 a great revival was experienced under the preaching of a celebrated evangelist of that day,
                    John Newland Maffit, and over four hundred souls were added to the church, many coming from 
                        Madison
                    's "400". About this time, Wesley chapel organized a very
                    fine choir and bought a new organ. They were rendering all the new anthems in the most approved
                    style, but strange to relate, it was not pleasing to all of the congregation. Some of them insisted
                    that they return to congregational singing. Others upheld the choir. So one hundred and twenty
                    members of Wesley chapel withdrew and the church building formerly used by the Radicals being
                    unoccupied, they held services there and made melody unto the Lord in congregational singing. In
                    1844 they built a church on Third street, between Poplar street and 
                        Broadway
                    
                     (what is now the Armory), and called it Robert's
                    chapel. It was organized by Bishop Roberts himself. Phelix Adair in one of his characteristic
                    newspaper articles said, "In the palmiest days of old Roberts chapel, Brother Spivey would
                    start an old hymn which ran thus:
                        A better church can not be found, Its doctrines are both pure and sound. One proof that I can
                            give for this, The Devil hates a Methodist.
                     And all the congregation joined in with Brother Spivey.
            A few more years and Wesley chapel suffered another break. This time it was because of too long
                    prayer meetings. Those who protested against them first, showed their disapproval of long prayers by
                    leaving the room before the service was concluded. This did no good so they said: "We will
                    not endure it longer, but form a church of our own." This caused the church called St.
                    John's to come into being (1848). Rev. J. S. Bayless was their first pastor. The
                    following men were appointed stewards: Chauncey B. Lewis, John J. Taylor, John E. Moore, William F.
                    Thomas T. J. Doyle, Rena S. Goodrich and John Short. Rev. Gamaliel Taylor and N. D. Ruckle were
                    appointed leaders. For a time they worshipped in No. 1 engine house and in the Upper Seminary, and
                    in two years built a church on the site of the First Methodist church, corner East and Main streets.
                    This church was called St. John's, and was dedicated July 7th, 1850, by Rev. E. R. Ames.
                    It seems there was money enough among them to build another church whenever any disagreement arose,
                    as to preaching, music or length of service. In 1844 a German Methodist Episcopal church was
                    organized to meet the wants of a large number of German speaking people who were coming to make
                    their homes here. They held services in the Upper Seminary for three years and then built on Third
                    street, between Jefferson and Mulberry, what is now known as the Grace church. In those days, the
                    preacher was required to preach both in English and German. Among the founders were the Buehlers,
                    the Ramspotts, the Niklaus, the Hereths, the Schrams, the Bauldoffs, and others. At that time this
                    church belonged to the German conference, but now  all is
                    changed. The preaching is all in English and the church is enrolled in the Indiana conference.
            The mighty Methodist church! What a wonderful power for good it has ever been. How
                    superior in its organization as a whole and in all its parts, so that as a rule, "Every
                    church has a pastor and every pastor a church."
            Among some of the preachers of that day were the names of Raper, Cummings, Baker, Murray, Irvin
                    Basset, Ray, Wiley, Ruter, Hadenbuth and Wright.1
            
            THE UNITED PRESBYTERIAN
            This demonination is the union of the Associate Presbyterian, Associate Reformed Presbyterians and
                    the Seceders, and was consummated in 1858. These different branches were all children of the mother
                    kirk of 
                        Scotland
                    , but as they grew to maturity, questions began to arise in their minds. One of the
                    rocks upon which the old church split was this query: Shall not each church have the privilege of
                    choosing its own minister? The parent church of Scotland said: No, we will appoint one
                    for you. Thus came into being the branch called the Seceders, who stoutly clung to the right of
                    choosing for themselves in this matter of a minister. This was only one of the many questions that
                    caused the various divisions in the original kirk of 
                        Scotland
                    .
            The sturdy Scotch-Irish who first emigrated to this country and first settled in 
                  New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia
                and the
                    Carolinas, and finally made their way to 
                        Kentucky
                     and Indiana, came with Bible, Confession of Faith, Catechism and Psalm book in hand,
                    and well they knew each one. The first service held by an Associate Presbyterian on Jefferson county
                    soil was in the year 1812. For the time being, the home of George Shannon Sr. was converted into a
                    sanctuary and the service was conducted by Rev. Andrew 
                        Fulton
                    , a typical Scotchman. He had been licensed to preach in Edinburg, 
                        Scotland
                    , and commissioned by the Associate Presbyterian church to go to "that distant
                    and heathen land of 
                        Kentucky
                    " and break unto them the bread of life. He came to 
                        Kentucky
                     and labored some years but the church grew so slowly 
                  
                     1 I am indebted to History of Methodist Church, by
                            Rev. W. W. Snyder, and to newspaper article by R. J. Hurlbut. entitled "Methodism
                            in 
                                Madison
                            ."
               
                     and the cause of slavery so rapidly that he decided to cross
                    the Ohio river and see what he could accomplish there. Perhaps he had heard of
                    the little settlement of people from his own country and felt drawn towards them. They welcomed his
                    coming and as said before, he was at once invited to preach for them at the home of George Shannon
                    Sr. Those who gathered to hear the learned Scotchman were the Shannons, the Andersons, Ledgerwoods,
                    Swans, Taylors, Hays, Millers, and some others. A church was organized and, in 1815, Rev. Andrew 
                        Fulton
                     became their settled pastor. The location selected for their church building was a
                    corner lot on the farm of James Matthews, in 
                        Hanover
                     township. It was central and in close proximity to a never-failing spring of water.
                    They named the church Carmel (a garden land), and most fitting was the name, for on every hand were
                    fields rich in cultivation. Mr. Fulton's parish covered a radius of from twelve to twenty
                    miles. He was a man 60 years of age. This was before that iniquitous device of modern times, called
                    "the dead line," had been invented. Life was strenuous for this minister of the
                    gospel. He made his trips to different preaching stations on horseback, over poor roads, and in all
                    kinds of weather. Big creek station was twenty miles from home; Clark in 
                        Clark county
                    , twelve miles in another direction. Little wonder that after only one year and a half,
                    he laid down his earthly armor for a kingly crown. His heartbroken people laid him to rest in the
                    churchyard near by. Mr. Fulton was a man of fine attainments, educated at the University of
                    Edinburg. His congregation must have been composed of people of more than ordinary intelligence to
                    so appreciate his sermons.
            There was no way of heating the churches in those days and the Carmel congregation in cold weather
                    gathered at the home of Alex Thompson near by the church. In the heat of summer, they worshipped in
                    God's green temple, the locust grove surrounding the church. The celebration of the
                    Lord's Supper was made a very solemn occasion. The Saturday before communion was made day
                    of fasting and prayer. The church members who lived at a distance came and stopped with those near
                    the church after the religious services of the day were over. On Saturday evening those who had
                    conscientiously  kept the fast formed a line and marched to the
                    front of the pulpit where the minister and elders stood and received the sacred lead or token of
                    admittance to the Lord's table on the following day. This custom, together with lining
                    out the Psalms, was dispensed with some years ago. The congregation, young and old, always stood
                    during prayer and sometimes it was three quarters of an hour long. Glad enough they must have been
                    to be seated, but what must have been the weariness at the end of the sermon two hours long. In
                    their sermons great stress was laid on this point: God's people must contend earnestly
                    for the faith once delivered to the saints. After the death of Mr. Fulton, so attached had they
                    become to him, that in considering a call to another, they said: None but a Scotchman need apply In
                    about two years they found a man whose birth and mental qualities were similar to those of Mr.
                    Fulton. In fact, he excelled Mr. Fulton as a Hebrew scholar. So the Carmel congregation extended a
                    call to Rev. Mr. Isaacs to become their pastor, in the year 1821. All ministers of the gospel are
                    not ministers of finance. So it proved in the case of Mr. Isaacs. He was most acceptable as a
                    preacher and all went well until he built for himself a large and comfortable home, found himself in
                    debt, and what may have been worse, in disfavor with some of his congregation. Not willing to let
                    the minister work out his own indebtedness, they contended among themselves until the pastor said he
                    would resign. Part of the congregation begged him to remain, but he thought best to go and removed
                    to 
                        Ohio
                    . This left two factions in the church: the supporters of Mr. Isaacs and the enemies of
                    the same. No longer could they affiliate, so twenty-seven of the Carmel congregation withdrew and
                    built another church on ground given by George Shannon Sr. The spot selected was good clay for brick
                    making, so they made a brick kiln in the center and built the church up around it. This unique piece
                    of work was done in 1830, and the church was called Bethel. It belonged to the Associate Reformed
                    Presbyterian body, the same as Caledonia church, and unlike Carmel, which was a member of the body
                    called the Seceders. Bethel church supported a inister. Rev. John McDill, for a few years and then
                    joined with Caledonia church in the support and ministrations 
                    of a preacher in the person of Rev. N. R. Kirkpatrick. At length, under the pastorate of Rev. Moses
                    Arnott, Bethel church joined forces with Carmel and now shares in the support of its pastor with
                    alternate services in its own church building. Carmel, Bethel, Caledonia and 
                        Madison
                     United Presbyterian churches comprised all of that denomination in Jefferson county.
            Caledonia church is in 
                        Shelby
                     township. Services under this branch of the Associate Reformed Presbyterian church are
                    known to have been held as early as 1818 or 1820. The church was fully organized under Rev. James
                    Worth, in 1834, and the land for the building was given by the Culbertsons; an acre apiece by each,
                    John, James and Samuel. This was known as the Scotch settlement, and among the organizers of the
                    church were Andrew Morton, Peter 
                        Van
                     Nice, William Culbertson, Andrew Anderson, Walter Weir and others.
            We must add one item concerning the sons of Caledonia. The Culbertsons, Glenn and Jamieson families
                    have furnished a galaxy of men who shine in the universities and colleges over our land.
            The records of the United Presbyterian church of 
                        Madison
                     are very meager. Sometime before 1836 the Associated Presbyterian body had a preaching
                    station at 
                        Madison
                    . In that year, 1836, Rev. George M. Hall came to preach for the congregation which was
                    composed of thirteen families. In about eight years the congregation was strong enough numerically
                    to call a settled pastor. They chose one of the first graduates of 
                        Hanover
                     college, an Americanized Scotchman by the name of James 
                        Brown
                    , who remained with them eleven years. The first elders in the 
                        Madison
                     church were Cranston Taylor, James Falconer and Ebenezer Hillis. The latter, Ebenezer
                    Hillis, was the leading man in the church. He lived in the country, but every Sabbath day, he and
                    all of his family came to attend church. They attended morning service, ate their lunch, which they
                    brought with them, and remained for the afternoon service. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy
                    was a never forgotten command in his household. No week-end guests could leave his house until
                    Monday morning came, nor could they plead an excuse for remaining at home from church. Elder Hillis
                    was also a  man of importance in public affairs, serving as
                    lieutenantgovernor of Indiana. When the Associate, Associate Reformed and Seceders united in 1858,
                    the 
                        Madison
                     church became known as United Presbyterian. From 1860 the church began to decline owing
                    to changes in the town and deaths and removals and in 1912 the congregation voted to disband. This
                    old landmark on the corner of Vine and Third streets is now in the hands of the W. C. T. U., who are
                    making very good use of it.1
            
            PRESBYTERIAN
            The first resident Presbyterian minister in this county was William Robinson. He organized the first
                    church of this denomination in 
                        Madison
                     in 1815. There were not over twenty members. There are no records of the exact time and
                    place of this organization but the names of the elders are given, viz: John Ritchie, Robert
                    Symington and Christopher G. Bergen. They were elected in 1816.
            Mr. Robinson had the twofold occupation of schoolmaster and preacher. The salaries paid in those days
                    did not provide a living for the preacher. He must augment that stipend in some way and he was
                    eminently fitted for teaching, so the little town was doubly favored. Whether Mr. Robinson outgrew
                    the town, or for what reason we know not, but his stay was of only two years' duration.
            In 1818 the congregation was able to erect a brick church of good size which stood on West street at
                    the head of what is now called Presbyterian Ave. The avenue derived its name from the location of
                    the church. At the first communion service held in the new church, three ministers officiated:
                    Thomas Cleland, John M. Dickey, and Thomas C. Searle. Thirteen additions were made at that time,
                    making thirty-three in all Another elder was chosen, David McClure. Rev. Thomas C. Searle, a young
                    missionary sent out from 
                        Massachusetts
                    , preached for the 
                        Madison
                     church, and also the one at 
                        Hanover
                    , in 1819. So pleased were both congregations with the ministrations of Mr. Searle that
                    they agreed to call him as their joint pastor, each to pay him the sum 
                  
                     1 I am indebted for information to Robert E. Culbertson, Harley L.
                            Graham, Rev. N. B. McClung, George Gordon, and to sermon by Rev. H. P. Jackson, delivered at
                            the seventieth anniversary of Carmel Church.
               
                     of $200.00 per year, making his salary
                    $400.00, with the oversight of both parishes. Mr. Searle accepted the call and was
                    installed by the Presbytery of 
                        Louisville
                    , there being no such body as that yet in Indiana. The two churches sustained a terrible
                    loss in the death of this scholarly, pious young man after a pastorate of only one year. He was laid
                    to rest in the Third street graveyard, which after many, many years, has been transformed into a
                    park.
            After a lapse of two years, the Rev. Joseph Trimble was called to fill the place of Mr. Searle, but
                    he too fell a victim to the prevailing fever (presumably typhoid) and died before he was installed.
                    His remains were laid in the same graveyard where only two years before the former
                    pastor's remains had been consigned to the dust. These sad occurrences in 
                        Madison
                    , followed by the death of two more young ministers in a neighboring field, so deeply
                    affected the community that a day of fasting and prayer was appointed that the people might
                    "humble themselves before God and interpret aright his dealings."
            In 1823 the presbytery of 
                        Louisville
                     petitioned the synod of 
                        Kentucky
                     to form a new presbytery north of the Ohio river, to be called the
                    presbytery of 
                        Salem
                    . This request was granted and the boundary lines of 
                        Salem
                     presbytery included Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Missouri
                    . The synod of Indiana was created in 1826 and was almost boundless. Some accounts say
                    it included all of the Northwest territory. As the presbytery of 
                        Salem
                     enlarged, it was divided into three: 
                  Salem, Wabash
                and 
                        Madison
                    . At length the 
                        Madison
                     Presbyterian church secured another minister, the Rev. James H. Johnston. And now
                    "they thanked God and took courage." Mr. Johnston brought a new era of prosperity
                    and added much to the church's efficiency. But the time came when the congregation could
                    no longer worship together in the beauty of holiness.
            After eight years of united effort under James Johnston, sixty three members signed a petition
                    begging the presbytery of 
                        Madison
                     to form them into a separate body to be known as the Second Presbyterian church of 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana. Then another petition came before the presbytery not to  grant the request for reasons herein stated, the substance of the same
                    being: 
                        Because the church is not large enough when divided to support two ministers. Because we have
                            been long united. Because there is nothing personal to call for a separation, but all the
                            reasons that exist arise from diversity of* opinions as to doctrine and duty, and
                            this same difference exists in a greater or less degree throughout almost the whole extent
                            of the Presbyterian church. We can not hope that the present proposed separation will have
                            any tendency to lessen the evil, but will widen the breach and bring with it a train of
                            evils which we feel bound as far as is in our power to prevent. Hoping and praying that the
                            Lord may deliver us from our difficulties, we ardently and affectionately request the
                            presbytery not to sanction the erection of a second Presbyterian church in 
                                Madison
                             at present.
                    
            
            The petitioners who wished to erect the Second Presbyterian church included the names of the Laniers,
                    Leonards, Sullivans, Whitneys, Hendricks, Mclntyres and others, making sixty-three in all. The
                    petitioners who opposed included the names of the Kings, Lyles, McClures, Reas, Underwoods, Parks,
                    McKees and others, making twenty-eight in all. The presbytery was composed of such men as John
                    Finley Crowe, James Blythe, John Matthews, James H. Johnston, Samuel Grigg, John I. Brown, James
                    Cunningham, Wiliamson Dunn, Jeremiah Sullivan and Girardus Ryker. They listened to the arguments
                    presented by each side. What should they do? It required the wisdom of a Solomon. Perhaps
                    the presbytery recalled the incident in Solomon's life and were guided by it when they
                    said: "Divide, and if the party of the first part does' not relent, the decision
                    is final." The petitioners and the minister, Rev. James H. Johnston, went with them. The
                    cause of this trouble was no trivial one. In four years' time it affected the whole
                    Presbyterian church throughout the 
                        United States
                    . Some aver that it was the collision of Calvinism (inherent in the old-time
                    Presbyterian), and what was termed the New 
                        England
                     theology. And some claim that if there had been no such thing as slavery the church
                    never would have divided. At any rate there came into existence two factions: The Old School,
                    Calvinistic and Pro-Slavery in its tendency, the New School, ameliorated by the so-called New 
                        England
                     Theology and Anti-Slavery in its tendency. The congregation which remained in the
                    church building of West street took the name of First Presbyterian church of 
                    
                        Madison
                    , and was Old School in its leanings. The church newly formed took the name of the
                    Second Presbyterian church of 
                        Madison
                     and was New School in its leanings. The first elders elected to serve in the Second
                    church were John Ritchie, James Wilson and Jeremiah Sullivan. This congregation worshipped for a
                    time in the Masonic hall which stood where our present city building stands, on West street. Efforts
                    were made by outside parties to bring about a reconciliation between the divided congregations, but
                    all in vain. In 1835 the Second church bought the lot on Third and West streets and built the
                    edifice still in use. The cost of lot and church building was $8,000. It is said that the
                    First and Second churches were near enough to hear the sound of each other's voices. J.
                    H. Johnson continued pastor of the Second church for two years, then resigned, coming back later as
                    a supply. After his final departure, in 1838, Henry Little, who was serving as a home missionary in
                    this section, was called to the pastorate and accepted. His work as a home missionary had been
                    eminently successful and the board gave him up with reluctance. After a pastorate of two years, the
                    board so pressed their claims on Reverend Little that he dissolved his relationship with the church
                    as pastor (but continued a member of this church as long as he lived) and again took up the touring
                    of Indiana, 
                  Illinois, Ohio
                and 
                        Kentucky
                     as missionary. The little flock left behind known as the First Presbyterian church were
                    enfeebled in numbers, but not in zeal or courage. We find them maintaining all their services, with
                    Rev. J. T. Russel, as stated, supply. Soon after a call was given to Rev. William C. Matthews, who
                    accepted and through whose ministrations of six years blessings both temporal and spiritual visited
                    the church. During Dr. Matthews' pastorate, in 1836, the church building on West street,
                    facing Presbyterian avenue, was taken down and a new church built on the ground where now stands
                    Lodge's hardware store, on Main street. Records tell us that it was a handsome structure,
                    and the loss by fire which befell it in 1845 was a calamity. However, the congregation was not
                    impoverished, and the following year, 1846, found them building another house of worship on 
                        Broadway
                    , the one still in use.
            
            There are seven Presbyterian churches in Jefferson county: 
                        Madison
                    , organized in 1815; 
                        Hanover
                    , 1819; Jefferson, in 
                        Shelby
                     township, 1818; Sharon, near Swanville, in 
                        Hanover
                     township; 
                        Monroe
                     and Smyrna.
            HANOVER
            Presbyterianism is indigenous to the soil of 
                        Hanover
                    , and William Dunn is the man who nurtured it and made it bring forth its first fruit.
                    When the 
                        United States
                     government bought this section of country from the Indians, the first man to buy land
                    and build a home in 
                        Hanover
                     township was Williamson Dunn, from 
                        Kentucky
                    . Here, in 1806, he, with his wife and two children, settled and became the nucleus
                    around which other Scotch-Irish gathered. So necessary did he think it to be identified with a
                    church that he went twenty-four miles to 
                        Charlestown
                     and enrolled his name with the Presbyterians there until a church should be organized
                    nearer home. Soon other families came and services were held at the Dunn home, conducted by
                    missionaries, among them Searle, sent out to Indiana from 
                        Massachusetts
                    . As a supply, in 1819, he looked after the 
                        Madison
                     Presbyterian church and this neighboring one six miles distant, for as yet it had no
                    name. Reverend Searle had a young wife, whose home had been in 
                  Hanover, New Hampshire
               . No
                    doubt her thoughts often dwelt upon the home she had left behind, so when a name was desired for the
                    new parish, Mrs. Searle said it shall be 
                        Hanover
                    . As the population increased in 
                        Hanover
                     township, the subject of having a church of their own began to be agitated, and in 1820 
                        Hanover
                     congregation was set apart from 
                        Madison
                    , the boundary line being at Clifty creek. This called for a church building in which to
                    worship, and Williamson Dunn, prompted by every good motive, gave the ground on which it should be
                    erected. Subscriptions were solicited, but ready money the people had not, so they gave of their
                    substance such as wheat, pork, shingles and various commodities, and of their labor were not
                    stinting. There were four men in the congregation who agreed to meet the indebtedness, if such there
                    should be, in equal shares. They were George Logan, Benjamin Smythe, Robert Symington and Jesse
                    Dickerson. The building was of stone, of good size,  but rude in
                    construction and devoid of anything ornamental in the way of furnishings, so it is not likely those
                    four men who pledged themselves to meet any indebtedness were ever called upon. The gifted young
                    pastor, Thomas Searle, did not live to see the building completed. Before the work progressed very
                    far, he was smitten with a fever and died and was buried in 
                        Madison
                    , as stated in a former article. The 
                        Hanover
                     church mourned for its pastor, who had endeared himself to them by his wise
                    administration in the pulpit and in public affairs. Educated in 
                        Massachusetts
                    , he was endowed with talents which had been brought into use in founding churches and
                    framing laws. Where should the 
                        Hanover
                     church look for help in this time of need. Indiana was too young to furnish any, and
                    the needy churches must look elsewhere. They had heard of one John Finley Crowe of
                            
                  Shelbyville, Kentucky
               , and to him they extended the call. He accepted, coming to 
                        Hanover
                     in 1823. He was a young man, thirty-six years of age, but had passed through quite an
                    experience. 
                        North Carolina
                     was his native state, but when fifteen years of age he migrated with his parents to the
                    land beyond the Mississippi river. With a number of families who went with them
                    they formed a little colony, and as there were children in these families, a school was needed. John
                    Finley Crowe became the village schoolmaster in this little town of Bellevue, 
                        Missouri
                    . Fortunately, this man heard a sermon by an itinerant Methodist preacher that convinced
                    him he must enter the ministry. He went from the little home in Bellevue, 
                        Missouri
                    , to 
                  Danville, Kentucky
               , the center of Presbyterian culture and refinement
                    in those days. He absorbed everything about him that was good and improving, prepared himself for
                    college, and in time passed through the theological seminary and was licensed to preach. His first
                    charge was a group of mission churches in 
                        Kentucky
                    . The practice of slavery greatly exercised him and he began to talk and write on the
                    subject until he aroused such an antipathy that his own life was in jeopardy. Just at this juncture
                    came the call from the church at 
                        Hanover
                    . He spoke of it as the voice of God speaking through his people. It was a happy event
                    for 
                        Hanover
                     and for him. His labors are so  interwoven with the
                    cause of education and founding of 
                        Hanover
                     college that it shall be left for that article.
            EVANGELICAL LUTHERAN AND REFORMED
            This denomination was organized into a church and incorporated July 31, 1842. The church building
                    first occupied by this congregation was one which had been built by the Episcopalians on the corner
                    of what were then called Grafton and Main Cross streets. It was located where the residence of Dr.
                    Hanna now stands. The Episcopalians vacated this church building because it was too far up town and
                    for other reasons. The first trustees of the Lutheran church were B. Waide, D. Schneider and P.
                    Gautzhier, with M. Applenalb as secretary. As soon as they were organized, they obtained a minister
                    in the person of Reverend Krack. Those prominent in the church of that day were the Rists, Dubachs,
                    Friedersdorfs, Scheiks and Lotz, besides the above named trustees and secretary. Early in the
                    church's history the women put their shoulders to the wheel, organizing the first sewing
                    society in December, 1847. This is probably the parent of all other Ladies' Aid Societies
                    in the county.
            They were always a music loving company of worshipers. For twenty-five years Miss Louise Huber, who
                    is still in our midst, was organist and leader of the choir.
            Not until 1872 did the Lutherans leave their little house of worship for the present building, which
                    was formerly St. John's Methodist church, built in 1831. This is the only Lutheran church
                    in Jefferson county. It has always been large and flourishing.
            ADATH ISRAEL
            The organization of the Jewish congregation in 
                        Madison
                     is lost in oblivion. There has never been but this one synagogue in the county. The Jew
                    has no liking for the isolated life in the country. Towns with commercial activity have always been
                    his choice. His name is also linked with industry and prosperity, so we may safely infer that as
                    soon as 
                        Madison
                     began to take on the air of enterprise, the Jews came, adding to its growth in a most
                    substantial manner.
            Before the year 1868 this congregation gathered for worship in the second story of the building now
                    occupied by the  Lotz Brothers' shoe store. In that
                    year (1868) they bought the present synagogue from the school trustees. It was built by the
                    Methodists in 1829, but abandoned and sold to the school board later.
            The trustees of the congregation at that time were: Henry Hoffstadt, Max Kronenberger, Raphael
                    Sulzer, Aaron Marks, Elias Hilb and Ascher Hoffstadt. On the doorway of the synagogue is this
                    stately inscription that means so much: "The House of the Lord."
            The changes that have come to 
                        Madison
                     have affected this congregation more than any other. Not that they have deserted or
                    proved unfaithful to the old Mosaic Law. Many have gone the way of all earth and many have followed
                    the swifter currents of business life that flow elsewhere.
            This gathering of the Children of 
                        Israel
                     is probably conspicuous in being the smallest Jewish congregation in the world. The
                    services are conducted by one of the members, I. L. Stern, without compensation.
            PROTESTANT EPISCOPAL
            The 
                        Madison
                     church of this denomination is the only one in Jefferson county. Services were first
                    held according to its liturgy in June, 1835. This service was conducted in S. T. Russel's
                    schoolhouse, on West street, by Reverend Peers. The congregation was organized into a parish for the
                    purpose of worshipping Almighty God according to the rites and ceremonies of the Protestant
                    Episcopal church of the 
                        United States
                     of America. M. C. Eggleston, J. F. D. Lanier, Courtland Cushing, Isaac Lee and Adolphus
                    Flint were elected trustees. J. G. Marshall, N. C. Brace, J. F. D. Lanier, Isaac Lee, James Siddall,
                    E. G. Doan and M. C. Eggleston were made vestrymen, and Dr. King treasurer of the church.
            The congregation soon called Reverend Lamon to become their rector. He accepted and held services in
                    the Masonichall, on West street (where our city building now stands), and also in the new Second
                    Presbyterian church, corner of West and Third. The following year brought a change in rectors, Lloyd
                    Windsor succeeding Mr. Lamson. It so happened that the man who was employed as sexton had two
                    qualifications. He not only knew how to keep the building  in
                    order, but he also was a musician, so he was given the two-fold occupation of sexton and choir
                    leader, both offices to be filled for the sum of $75.00 per year.
            With another year came another change in rectors, and the new one was Henry Caswell. The congregation
                    began to talk seriously of building a church of their own, and Mr. Caswell said he would plan it if
                    they would build it. They looked about the town for a suitable location which would come within
                    their means. At this juncture Mr. John McIntyre offered them a lot on the corner of Main Cross and
                    Grafton streets. Grafton street is now known as Church street. This offer was gratefully accepted,
                    and the plan which Mr. Caswell, assisted by Matthew Temperly, had made was used and the cornerstone
                    laid in June, 1838.
            There developed much dissatisfaction among the church attendants because of the location of the
                    building. They said it was too far up town, and financial matters became affected so the
                    Episcopalians sold their church to the Lutherans in 1841. They worshipped then for a time in
                    Robert's Chapel,: on Third street. Then followed a succession of rectors too numerous to
                    mention till we come down to 1848, when we find the congregation under the spiritual care of Robert
                    B. Claxton. For the past seven years the church had been without a fixed abode, holding services in
                    many different places; in the private school building on Poplar street, now the home of William
                    Roth; in the lecture room of the First Presbyterian church, on Main street, where Lodge's
                    hardware store now stands; in an upper room over the 
                        Madison
                     insurance company's office, and in the second story of the Cornett building,
                    corner of Main and Mulberry streets.
            Dr. Claxton saw plainly that their greatest need was a church of their own, so he urged their
                    building at once. Then came the question of selecting a site. Several were thought of, but
                    fortunately for them, Mr. George W. Leonard offered a lot on the east side of Mulberry street, just
                    north of Third street, with the reservation that five pews should be set aside for himself, wife and
                    heirs. This offer was accepted by trustees and a plan for a new building was selected. It was to be
                    gothic in style of architecture. The cornerstone was laid in October, 1848, and it required two
                    years to complete the  edifice. It was given the name Christ
                    Church of 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana. The first service was held in the new church in January, 1850. It was
                    consecrated by Bishop Upfold of 
                        Kentucky
                     in February, 1850.
            To the unfaltering faith and works of Dr. Claxton and to substantial aid given by a most valued
                    church member, Joseph W. Moore, a banker of 
                        Madison
                    , the congregation were indebted for its beautiful house of worship.
            The Sunday school building was erected in 1852, and Robert John Wharton was the first superintendent,
                    holding that office a number of years. At his death the office was filled by James Siddall, who
                    remained superintendent as long as he lived, nineteen years.
            The first person baptized in the church was Charles H. Doan. The first couple married in church was
                    Robert E. Lee and 
                        Virginia
                     Lodge, and the second couple Theo. S. Paine and Sarah Siddall. The first funeral from
                    the church was that of William Brown Bower.
            Christ church was the recipient of many useful and ornamental gifts. The solid silver communion
                    service was sent to the church from Birmingham, 
                        England
                    . The Bible and prayer book were given by a firm in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and a white marble font given by Mrs. Ellen Shrewsbury, on which was inscribed
                    "To the Glory of God." Dr. Claxon resigned in 1853, greatly to the regret of his
                    congregation. Then came short pastorates of Patrick Henry Greenleaf and George H. McKnight, adding
                    to the church's strength.
            In 1864 the residence on the corner of Third and Mulberry was procured as a rectory, making the
                    parochial equipment complete, for which the congregation of Episcopalians had reason for
                    thanksgiving and pardonable pride.
            CATHOLIC
            This section of the country lying on the highway between the French possessions in 
                        Canada
                     and those in 
                        Louisiana
                     was often traversed by soldiers of the French army, and with them always came a soldier
                    of the cross, a missionary of the Catholic faith. As they stopped by the way to engage in service,
                    the Indians gathered around, eager to watch the performance of the rites of the mass. French Jesuits
                    came  to labor among the red men, sought their friendship and
                    then gradually unfolded to them the faith they professed. Many embraced the faith and proved loyal,
                    while others became traitorous both in friendship and religious teachings. But the fathers were
                    never dismayed. There is an oral tradition, but no word to substantiate it, that as early in the
                    history of the country as 1817 a Catholic priest on a missionary tour through this part of the state
                    stopped in 
                        Madison
                     and held service in a frame building on the corner of what is now 
                        Broadway
                     and Third, the home at present of Moses Cochran. There were four or five Catholic
                    families living here at that time, among them the family of William Shannon, John Coleman, the
                    O'Keefes and the father of Judge Sullivan. The marriages in some of these families,
                    having been performed by a magistrate, were considered null and void and the couples were remarried
                    by this missionary priest. Also, several children received the rites of baptism. Many non-Catholics
                    attended this service and the sermon delivered by the priest edified them all.
            Th Catholic churches of Jefferson county are four in number, viz: St. Michael's, in the
                    town of 
                        Madison
                    , organized in 1837; St. Mary's, 1850; St. Patrick's, in North 
                        Madison
                    , 1853; St. Anthony's, on Indian 
                        Kentucky
                     Creek, 1869.
            These churches belong to the 
                        Madison
                     district, which is a part of the diocese of 
                        Vincennes
                    . This diocese was set apart in 1834 and the first bishop appointed by the Pope was the
                    Rt. Rev. Dr. Brute. He was a Frenchman by birth. At the time of his appointment as bishop, he was
                    filling the chair of professor of theology at St. Mary's College, in Emmittsburg, Md. As
                    bishop his jurisdiction extended over Indiana and a part of 
                        Illinois
                    . In 1857 a change was made in the diocese, cutting down its limits, probably owing to
                    increase in population. Its boundary lines on the north are the southern county lines of
                            
                  Fountain, Montgomery, Boone, Hamilton, Madison, Delaware, Randolph
                and 
                        Warren
                     counties. On the south, east and west it is bounded by the state lines. Bishop Brute
                    made his periodical visits over the diocese on horseback and his experiences were those of hunger,
                    fatigue, danger and exposure, which ultimately brought on tuberculosis and caused his death.
            
            In 1837 the bishop selected a man whom he thought fitted for the work as resident priest in the
                    little town of 
                        Madison
                    . His field was scattered over Jefferson, 
                        Switzerland
                    , Jennings and part of 
                        Ripley
                     counties. Michael Edgar Shaw, the new priest, was reared in the Church of 
                        England
                    . When a young man he enlisted in the British army and rose to the rank of a
                    commissioned officer. Towards the close of his army life he embraced the Catholic faith and,
                    resigning his commission, took up the study for the priesthood. 
                        Madison
                     was his first pastorate, and S't. Michael's church was organized
                    by Father Shaw in 1837. The life of a soldier in the British army did not call for more courage,
                    fidelity and endurance than did the life of this new priest in this new country. His flock was
                    scattered over four counties where there were poor roadways over hills and dales and the journeys
                    must be made on horseback. An assistant was given him in the person of Rev. J. F. Plunkett. Having
                    as yet no church edifice, the congregation gathered for worship in the Masonic hall, on West street,
                    which stood where our present City hall stands. Father Shaw's first baptismal entry was
                    on July 30, 1837. The Masonic hall had been used by various denominations and also for school
                    purposes, and finally the use of it was denied to all. The Courthouse was used by Father Shaw and
                    his congregation for some time, but the sheriff, who held the keys, absented himself on one
                    occasion, and so a different place must be found. Father Shaw cast about until he found a room over
                    Jonathan Fitch's pork house, on the corner of Main Cross and Walnut streets, where P.
                    Hoffman's store is now located.
            Feeling the necessity of a church building, Father Shaw hastened its erection as fast as means would
                    allow. The ground was given by Mr. John Mclntyre, an Irish Protestant, and tradition has it that the
                    stone out of which the church was built was taken from the second cut on the railroad incline when
                    the road was blasted through. The congregation was composed mostly of people who had come to America
                    to seek their fortunes, but in some way the money was raised to complete the church. Father Shaw may
                    have been as ingenious as Bishop Brute was in another locality. A church edifice was badly needed
                    and the people poor in this world's  goods, but every
                    Irish woman had her pig pen. So this is the way the bishop financed the church building. He said to
                    the women: "Each of you pick out the best pig in the litter, fatten it and bring it to me
                    in the fall." This they did, and the bishop said: "A finer lot of hogs was never
                    sent out of 
                        Daviess county
                    ," and the church was built. Probably those very hogs came to 
                        Madison
                    's porkhouses, for at that time 
                        Madison
                     was the porkopolis of the west. 
                        Madison
                     was the objective point of many an emigrant. From 
                        Cincinnati
                     they came down the Ohio river to the town of 
                        Madison
                    , where opportunity beckoned.
            So many foreigners were arriving that many different languages were spoken on its streets. Among the
                    foreignspeaking people were many Catholics. Many countries of the European continent were
                    represented in the families of the Pfaus, the Horuffs, Nodlers, Wehrles, Kochams, Dantzers,
                    Wagoners, Kyles, Deverseys and Prenatts. The Prenatt home was one whose doors were ever open to
                    missionaries who traversed over Indiana. The above named and many more came, bringing their trades
                    and enterprises, adding to the industrial importance of the town, as well as strengthening the
                    churches. Father Shaw was a gifted speaker and, having seen much of the world, he could relate his
                    experiences in an interesting manner. On several occasions the townspeople gathered in the
                    courthouse to hear him lecture.
            Father Shaw remained in 
                        Madison
                     about four years. During that time St. Michael's church was built and it was
                    dedicated on December 22, 1839. How happy the people must have been to have a church of their own,
                    whose doors were ever open, that the penitent might come and offer prayers whenever the cares and
                    sins of the world pressed heavily.
            After Father Shaw left 
                        Madison
                     a number of priests served for brief periods, and then came Rev. Julian Dulane, who
                    added to the work so well begun by opening a parochial school. None of the priests remained long
                    enough to become identified with the town until Father Dupontivice took charge of the church. He was
                    not only a father to his flock, but a man who endeared himself to all with whom he came in contact.
                    He mingled with the people in their home life, and for twenty-seven years went in and out among
                    them, instructing  them in better ways of living. Many
                    housekeepers of that day were indebted to him for choice recipes brought by him from his native
                    land, 
                        France
                    . During the administration of Father Dupontivice, St. Patrick's church at
                    North 
                        Madison
                     was built and a school opened for the children of about sixty Catholic families living
                    there. He also had the cemetery near St. Patrick's church laid out and devoted to the use
                    of Catholics.
            In 1850 it was thought best to separate the Germanspeaking Catholics and establish a church for them,
                    so St. Mary's was built, on Second street, between Walnut and East streets, under the
                    oversight of Rev. Anthony Cairns, who assumed a great burden, as the people had little means with
                    which to build a church. This brings us down to the date limit in these sketches of early churches.
            Rev. Michael L. Guthneck has been longest pastor of a city church. For nearly twenty-five years
                    Father Guthneck has sought to build up the church over which he is the beloved pastor, to beautify
                    the sanctuary and to call the attention of the people from the things of time and sense to things
                    eternal and heavenly. From his own benefactions a superb Italian marble altar has been placed in the
                    church and a sweet chime of bells to call the faithful to prayers and worship. Many are the
                    improvements he has caused to be made in the neighborhood surrounding the church. His influence for
                    good abides over and throughout the town. A church free from debt, and, better than that, with a
                    surplus fund which is a source of revenue, and with such an able and devoted pastor, how blest they
                    are, this church of St. Michael's.
            DISCIPLES
            This denomination can be truthfully called an American product. 
                        Kentucky
                     was its birthplace, and Thomas 
                        Campbell
                     and his son, Alexander, the promulgators. Rev. James W. Lanham, who is the best of
                    authority, says: "This Church of the Disciples was an evolution from what was first known
                    as Newlightism, to the higher and better views which are sometimes discourteously called
                    Campbellism." And he adds: "It was the aim of Alexander 
                        Campbell
                    , great and learned as he was, to be only an humble instrument in the hands of  God in calling men from creeds and sects and traditions to the
                    Bible and to Christ."
            The oldest church of this denomination in Jefferson county is the Liberty church, about twelve miles
                    from 
                        Madison
                    , on the 
                        Michigan
                     road, in 
                        Monroe
                     township. It was organized in 1828 by Elder Beverly Vawter, and the first service was
                    held at the home of Thomas Jameson, the father of Love H. Jameson, who became such a shining light
                    in the church of the Disciples. The home where the service took place is now owned by John J. Denny.
            Thomas Jameson and wife were born in 
                        Virginia
                     and came to 
                        Kentucky
                     and joined the exody to Indiana. There was quite a little settlement where they made
                    their home on the 
                        Michigan
                     road, and these people were mostly of the same religious faith, known by the public as
                    Newlights, but calling themselves simply Christians. Thomas Jamison and wife embraced the faith and
                    were baptized by immersion by a preacher named John McClung. Evidently their beliefs were not wholly
                    acceptable to themselves, for soon the reformatory movement inaugurated by Alexander 
                        Campbell
                     spread abroad, and this small body of worshippers were no longer known as Newlights or
                    Christians, but rather as Campbellites.
            Beverly Vawter came under this new influence, the reformatory movement. Born and brought up in the
                    Baptist faith, a son of Philemon and nephew of Jesse Vawter, the founders of that denomination in
                    Jefferson county, it seems remarkable that he should have changed in the slightest degree from the
                    faith of his fathers. So alive to the work did he become that he preached and organized churches all
                    over the county.
            After organizing Liberty church and preaching for that congregation in various homes for twelve
                    years, he proposed that the Jameson family give the ground and he would see that a church was
                    erected. This was done, and the present building of Liberty Christian church was erected in 1840.
            Beverly Vawter organized the church in 
                        Kent
                     and the one in Manville in 1830. 
                        Madison
                    , Pleasant Ridge and 
                        Lancaster
                     were the next to be organized in Jefferson county. Dupont and Middlefork churches came
                    later.
            
            The denomination differs from others in its form of church government. We might say there is no
                    church government. Every member has a voice in its rulings and there is no appeal to a higher
                    tribunal. If trouble arises, one of the elders rectifies or pacifies it. Any man (or perhaps woman)
                    can preach in this body who feels called to the work and is approved by the congregation. Baptism by
                    immersion is the essential belief and the sacrament is observed every Lord's day. Any one
                    present who has made a profession of faith is invited to partake, thus renouncing close communion.
            Jefferson county has always felt a pride in having been the birthplace of one who became a mighty
                    pillar in the church of the Disciples. Love Jameson was born on his father's farm, on the 
                        Michigan
                     road, in 1811. When eighteen years of age he was baptized according to the rites of the
                    Christian church, and very soon, influenced by Elder Vawter, he began to preach. For several years
                    he confined his labors to Jefferson county, and then extended them to neighboring states. In 1841 he
                    was called to the 
                        Madison
                     church and prospects seemed bright for the young preacher and his bride and the church
                    as an organization. The untimely death of his young wife was such a shock that his health gave way
                    and he was obliged to relinquish his charge as pastor. The following year, 1842, he was called to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and there he spent the remainder of his life, ever showing forth the gospel he
                    professed. He became renowned as much for his singing as his preaching.
            The Manville church of the Disciples, in 
                        Milton
                     township, organized in 1830, deserves special mention. From this church has come one
                    who has been a prophet among them for over sixty years and an active pastor for fifty-five years.
                    Endowed with rare mental gifts and with a personality admirably fitting him for the highest rank
                    among the preachers of the state, he has chosen rather to remain in this obscure valley of Indian 
                        Kentucky
                     creek, hallowing the churches and homes of Jefferson county by his presence, mingling
                    with his friends and neighbors in their joys and sorrows and officiating in a ministerial capacity
                    wherever needed. In fact, you could hardly place him where he would be out of place, so well has he
                    learned the lesson of practical or applied Christianity.  It was
                    by the hands of Love Jameson he, James W. Lanham, received the ordinance of baptism in Indian 
                        Kentucky
                     creek when he was nineteen years of age. It was in 
                        Hanover
                     college he received his collegiate education, and in his study at Manville he has been
                    continuing his studies ever since. It was at Pleasant Ridge he first preached, finally settling down
                    as pastor of the Manville church, and from the pulpit in that stone church he proclaimed the name of
                    the Lord for fifty-five years. Upon his resignation, the people wished to make him pastor emeritus,
                    but he declined the honor. Surely the "valley has been exalted" by his living in
                    it. Our many-sided friend, farmer, statesman, preacher, has had abundant opportunities for the
                    exercise of all his powers, and the story of his happy, peaceful, useful life is a plenary influence
                    to all who are blessed with his acquaintance.1
            
            
               
                  1 I am indebted for information to Rev. James W. Lanham's book,
                            Thrilling Themes in Theology, and to Mrs. M. J. Sanderson and Mrs. Jennie
                        V. Johnson. With three exceptions, living churchmen have not been mentioned in this sketch of
                        Jefferson county churches. These exceptions are that of Rev. James W. Lanham, who served the
                        longest of any pastor of a rural church, and Rev. Michael L. Guthneck, who has served longest as
                        a pastor of a city church, and Mr. I. L. Stern, acting rabbi of the Jewish synagogue
            
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notes
            
               The Centennial History of 
                            Illinois
                        , Volume IV. The Industrial State, 1870-1893. By ERNEST
                    LUDLOW BOGART and CHARLES MANFRED THOMPSON, University of 
                  Illinois, Springfield
               , 1920, pp.
                    553.
            The characteristic feature of the period of 
                        Illinois
                     history covered by this volume is an unbridled competition in the fields of production
                    and commerce. Until 1870 none of the natural resources of the state, except the strictly
                    agricultural, had been touched. The pioneer was primarily a home maker and a home enj oyer. The
                    typical leader of the period following, 1870-1900, was a money maker. It is not accurate to say the
                    captain of industry was more lawless than the pioneer farmer in his struggle. Each was a
                    thorough-going individualist. The farmer would have been dumbfounded had his harvest hands struck
                    and picketed his farm, causing the loss of his crop. Just such was the feeling of McCormick and
                    Pullman. Industrial leaders and farmers with the same traditions found this interest coming in
                    conflict in which the industrialists with their practices of capitalization and monopoly were having
                    the advantage. A third interest, labor, different from both, was struggling for recognition.
                    Transportation interest, distinct from each of the above, entered the struggle, making it still more
                    complex. The farmer justly felt that he was being unduly exploited by these new interests. Each
                    party was organizing for the fight, not always clear as to his enemies and consequently often
                    fighting blindly. Each party, naturally for Americans, turned to the government for relief. The
                    politics of the period, the Liberal Republican, the Greenback, the Union Labor, the Populist and the
                    Free Silver movements, were only the surface reflections of these deeper conflicts. How completely
                    this struggle dominated society is correctly shown by the different chapter headings of the volume
                    under review. Nineteen of the twenty chapters are devoted to the various phases of the struggle.
                    Chapter nine, less than thirty pages, is ample for a discussion of arts and letters during the
                    thirty years. This seems a  pitiful story, and it is. Although
                    society in 1900 was immeasurably wealthier than in 1860, it is doubtful if life was nearly so
                    attractive or enjoyable in 
                        Illinois
                     in 1900 as in 1860. The argument or history is enforced by a mass of detail, but if I
                    have read the story correctly, such is the significance of the volume. It is one of the best volumes
                    of the series. The style is easy and clear. The political struggles are described in
                    straightforward, unequivocal, fearless language. Such stories as the hay market riot, the election
                    of Logan to the senate in 1885, the fiasco of the Liberal Republicans and social life in the
                    seventies might justly be called literary.
            L. E.
         
         
            
               Collections of the 
                            Illinois
                         Historical Library, Volume XIV. Constitutional Series,
                    Volume II. The Constitutional Debates of 1847. Edited with introduction and notes
                    by Arthur Charles Cole, University of 
                  Illinois,
                            Springfield
               , 1919, pp. xxx + 1018.
            The making of constitutions may be called an American profession, for each state has a constitution
                    and it is being constantly changed to meet new conditions and ideas. The debates of the second 
                        Illinois
                     convention are typical. A reading of these debates will give a new appreciation of our
                    national development.
            In his preface to the volume, Mr. Cole points out the difficulty of obtaining reliable sources of
                    information, that the delegates, working in an atmosphere of economy, retrenchment and reform,
                    decided to forego official edition and content themselves with the newspaper versions. The author
                    has reconstructed these debates from the newspapers. They were taken mostly from the tri-weekly 
                  
                            Illinois
                         State Register, a Whig newspaper, and supplemented in important omissions by
                    items from the weekly edition of the same paper, and from the Sangamo Journal, a
                    Democratic organ. These newspapers were partisan and often did not give space to opponents.
                    Reporters and correspondents were not always prompt and often satisfied themselves with memoranda of
                    the topic in discussion. Notwithstanding these conditions, the author has succeeded admirably in
                    bringing the parts together in this volume.
            
            One of the commendable features is the index, which is prepared for the practical use of the
                    political science student. Its use is not limited, for the lover of history will find that it will
                    point out the important current events of the time. The table of contents also contains helps in
                    this respect. Another very attractive feature is the introduction, which sets out incidents of the
                    time, showing the general trend of thought, the men that made up the delegation, questions of
                    national import and party cleavage. The biographical sketches of the delegates in the appendix leads
                    to important identifications.
            On the whole, this book will be very helpful to other bodies similarly engaged. It makes no
                    pretentions either to learning or to originality. For those who have not studied the subject of
                    constitutions in the making, the book offers an excellent introduction to a fund of information
                    which needs to be more widely disseminated.
            R. G. SMITH
         
         
            
               The Centennial History of 
                            Illinois
                        , Volume I. The 
                            Illinois
                         Country, 1673-1818. By CLARENCE WALWORTH ALVORD, University of
                            
                  Illinois, Springfield
               , 1920, pp. 524.
            The plan of this series is co-operative, with an individual author for each of the five volumes. Mr.
                    Alvord is the editorin-chief of the series, a work worthy of the occasion which it commemorates.
            The first volume is notable in many ways. We first get a delighful picture of the 
                        Illinois
                     country as it looked when the Indians still ruled supreme within its limits. But, as
                    the 
                        Illinois
                     country was only a part of the vast Mississippi valley, the author
                    has necessarily taken up the history of the conquest of the whole valley. The 
                        Illinois
                     country, however, because of its location, through the long period of exploration and
                    colonization, was the scene of constant struggle and change. Occasionally we are given glimpses of
                    the real love and devotion which existed between the natives and invaders, as in the case of
                    Marquette and LaSalle and many others. Mr. Alvord has traced the progress of the 
                        Illinois
                     country from the time of the admirable work of these French missionaries through the
                    periods of French and English occupation, the organization under the ordinance of 1787 until  it was admitted into the Union in 1818, with great ability and
                    power, uniting the different parts and influences into a connected whole. In this very interesting
                    development the author never loses sight of the significance and importance of the 
                        Illinois
                     country as the heart of the great Northwest.
            The entire book shows that it was written only by the laborious process of examining masses of
                    documents, letters, and source materials of all kinds, which is especially difficult because of the
                    early period with which the book deals.
            One of the serious defects of the work is the mention of too many names without adequate
                    characterization of each. Another is the tediousness of detail in recounting the almost constant
                    changes among the Indian tribes. Much of this, perhaps, could not be avoided, and in this detail the
                    author never loses sight of the one big idea, the development of the 
                        Illinois
                     country. The book is written in a pleasing style and will interest the scientific
                    historian, as well as the casual reader.
            DORA BENTLEY
         
         
            
               The Centennial History of 
                            Illinois
                        , Volume V. The Modern Commonwealth, 1893-1918. By ERNEST
                    LUDLOW BOGART and JOHN-MABRY MATTHEWES, 
                        Springfield
                    , 1920, pp. 544.
            As the title suggests, this history deals with the economic, political and social development of the
                    people of 
                        Illinois
                     during the last quarter of a century, 1893-1918.
            Progress has been particularly marked in all lines of economic activity. The growth of population,
                    due largely to political and economic opportunities, has stimulated the growth of wealth. 
                        Illinois
                     ranks high as an agricultural state and is the leading corn state in the Union.
                    Education and improvements in farm methods have enabled 
                        Illinois
                     to maintain her agricultural position. 
                        Chicago
                     is the greatest grain market in the 
                        United States
                     and is able to hold her position because of access to water transportation, as well as
                    to the network of railroads. 
                        Illinois
                     in 1893 ranked as the third manufacturing state in the Union. The meat packing
                    industry, mining, printing and publishing and agriculture are the five most important industries of 
                        Illinois
                    . Labor has been restless at various times in 
                        Illinois
                    . The great Pullman strike in 1894 and various other strikes which followed are
                    indication  of the growth and power of the laboring class. Labor
                    difficulties soon led to legislation in behalf of labor. Along with labor unrest came the origin and
                    growth of socialism in 
                        Illinois
                    .
            During the past quarter of a century political development toward a more efficient government has
                    been a slow but steady growth in 
                        Illinois
                    . The merit system of appointment to civil service in 1895, and the reorganization of
                    principal administrative services on a more integrated and systematic basis have been especially
                    noticeable. The governor's powers over both legislation and administration have been
                    increased during the past twenty-five years in 
                        Illinois
                    . As to taxation, the system in 
                        Illinois
                     is rather antiquated, for it was introduced when the state was almost purely
                    agricultural. Undervaluation is the chief defect in the taxation system.
            With the growth of wealth in 
                        Illinois
                     has come the application of this wealth to education, culture and art. The
                    World's Columbian Exposition of 1893 was a decided stimulus to the social development of
                    the state. In the few years following university buildings were erected, libraries, museums and art
                    institutes were erected and made adequate for the needs of a twentieth century people. A new outdoor
                    life developed in 
                        Illinois
                    , 1890-1900, and brought to the front all kinds of modern sports and athletics.
            
               
                        Illinois
                    , in spite of her large German element and the general dissatisfaction at first,
                    achieved a good record in the World War. From point of view of international relations, 
                        Illinois
                     is the most important state in the Mississippi valley. During the
                    World War the citizenry of 
                        Illinois
                     responded with growing enthusiasm and achieved a great record both at home and abroad.
            The history of the people of 
                        Illinois
                     from 1893 to 1918 is clearly stated and is easy to understand. There are a great many
                    details given, but these do not detract from the interest of the account. The story of the state and
                    people of 
                        Illinois
                     from 1893 to 1918 is typical of the development of the American state.
            HENRIETTA JANE ASKREN
         
         
            
               History and Doctrines of the Chtirch of the Brethren. By Otto Winger, President
                    of 
                        Manchester
                     College. Brethren Publishing House. Elgin, 
                        Illinois
                    . 1920, pp. 320.
            
            This is a brief textbook containing the history government, doctrines, ordinances and ceremonies of
                    the Brethren church. In many ways these folk are unique. Organized at Schwarzenau, 
                        Germany
                    , in 1708, under the shadow of ecclesiastical power they still show the influence of
                    this early discipline. Like the Quakers, they take no part in war, and little, if any, in politics.
                    They settle their difficulties out of court when possible, join no oathbound or secret societies,
                    attend no places of entertainment for pleasure, live the simple life, frugal almost to the point of
                    severity, practice close communion, triple forward immersion in baptism, greet with the holy kiss,
                    receive with the right hand of fellowship, wash each other's feet, shake hands and kiss
                    at the celebration of the Lord's Supper, believe in the real presence and practice more
                    democracy of a kind and charity than any other church. Under the necessities of modern life the
                    Brethren are breaking gradually from many of their ancient customs. As a class they are among the
                    most prosperous farmers in the state. On their farms are to be found the best machinery including
                    automobiles. Excepting their antipathy for the barber and the tailor one can scarcely recognize them
                    among worldly folks. Much of the money spent foolishly by ordinary people is now being used by them
                    on education, missions and charity. The book in review covers the field indicated in a plain,
                    dignified, straightforward style. It is to be hoped that Dr. Winger will favor us with a more
                    philosophic study of the German religious revolt beginning in the mysticism prevalent about the time
                    of Luther and taking on many forms and names both in 
                        Germany
                     and America. He has the solid qualities of scholarship united with the sympathy and
                    insight to give us an invaluable aid in this difficult field of history.
            P. M. NKNEMAKER
         
         
            
               The Rise of Methodism in the West, Being the Journal of the Western Conference,
                    1800-1811. Edited with notes and introduction by William Warren Sweet, Professor of History, DePauw
                    University, 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 1920, pp. 207.
            In Part I of this little book the author gives an interesting sketch of the organization of the
                    Methodist Episcopal church and of the coming of the aggressive Circuit Rider into  the Mississippi valley. Part II is a publication,
                    for the first time, of the journals of the Western annual conference for the years 1800 to 1811,
                    inclusive, with valuable notes made up, for the major part, of quotations from the journal of Bishop
                    Asbury.
            Except that the title may be a little too broad, and barring an extra quotation marked on page 21,
                    and the repetition on page 61 of the Cartwright story found at page 30, the book is well gotten up
                    and carefully edited, and gives to the student of history an insight into the great growth of
                    Methodism in the democratic Middle West. The author has rendered a good service to loyal Methodists,
                    and every student of the Mississippi valley can profit by a perusal of the
                    book.
            C. J. CARPENTER
         
         
            
               A History of 
                            Missouri
                        . By EUGENE MORROW VlOLETTE, Professor of History, State Normal School,
                    Kirksville, 
                        Missouri
                    . (D. C. Heath & Company, 
                  Boston, New York, Chicago
               , 1918, xxxiii + 500.)
            The purpose of the author in writing a history of 
                        Missouri
                     was to give Missourians a knowledge of history of their own state in a single brief,
                    interesting volume. The state itself has had a history of unusual interest and ranks high in
                    contributing to our national development. The plan of the book is different from many histories in
                    that it lays little stress upon events in chronological order. Little space is given to events that
                    were strictly local, but those topics that have signficance in national history are emphasized.
            The author seems to emphasize the early history of 
                        Missouri
                     as being more important, for no less than eighteen out of twenty-three chapters are
                    given to the period from the beginning of colonization, about the middle of the eighteenth century,
                    up to and including the Civil war. The beginning chapters are given to the times when the territory
                    belonged to 
                        France
                    . These are followed by the period of settling and western migration, the purchase of
                    the territory from 
                        France
                     and the expedition of Lewis and Clark. The struggle for admission into the Union is
                    narrated at length, and this is followed by chapters on the Mexican and Civil wars, emphasizing  the part played by Missourians. Several chapters in the fore
                    part of the book and all the closing ones are given over to economic and social development of the
                    state. Throughout the book the author does honor to the leading personages of the state and to the
                    deeds accomplished by them. The author uses numerous marginal topics, and an extensive table of
                    contents and a good index. A bibliography completes the reading matter, the author having drawn
                    freely from the works of many writers. Maps, charts and illustrations appear quite frequently, and
                    these, together with the simplicity of the language, make the book a very interesting and useful one
                    to be used either as a text or book of reference.
            ROBERT D. WILLIAMS
         
         
            
               William Henry Wishard, a Doctor of the Old School. By his daughter, Elizabeth
                    Mobeland Wishakd, with memorial services, his historical addresses and papers and brief history of
                    his wife's ancestry. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1920, pp. 340.
            The name Wishard is an old one, having been traced back to Robert Guiscard. The family is said to
                    have followed William! the Conqueror into 
                        England
                    , and! there received liberal grants of land for distinguished service in the
                    battle of Hastings. Some of the family later migrated to 
                        Scotland
                    , where they were well known as early as the thirteenth century, many of them serving in
                    prominent positions in both church and state. During the reign of James VI, Sir John Wishart moved
                    to 
                        Ireland
                    . In 1772 William Wishard and family came to America, settling near 
                        Philadelphia
                    . After serving in the Revolution he moved west to Nicholas county, 
                        Kentucky
                    . In 1825 the family moved to Indiana, about ten miles south of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Dr. Wishard was born near 
                  Carlisle, Kentucky
               , January 17, 1813, and died in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1913. When he was twenty-two years old he began to study medicine under Dr. Benjamin
                    Noble of Greenwood, and two years later became a partner of Dr. Noble, and in the same year he
                    married Miss Harriet Newell Moreland. During the winter of 1845-46 he attended the 
                        Ohio
                     State Medical College at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and in 1849 was graduated from the LaPorte (Indiana) Medical College. In 1800 he was
                    again a student of the 
                        Ohio
                     Medical  College. Dr. Wishard tells of his
                    experiences during the Civil war in his paper, Some Personal Army Experiences. After his return from
                    the army, with the exception of four years as coroner of 
                        Marion county
                    , he devoted the rest of his life to his profession.
            The author, the doctor's daughter, has given a very loving and sympathetic account of his
                    life. The narrative is filled with stories which show character better than words. The many comments
                    and addresses included in the volume show the high esteem with which he was held by his fellow
                    citizens.
            The author included the memorial services. Doctor Wishard's historical addresses, papers
                    and other information is of more interest to the relatives and friends, for whom it is written, than
                    to the general public.
            The historical addresses are especially interesting because of the accounts of early Indiana times
                    and of the medical profession of those times.
            BLANCHE CAIN
         
         
            Among the interesting pamphlets issued to commemorate the hundredth anniversary of 
                        Indianapolis
                     are Centennial History of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , an outline history, by MAX R. HYMAN; Early 
                            Indianapolis
                        , by Mrs. LAURA FLETCHER HODGES; 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Centennial, published under the direction of the Historical Committee of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Centennial Celebration Committee, and Civic Studies of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , by IDA STEARNS STICKNEY.
            
               Early 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                is a sketch of the pioneer life of Indiana from 1820, when 
                        Indianapolis
                     was selected as the capital of the state, to 1823. The "Capital in the
                    Wilderness" was named by Samuel Merrill and the plot of the city was laid out by Alexander
                    Ralston. The circle was in the center, with radiating avenues and streets intersecting at right
                    angles. The writer very fittingly uses extracts from an old diary to give the early life of the
                    pioneers. Among the many interesting things mentioned in this diary are a description of the home
                    life of the people, a discussion as to who preached the first sermon, the celebration of a wedding
                    and an infare the next day, and a dance when the husband told the men to dance with their own wives,
                    or if they weren't so fortunate as to have a wife, "to dance with the
                    gals."
            
            
               Pioneer 
                            Indianapolis
                        , the first number of a proposed series of Civic Studies of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is arranged to aid pupils of the schools in their work in civics, geography and local
                    history. It is a description of 
                        Indianapolis
                     from the very beginning, when two white men, George Pogue and John McCormick, brought
                    their families to this great forest, with its various kinds of trees, among which darted the deer,
                    squirrels, wolves, etc., to the year 1847, when the first railway reached the community, connecting
                    it with the outside world, and when 
                        Indianapolis
                     entered the city stage of government. The author describes the friendship of the
                    Indians and the white man and the novel way in which the Indians were paid for the land which the
                    government bought from them. The author quotes from various sources, and in so doing pictures the
                    early life of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , such as the winter and summer of 1821-22, one long remembered. People were sick with
                    malaria because of the swampy land and were unable to cultivate and clear their land. The author
                    discusses the sale of lots after the town was surveyed and describes the moving of the state records
                    and treasury on four-horse wagons from Corydon, the former capital, to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the new capital. Then newspapers were published, societies were organized, streets
                    were laid out, education was started, and in those early years 
                        Indianapolis
                     laid the foundation for the splendid city which it is today.
            
               The 
                            Indianapolis
                         Centennial is an outline history and description of the capital of Indiana,
                    with illustrations from photographs which show the marked contrast between 
                        Indianapolis
                     when it was in its infancy and now, when it is a modern city. One of the striking
                    photographs is that of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     street looking north from 
                        Washington
                     street, 1856, and the same view today. The material is well selected and organized. The
                    author traces the development of 
                        Indianapolis
                     from the time when congress donated four sections of land to the state for its capital
                    to the present time. The moving of the capital from Corydon to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the pioneer life of the early settlers, who had to clear the land and protect
                    themselves against the boasts of the forests and the Indians; the early newspapers, the first
                    courthouse and  the jail, which was burnt down by a negro; first
                    schools and religious meetings, town government, which was organized in 1832; the beginning of
                    railroads, state buildings, participation in the Mexican and Civil wars, business development and
                    the city charter of 1890, which led to the rapid improvement of the city, are clearly outlined. The
                    second portion of the pamphlet outlines the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                     at present, such as the area and population of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the commercial and industrial equipment, public buildings, hospitals and charities,
                    educational advantages, buildings and organizations, park and boulevard systems, hotels, theatres,
                    amusements and literary landmarks, especially the home of James Whitcomb Riley.
            CATHERINE GLOCKNER
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Parke County
                         Indiana Centennial Memorial, by ISAAC R. STROUSE, auspices 
                        Rockville
                     Chautauqua Association, 1916, pp. 128.
            As stated by the author in the introduction, the purpose is to "collect scattered fragments
                    of Parke county, Indiana, historical lore, particularly that which has remained unwritten."
                    These "fragments" are grouped into thirty-eight sections. "Historical
                    sequence and continuity" were recognized as impossible, causing the memorial to be a series
                    of more or less disconnected accounts of historical events, activities and personalities. The
                    accounts abound in detail and give evidence of extensive knowledge and investigation.
            Some of the typical subjects are: 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , Camp and Battle, Early Churches (very detailed), Public Improvements, Development of
                    Industries, 
                        Parke County
                     Public Men, Base Ball, Turkey Run, Portraits and Sketches, Early Settlers, and 
                        Parke County
                     People.
            More than half the book trets of persons, both men and women, who have been influential in the
                    history of the county. The contribution of each toward the advancement of the county is emphasized.
                    On the cover is a representation of the "christening" of the county seat, 
                        Rockville
                    . Portraits of persons are numerous, as are pictures of prominent places and buildings.
            This book contains matter of value to any one interested  in
                    Indiana history, and is especially valuable to those interested in Parke county or Parke county
                    people.
            PAUL S. NASH
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Michigan
                         Historical Publications, University Series V. The 
                            Michigan
                         Fur Trade. By IDA AMANDA JOHNSON. The Pere Marquette Railroad
                        Company, an historical sketch of the growth and development of one of 
                        Michigan
                    's most important railway systems. By PAUL WESLEY IVEY, Ph. D., Lansing,
                    1919, pp. 461.
            This book, as the title suggests, is a comprehensive and detailed account of the early fur trade in 
                        Michigan
                    . The author has divided the periods into regimes: The French, British and American. The
                    French regime includes an account of early settlements and the work of the Jesuits among the
                    Indians. In the British regime the author compares and contrasts the occupations of the French and
                    British and the significance of the fur trade during the Revolutionary war. Following the British
                    occupation comes the American occupation. In this the author describes the ever-increasing friction
                    between British and Americans in fur trading. The book shows that the author has made a wide and
                    varied search for the material that is included in it, and by studying its contents a reader is made
                    familiar with one of the earliest and most bitterly contested pursuits of the early northwest. The
                    outline at the beginning of the book and the numerous footnotes throughout are very useful and
                    beneficial to a careful and critical reader.
            The author in some respects failed to show the historical connections between the various changes in
                    the central part of the territory, so that the ordinary reader has difficulty to grasp the cause and
                    significance of the transitions. In other respects the book is well written and is a valuable source
                    of information.
            EDGAR SWAIN
         
         
            
               Year Book of the State of Indiana for the Year 1919. Compiled and published
                    under the direction of James P. Goodrich, Governor, by the Legislative Reference Bureau, CHARLES
                    KETTLEBOROUGH, Director, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , 1920, pp. 1190.
            
            The "Year Book" is designed to be a manual of the Indiana state government. It
                    presents in a compact form the essential parts of the annual official reports of all the state
                    offices, boards, commissions, departments, bureaus and institutions, except the educational,
                    benevolent and correctional institutions, whose reports are issued separately.
            The first year book was published in 1918. It was published by the Legislative Reference Bureau,
                    under the direction of the governor. Each office, board, commission, bureau or department maintained
                    wholly or partly by the state funds is required to submit a report setting forth the duties,
                    functions, personnel, expenditures, income and extent of the achievements and activities during the
                    year. The remainder of the book is devoted to a discussion of local government, including counties,
                    townships and towns, together with such agricultural, economic, financial and social statistics as
                    seem to be of general importance.
            The book includes a message from the governor delivered to the General Assembly January 9, 1919. He
                    compliments Indiana upon her patriotic part in the World War. He discusses the constitutional
                    amendments that were passed by the legislature in 1919 and recommends that they be approved by the
                    General Assembly of 1921, and all pending proposals to amend the constitution be rejected. Also that
                    the office of attorney-general be made appointive by the governor, rather than elective, and that
                    the teachers' pension law be amended, a Fairbanks monument be erected in honor of
                    ex-Senator Fairbanks, and a memorial be given to James F. D. Lanier, who so willingly loaned the
                    state money for carrying on its part in the Civil war.
            The most interesting report was given by the department of conservation. The director of the
                    commission first gave the history of conservation of natural resources. The pioneer was destructive
                    before he was conservative. "He could not have been otherwise. He fought
                    civilization's battles that civilization may enjoy peace and prosperity."
            President Roosevelt declared conservation second in importance only to morality and urged the passage
                    of laws by the states and congress enforcing conservation. He said conservation "means the
                    utilization of those resources under  such regulation and
                    control as will prevent waste, extravagance and monopoly; but will at the same time, not merely
                    promote, but encourage such use and development as will serve the interests of the people
                    generally."
            ELIZABETH LARRABEE
         
         
            
               Smithsonian Institution Bureau of American Ethnology, Bulletin 70. Prehistoric Villages, Castles and Towers of Southwestern 
                            Colorado
                        . By J. WALTER FEWKES, 
                        Washington
                    , 1919, pp. 79+33 plates.
            The prehistoric ruins with which this work deals are located in southwestern 
                  Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona
                and 
                        Utah
                    , the domain of the Cliff-dwellers. The purpose of this article, as stated by the
                    author, is to apply the observations which he made on trips taken in 1917 and 1918 to this region to
                    the determination of the culture of the prehistoric period.
            Reference is made to the works of Jackson, Holmes, Morgan, Prudden, Nordenskiold and others in this
                    field. The ruins are classified in four groups, (1) villages or clusters of houses, (2)
                    cliff-houses, (3) towers and great houses, and (4) rooms. Following is a more or less minute
                    description of about sixty different ruins. The description is illustrated by many drawings to show
                    the location and ground plans of the ruins, and also by an appendix containing seventy-one
                    photographic views of the various ruins. Some space is given to the Grass Mesa, the cemetery, the
                    artificial reservoirs, the pictographs and the pottery and stone implements found in this region.
                    Finally, the author draws from the foregoing analysis conclusions as to the culture of the period.
            This article will be of greatest interest to those working in the field of American ethnology, as it
                    summarizes what has been done and shows that much remains to be done in the way of excavation and
                    reconstruction of the ruins.
            WELTHY AGATHA SHIVELY
         
         
            
               Bureau of American Ethnology, Bulletin 60. Handbook of Aboriginal
                        American Antiquities, Part I. Introductory. The Lithnic Industries. By W.
                    H. HOLMES, ethnologist in charge. 
                        Washington
                    , 1919, pp. 380.
            This book forms one of the series of handbooks of the  Bureau of
                    American Ethnology, completed by M. Holmes while chief of the bureau. It is written not so much as a
                    formal presentation of the subject as for reference, and presents the antiquities of the continent
                    so as to make them available to the student who is interested in the evolution of culture among men.
            In the evolution of civilization too little care is given as a rule to prehistoric culture. Although
                    the task is difficult and presents many complex problems, due primarily to general misunderstanding,
                    misinterpreted data and lack of concrete knowledge, the author has given his best efforts, the
                    valuable work of a lifetime spent almost entirely in study and research upon this subject. It is one
                    of the best brief works available upon the subject. In tracing race origin the author relies upon
                    living people, grave remains, art and industries of the aborigines and traditions.
            Man is traced back to the quaternary period of the glacial epoch in America, but there is no
                    conclusive proof of man's existence in America before that time. The beginnings are
                    probably found in Asia. The logical way of coming to America seems to have been by the Bering
                    strait. This progress was the result of a gradual migration in the face of great dangers, but
                    analogies tend to show that man readily adapted himself to each new environment. The effects of this
                    migration were many new activities, such as the study of metallurgy, building, art, etc., and upon
                    this range of culture depends the whole aboriginal advance from savagery to civilization. All this
                    data depends largely upon chronology which has been determined back to 100 B. C.
            The culture areas of the continent number some twentytwo, influenced largely by climate and
                    geographical conditions. The subject matter of archaeological research is classified according to
                    the methods of treating material, the tools employed being derived from animal, vegetable and
                    mineral kingdoms. A great deal of space is given to the method of acquiring minerals and to the
                    history and location of various mines.
            The task of the author is complex and covers a large field, open almost to unlimited research, but
                    the analysis is very suggestive. Those who desire a thrilling story will be disappointed,  although the work as a whole is interesting. There are parts,
                    however, that might be made less technical; too much space might be said to be devoted to the
                    acquirement and utilization of material and not enough relation shown between the various culture
                    areas.
            M. J. LONSDON
         
         
            
               Thirty-third Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology to the Secretary of
                        the Smithsonian Institution, 1911-1912. By F. W. HODGE, ethonologist in charge, 
                        Washington
                    , 1919, pp. 677.
            The book is divided into six parts: The Administrative Report; Uses of Plants by the Indians of the
                        Missouri River Region, by Dr. Melvin Randolph Gilmore; Preliminary Account
                    of the Antiquities of the Region Between the Manchos and La Plata Rivers in Southwestern 
                        Colorado
                    , by Earl H. Morris; Designs in Hopi Pottery, by Jessi Walker Fewkis; The Hawaiian
                    Romance of Laieikawai, with introduction and translation by Martha 
                        Warren
                     Beckwith; and appendix containing abstracts from Hawaiian stories collected by Forander
                    and edited by Thomas G. Thrum of the Bishop museum, Honolulu.
            The first forty pages are taken up with the administrative report, giving the results of ethnological
                    researches among American Indians and the natives of 
                        Hawaii
                    , under the direction of the Smithsonian Institution. It also includes reports on other
                    phases of the work of the bureau.
            One of the most interesting parts of the book is the paper by Dr. Gilmore. He shows a knowledge of
                    the folklore, ritual, ceremony, custom, song, story and philosophy of the Indians which makes the
                    taxonomic list of plants, which covers seventy-seven pages, far from being a recital of dry,
                    uninteresting facts such as one might expect from the treatment of a technical subject. Preceding
                    the list of plants are three well written articles on Ethnic Botany, Influence of Flora on Human
                    Activities and Culture, and Influence of Human Population on Flora, with especial reference to the
                    bearing the subjects have on Indian life. In the second paper, by Earl Morris, the minor antiquities
                    that are pictured together with his interesting description gives the reader a good picture  of the manners and customs of these ancient Indians. The third
                    paper furnishes a good key to the interpretation of the decoration of ancient Hopi earthenware. The
                    Hawaiian Romance of Laieikawai has 345 pages given to it. The story, which is given both in English
                    and the Hawaiian languages, is preceded by an introduction giving information concerning the author
                    of the story, as well as facts concerning the prose and poetry of the Polynesian groups. Each of the
                    papers given is followed by a bibliography which would be very helpful to the student of these
                    subjects. As to type, paper, binding and illustration, the work is very pleasing. The book is
                    attractive and readable not only for the student of ethnology, but the general reader as well.
            MARY M. MANRING
         
         
            
               Bulletin Seventy-one of the Bureau of American Ethnology. Native Cemeteries and Forms
                        of Burial East of the 
                            Mississippi
                        . By DAVID I. BUSHNELL JR., 
                        Washington
                    , 1920, pp. 160.
            This book consists of 148 pages of fascinating reading, with an excellent bibliography and some most
                    interesting photographs and illustrations of excavated cemeteries and ossuaries. The author has
                    given an accurate and detailed account of the burial customs of the Indians which in former times
                    inhabited the vast territory extending from the Atlantic to the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Only the ancient mounds and remains of the dead are now left of the native tribes,
                    and, considering the great change which has occurred, it is interesting to study this remaining
                    evidence.
            Although seldom did one tribe follow a single method of disposing of their dead to the exclusion of
                    all others, every tribe appears to have had some characteristic form of burial. The tribes are dealt
                    with separately in the description of the forms of burial, and it appears that the same tribes had
                    different customs, as they were scattered in various parts of the country. For example, the author
                    states that the Algonquians of New 
                        England
                     deposited their dead in pits, while those tribes farther west followed a form of
                    scaffold burial.
            The book is completed by an adequate conclusion which sums up the author's statements and
                    gives a brief resume of the field covered. The work represents a great amount of  labor, for it was necessary, when attempting to recount the entire
                    procedure of each burial, to quote from several narratives, and then a vast number of records left
                    by early missionaries and explorers were utilized.
            ELINOR K. FORD
         
         
            
               Petroleum and Natural Gas in Indiana. By W. N. LOGAN, State Geologist, Published
                    by the Department of Conservation, State of Indiana, Division of Geology, 1920, pp. 279.
            This is a technical handbook of the oil and gas industries, so far as they are affected by the
                    science of geology. There is no attempt to advertise the resources of the state beyond what is shown
                    in a scientific study of its geology. On the other hand, it is hoped that such a report will tend to
                    restrain the drilling of wells where geological conditions warrant no hope of success. It is
                    doubtful if enough money has been made in the oil and gas industry to pay for drilling the wells.
                    Chapter one is a caution to the "wild cat" prospectors who rouse excitement in a
                    community, raise ten to twenty thousand dollars, waste it in drilling a dry hole and pass on to
                    grill another community. There follows a discussion of the properties and origin of gas and
                    petroleum. Chapters follow on the geologic structures favorable to gas and oil and the best methods
                    of prospecting. The body of the report is taken up with a description of structure and the
                    development of the industry in each county. Records of one or more wells are given for each county,
                    showing depth of each stratum. Sixty-three maps and diagrams, including five folding maps,
                    illustrate the report.
         
         
            
               A Short History of the Great War Dealing Particularly With Its Military and
                        Diplomatic Aspects, and the Part Played in it by the 
                            United States
                        , by WILLIAM L. MCPHERSON, Military Critic of the 
                        New York
                     Tribune. G. P. Putnam's Sons, 
                        New York
                    , 1920, pp. 410.
            Anyone wishing to secure a readable history of the military operations of the great war, probably
                    cannot do better than to read this short history. It is not a book setting forth the stratagems of
                    the war, but rather one setting forth a fairly "clear and accurate running account of the
                    war's origin and progress." The chronological form of treatment has been  more or less closely followed, and while the work cannot be
                    considered valuable as a prolonged narrative; as an epigrammatic "outline story"
                    of the war it deserves credit.
            Whether this history or any of its contemporaries will remain important as historical statements
                    after four or five years have passed, cannot as yet be foretold. Not only will our judgment as to
                    many important factors be changed by growing viewpoints concerning the Balkan situation, economic
                    phases, et cetera, but there will be revelations, both official and personal, that will modify many
                    statements made immediately following the war's close; for instance, the change of
                    administration either in 
                        England
                     or the 
                        United States
                     would perhaps clarify our vision of the underlying causes both for the beginning and
                    end of the conflict.
            There are many matters which are omitted, or mentioned with very little reference-no doubt
                    intentionally-which seem to me to be of great significance in regard to the diplomatic phase of the
                    war, such as the Zimmerman note to Mexico, exit of Dr. Dumba, and the real story of peace
                    negotiations conducted in 
                        Switzerland
                     in 1917-18.
            This short history relating chiefly to the military facts of the world war contains forty-two rather
                    concise chapters each of which deals with some significant phase. While those phases which are
                    discussed are ably handled, and while some are by their very nature excluded, others such as the
                    diplomatic phases seem to be greatly underestimated.
            The least complete part of the history is that which tells of America's participation in
                    the struggle. Only ten pages are devoted to the actual participation, three of which are given over
                    to a complete statement of President Wilson's Fourteen Points. Possibly it was very well
                    that the author chose to speak but briefly of the part played by the 
                        United States
                    , for a fuller expression of America's part could have been given only at the
                    risk of seeming partisan. That he kept close to his idea of a "running account" is
                    to be greatly commended.
            Up to this time there is probably no other history of this kind which will give to the reader a more
                    comprehensive view of the military tactics and operations, and their natural linking together.
                    Although the results which this book accomplishes  in the way of
                    new light are negligible, yet as regards the interlacement and significance of military and
                    diplomatic affairs and their final outcome it can be recommended.
            JAMES L. GOFF
         
         
            
               The Old Northwest, by FREDERICK AUSTIN OGG, Professor of Political Science at
                    the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Vol. 19 of the Chronicles of America Series, edited by Allen Johnson, 
                        New Haven
                    : Yale University Press, 1919.)
            This volume of Mr. Ogg's presents a most interesting account of the general history of the
                    Northwest covering the period from 1760, the fall of Montreal, to 1849, when 
                        Minnesota
                    , the last of five commonwealths, was given territorial organization.
            The difficulties that beset the early settlers in their control of the Ohio
                    valley and beyond are graphically portrayed. Especially vivid is the full account of the
                    early relations of white men and red men, to which fully one-half of the book is devoted. The entire
                    book reflects the life and spirit of the people. Chapter seven is especially rich with this
                    information. Not only does Mr. Ogg give us here an intimate acquaintance with their mode of living
                    and thinking, but we can readily appreciate the dangers and anxiety with which life on the frontiers
                    are filled. An excellent account is given of the migration to the west which even the wretched
                    facilities of transportation could not restrict. Emphasis is placed on the consequent great
                    divergencies which grew up among the settlers. And, says Ogg, "Nowhere else was the road
                    for talent so wide open, entirely irrespective of inheritance, possessions, education, environment.
                    Nowhere outside of the trans-Alleghany country would the rise of a Lincoln have been
                    possible."
            The narration is lucid, vivid, and interesting. The progress of the Old Northwest in losing its
                    frontier character-first the 
                        Ohio
                     country and later the upper 
                        Mississippi
                     country-and the ultimate attainment of statehood is the theme of the book. The work is
                    admirably done.
            BLANCHE ROSENTHAL
         
         
         
            
               Collections of the 
                            Minnesota
                         Historical Society, Volume XVII. 
                  
                            Minnesota
                         Geographic Names, Their Origin and Significance. By WARREN UPHAM,
                    Archaeologist of the Society, Saint Paul, 1920, pp. VIII+735.
            In the preface of the volume Mr. Upham discusses at some length the sources of his information and
                    throughout the book additional information is given as to these sources. The first main division of
                    the volume entitled "General Features" deals with the origin of the name 
                        Minnesota
                     and other outstanding physical features such as lakes and rivers. In regard to the
                    origin of the name "
                        Minnesota
                    " as first applied to the river, the author says, "An illustration of
                    the meaning of the words was told to the present writer by Mrs. Moses N. Adams, the widow of the
                    well known missionary of the Dakotas. She stated that at various times the Dakota women explained it
                    to her by dropping a little milk into the water and calling the whitishly clouded water Minne
                    Sota."
            Following the general features are divisions dealing with the counties alphabetically arranged and
                    following each brief sketch of the origin of the name of the county is an alphabetical list of the
                    names of its townships and villages with their origins. The volume closes with three interesting
                    chapters dealing with the three cities of 
                  Minneapolis, St. Paul
                and 
                        Duluth
                    , respectively.
            The volume shows the result of much travel, inquiry and investigation.
            HARRY A. CONDON
         
         
            
               Lake Maxinkuckee: A Physical and Biological Survey. Vols. 1 and 2, large octavo,
                    1172 pages, 38 colored plates, 15 halftones, 23 text-figures and one map. By WARREN EVERMANN and
                    HOWARD WALTON CLARK, Department of Conservation, State of Indiana, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 1920; $3.50 in Indiana, $5.25 without the state.
            In the summer of 1899, Dr. Evermann, with several specialists, began a physical and biological survey
                    of Lake Maxinkuckee.
            Lake Maxinkuckee was selected chiefly because the physical and biological conditions were so bunched
                    as to enable the studies to be carried on with economy of time and effort. Field work was begun in
                    July, 1899 and continued for longer  or shorter periods every
                    year until November, 1913. From July 1, 1900, to July 11, 1901, the observations were carried on
                    daily.
            A physical survey of the lake and its catchment basin was made, so that the topography of the lake
                    bottom as well as that of the surrounding country was definitely determined. More than 2,000
                    soundings were made, and the depths indicated by contour lines on the map which accompanies the
                    report.
            More than 20,000 temperature observations were recorded, and chapters are devoted to the temperature
                    of the air and the water, also to winds, rain, frost, fog, dew, snow, and ice. It was found that, in
                    the late summer and early fall, there is no absorbed oxygen in the water of the lake below a depth
                    of 45 feet. This absence of oxygen disappears, however, some time in the fall when the lake
                    "turns over," or when the fall storms disturb the lake, causing a mixing of the
                    water of the various depths. This, of course, means that deep-water fishes such as whitefish and
                    lake trout can not live in Lake Maxinkuckee.
            Very naturally, most attention was given to the biology of the lake. Both the fauna and the flora of
                    the lake are very rich in species. There are in and about the lake more than 130 species of
                    mollusks, and 37 species of reptiles and amphibians. There are in the lake 64 species of fishes.
            Much attention was given to the habits of the fishes, particularly those of interest to the angler,
                    of which there are more than a dozen important species. The abundance and habits of each and the
                    various methods of capture, seasons, baits and lures are fully presented. Over 200 pages of text are
                    devoted to the fishes. There are 36 excellent colored plates of fishes, also nine halftones and 23
                    text-figures.
            The flora of the region is equally rich and 400 pages of the monograph are devoted to it. The total
                    number of species is 838, of which more than 50 are aquatics. The two volumes of this monograph make
                    an excellent appearance. A good quality of paper has been used and the type in which the text is set
                    makes the page easy to read. The colored plates and halftones are unusually fine.
         
         
         
            
               Official Bulletin of the Indiana State Fire Marshal, Sept., 1920. By H. H.
                    FRIEDLEY, State Fire Marshal.
            In this pamphlet the marshal describes and illustrates various conditions which lead to destruction
                    by fire. Among those mentioned are dishonest insurance, the wooden shingle roof, defective flues and
                    stovepipes, inflammable liquids, the garage rubbish, careless smokers, et cetera.
         
         
            
               The Indiana Child Welfare Association. By EDNA HATFIELD EDMONDSON, Field
                    Secretary, Indiana University Extension Bulletin, Vol. V, No. 5.
            This pamphlet of 86 pages is a history and explanation of the movement to give more definite and
                    intelligent attention to the growth and development of the children of the state. A wide
                    organization has been perfected including a chairman in every county in the state save thirteen. A
                    state committee has charge. Its activities extend to every field and phase of child life.
         
         
            
               Tenth Annual Report of the Southwestern Hospital for the Insane. Cragmont near 
                        Madison
                    , year ending September 30, 1919. By DR. JMAES W. MlLLIGAN, Supt.
            The report shows a property investment by the state of $1,741,296; average enrollment for
                    year, 1,164-609 men and 555 women. The report shows a decrease in attendance of 12. The total
                    expenditures for the year were $252,657.
         
         
            
               Thirteenth Annual Report of the Eastern Hospital for the Insane, at Easthaven,
                    near 
                        Richmond
                    ; year ending September 30, 1919. By DR. SAMUEL E. SMITH, Supt.
            This institution has an investment value of $1,173,319. There were 911 patients remaining,
                    September 30, 1919, showing an increase of 11. The per capita cost of each inmate for the year was
                    $256.44.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Michigan
                         Military Records: The D. A. R. of 
                            Michigan
                         Historical Collections. By SUE IMOGENE SILLIMAN, State Historian of the D. A.
                    R. Bulletin No. 12, 
                        Michigan
                     Historical Commission, 1920, pp. 244.
            The contents of this Bulletin are divided into four parts:  (1)
                    Revolutionary soldiers buried in 
                        Michigan
                    , (2) Pensioners of Territorial 
                        Michigan
                    , 1830, (3) 
                        Michigan
                     Medal of Honor men, 1814-1918, (4) General Pershing's Tribute to soldiers of
                    U. S. in 
                        France
                    .
         
         
            
               History of the Twenty-First Field Artillery From June 1, 1917, to February 22, 1919. By KENYON STEVENSON, Second Lieutenant, 21st F. A. Printed in
                    Luxenbourg, pp. 40.
            This pamphlet is divided into five chapters, dealing with organization and home training, Valdohon
                    and St. Die, the St. Mihiel drive, holding the St. Mihiel sector, and since the armistice. This is a
                    brief story of one battery, interesting as all such close up stories are. The author was official
                    historian later of the Fifth division and his manuscript history of that division is one of the best
                    real histories of the war I have read.
         
         
            THE Annals of 
                            Iowa
                        , after a rest from October, 1915, to April, 1920, contains in its July number
                    two treaties with the Sac and Fox Indians, 1841, 1842; also an autobiography of John A. Kasson, one
                    of the best known public men of 
                        Iowa
                    .
         
         
            
               The 
                            Dubois County
                         Settlement Stone. By GEO R. WILSON. 1919; pp. 47.
            December 31, 1919, George R. Wilson presented to the commissioners of Dubois county a stone marker
                    for the place of the first settlement in Dubois county. The first settler's name was
                    William McDonald. He settled in 1801 near where the Yellowbank trail from Owensboro crosses the 
                        Vincennes
                     or "Buffalo" trail from 
                        Louisville
                    . The vicinity was wellknown to pioneer Indiana as the "Mudholes"-once
                    a great buffalo wallow. The little booklet contains many valuable biographical notices of local
                    men-G. W. Johnson, Geo. H. Proffit, Touissant Dubois, W. E. Niblack and others
         
         
            
               The 
                            Missouri
                         Historical Review for 1920.
            The April-July (1920) number gives half its space to the History of Woman's Suffrage in 
                        Missouri
                    . This is the first complete history of woman's suffrage in an American
                    commonwealth and 
                        Missouri
                     should be proud to have the  honor. Its success is
                    largely due to its excellent leaders, who, in the darkest hours, did not give up hope. The whole
                    number contains points of unusual interest, especially Dr. Bek's article, The Followers
                    of Duden.
            The October issue is the centennial number. Such men as Walter B. Stevens, Jonas Viles, W. V. Byars
                    and Edward J. White have contributed articles. Starting with "The Travail of 
                        Missouri
                     for Statehood" we are given a hundred years of commonwealth history. The
                    articles include social, economic and historical changes that have taken place. A new historical
                    spirit is being roused over the state by the Historical Review
            
            HELEN GILBERT
         
         
            THE 
                  
                            United States
                         Marine Corps in the World War is a 100 page pamphlet by Maj. Edwin N.
                    McClellan, officer in charge of historical division. It is a brief summary of the organization and
                    operations of this famous body of troops. Published by the government, 1920.
            THE April and June numbers of the 
                  
                            Tennessee
                         Historical Magazine contain a valuable journal of a trip down the Cumberland, 
                        Ohio
                     and Mississippi rivers in 1807.
            The 
                  
                            Minnesota
                         History Bulletin for March contains an address by Carl R. Fish on American
                    Democracy and a description by Louis H. Roddes of the last Indian uprising in the 
                        United States
                    .
            THE 
                  
                            Iowa
                         Journal of History and Politics, April, contains an article by George F.
                    Robison on special municipal charities in 
                        Iowa
                    , 1836-1859; a historical review of northwestern 
                        Iowa
                     in 1855, by J. L. Ingalsbe, but more interesting to Indianians is a discussion of the
                    old question of the conduct of Gen. Lew Wallace at 
                        Shiloh
                    , by Joseph W. Rich.
            THE Sulgrave Review-Bulletin No. 3. Sulgrave is an international society-organized
                    to promote good will among the English speaking nations of the world. This is being done by
                    celebrating events of English-wide importance, such just now as the tercentenary of the landing of
                    the Pilgrims,  establishing international scholarships in
                    British and American universities, and a score of other similar ways. The home of the society is
                    Sulgrave Manor, Northamptonshire, 
                        England
                    , ancestral home of 
                        Washington
                    .
            The January 
                  
                            Michigan
                         History Magazine has an account of Fort Gratiot and its builder, by William L.
                    Jenks; the Treaty of Saginaw, 1819, by Fred Dustin; Rise and Progress of Hope College, by Dr. Ame
                    Vennema, and an article by Leigh Cooper on early French influence in 
                        Detroit
                    . The number contains 304 pages. Considering it is just starting on its fifth volume its
                    size indicates a robust health.
            THE Catholic Historical Review has an account by Rev. V. F. O'Daniel of
                    the early Dominican missionaries in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Indiana was once a part of the same diocese as 
                        Kentucky
                     and such a contribution as this on the lives of Badin and Nerinckx is full of interest.
                    A number of letters are printed, those by the Belgian Nerinckx in Latin. The July Review contains a biography of John Baptist Purcell, who succeeded Fenwick, the second
                    bishop of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , September 26, 1832.
            The principal article in the July Western 
                            Pennsylvania
                         Historical Magazine is on the life and service of Colonel Henry Boquet, by
                    Edward E. Robbins. The Moravian missions of the Ohio valley, by Charles W.
                    Dahlinger is the leading article in the April number.
            THE Essex Institution Historical Collections for April, 1920, has for its chief
                    attraction a beautifully illustrated history of Steam Navigation in New 
                        England
                    , by Francis B. C. Bradlee. The story continues through the July and October numbers.
            THE Journal of History for July is largely occupied by the proceedings of the
                    general conference of the Church of the Latter Day Saints. The April number contains an
                    autobiography of Henry A. Stebbins, Memoir of John Shield, and a local history of Pottawattomie
                    district.
         
         
         
            
               The Conquest of the Old Southwest. By ARCHIBALD HENDERSON, Ph.D., D.C.L., 
                        New York
                    , the Century Co. 1920.
            This book is a production of that ripe, southern scholar, Archibald Henderson.
            The printing, index, notes and bibliographical notes are all that could be desired. The book contains
                    sixteen full-page illustrations and a useful map.
            "The Old Southwest" is a term applied to western 
                        Virginia
                    , the Carolinas, 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    , and the period covered by the work is the period of settlement, 1740-1790. This book
                    might be studied with profit as a continuation of the subject discussed by D. Frederick J. Turner in
                    "The Old West."
            Mr. Henderson's treatment of this highly romantic and thrilling period of American history
                    is skillful and sympathetic. He shows how land hunger and wanderlust, or acquisition and
                    inquisition, have been the motives back of our remarkable western expansion. The part played by the
                    variour racial elements, especially the Scotch-Irish, in developing "The Old
                    Southwest", in creating the distinctive American character, is forcefully portrayed. The
                    pioneers, Daniel 
                        Boone
                    , John Sevier and the land companies that helped to colonize this region are treated
                    with much understanding and appreciation of their real value and contributions.
            This book is of special value because it recognizes the important part that the south and west have
                    played in the development of the distinctive American character and democracy. This element in our
                    national history has been too often neglected. The hunters, traders and farmers of the west and
                    south, shut off from rapid, easy communication with the outside world developed a society quite
                    different from that of their European ancestors and even that of the Atlantic coastal plain.
                    American daring, boldness of conception, buoyancy of spirit, ready initiative and democracy
                    experienced its greatest growth and evolution on the frontier. All of which the author truthfully
                    shows.
            For the general reader or historical student who is seeking a readable, historically accurate account
                    of the pioneer movement into western 
                        Virginia
                    , the Carolinas, 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    
                     and the contributions of these pioneers to our national life
                    this book is of great value.
            RUTH STEVENS
         
         
            
               OHIO VALLEY HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION
            THE Annual Meeting of the Ohio Valley Historical Association was held in
                            
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , October 15 and 16. The Friday evening and Saturday morning
                    meetings were joint sessions with the 
                        Ohio
                     History Teachers' Association.
            Among the interesting papers read was one by Prof. H. C. Hockett, 
                        Ohio
                     State university, on "The Extinction of the Indian Title in 
                        Ohio
                     beyond the Greenville Line" and another by Prof. E. A. Miller of Oberlin
                    college on "New 
                        England
                     Influence on 
                        Ohio
                    's Public School System."
            Saturday morning two papers by Mr. S. H. Ziegler, Director of Civics and History in the 
                        Cleveland
                     high schools, on "Some Phases of History Teaching in the 
                        Cleveland
                     high schools" and another by a Mr. Edward S. Dowell of Bucyrus high school on
                    "The Method of History Instruction used in the Bucyrus High School" called forth
                    lively discussion and questioning.
            A joint luncheon session was held at noon at the Chittendon hotel. Pres. K. S. Latourette of the
                    History Teachers' Association outlined some interestnig historical work waiting to be
                    done, in his paper "The Future of the Ohio Valley Historical
                    Association."
            Professor Siebert has a plan of getting more men interested in this work and has secured about
                    $200 for the work of the association.
            The publication of the report of the 
                        Berea
                     meeting has been delayed longer that it should have been owing to the lack of money in
                    the treasury. But it is hoped there will soon be enough to publish this report and also some of the
                    papers read at 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and 
                        Columbus
                    .
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
