
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 68, Issue 4, pages 283-368. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:68+issue:4+year:1972&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
      
         
         
            The New Western Colony Schemes:
            A Preview of the 
                        United States
                     Territorial System
            
                    Chad J. Wozniak
                    *
                
            The history of the 
                        United States
                     territorial system properly begins several decades before the American Revolution. Many
                    of the ideas ultimately incorporated into the American territorial system first found expression, in
                    one form or another, some time during the half century or so before 1775. In this period
                    developments took place illustrative as antecedents of the Northwest Ordinance of 1787, which
                    created the 
                        United States
                     territorial system, and of the companion Land Ordinance of 1785, which established the
                    characteristic American rectangular land survey system. These antecedents were encompassed in the
                    plans for settlement west of the Appalachians in colonial times and in the schemes for new British
                    colonies in the interior of North America. While none of the new colony schemes was ever realized,
                    their sponsors put forth some of the initial suggestions of elements in the later plan of the
                    territorial system. Their ideas and plans were known and carefully evaluated by the Continental
                    Congress during and after the Revolution.1 Since they represented the first
                    proposed departure from the old pattern of expansion westward by the original colonies2 and the first indigenously American deliberations upon new colonization, the new colony
                    ventures merit consideration as a phase of the ideological growth and shaping of the territorial
                    system and of America constitutionalism. Upon examination, the proposals and schemes for new western
                    settlement in the late colonial period exhibit many tendencies and philosophies later expressed
                    again in the Ordinances of 1785 and 1787.
            
               
                  *
                        
                            Chad
                         J. Wozniak is assistant professor of history, University of 
                            Wisconsin
                        — Parkside, Kenosha.
               
                  1 In the Papers of the Continental Congress (National Archives, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.), are numerous memorials and other documents relating to the various new
                        colony proposals. See, for example, those relating to the Vandalia colony project, the best
                        known and most nearly successful, ibid., Item 41, X, 500ft
               
                  2 For the purposes of this essay, two kinds of westward expansion in
                        colonial America may be noted: peripheral expansion into unoccupied areas by the existing
                        colonies without central direction from the imperial authorities; and unitary expansion, under
                        such central direction, through the creation of new colonies. Peripheral expansion was the only
                        kind actually undertaken in the period considered here, but the proposals for new western
                        colonies anticipated a system of unitary expansion such as was later provided in the territorial
                        scheme of the Northwest Ordinance of 1787. One of the factors favoring unitary expansion was the
                        distance of the newly annexed parts of the existing colonies from their centers of government
                        and commerce. Another was their isolation either across natural barriers, such as the
                        Appalachians, or the intervening territory of another colony, as in the case of the 
                            Wyoming
                         Valley and 
                            Connecticut
                         (see pp. 289–90).
            
            
            
               Map prepared by 
                            Chad
                         J. Wozniak.
            
            
            The proposals for new western colonies originated with the accelerated growth of English America in
                    the decades immediately preceding the French and Indian War (1754–1760). During this time
                    almost all of the lands east of the Appalachian divide were either settled or owned by speculators.
                    The Indian traders’ frontier also advanced so far that by the middle of the 1740s it had
                    penetrated into the older sphere of French interest in the Ohio Valley. The result was increased
                    concern on the part of both the British and the French for their claims to the trans-Allegheny
                    region, which not only precipitated the showdown of 1754–1763, but stirred the English
                    colonists to plan for the future of their claimed western realm.3
            
            The first steps toward an actual Anglo-American occupation of the transmontane district were taken by
                    Virginians. As early as 1716 Governor Alexander Spotswood led an expedition across the Alleghenies,
                    and two years later he suggested to the British ministry the establishment of permanent settlements
                    in the Great Lakes area.4 While no immediate action followed upon
                    Spotswood's proposals, the colonies’ interest in the western country was already
                    receiving recognition.5
            
            
               
                  3 This article deals only with the development and significance of the
                        idea of new western colonies in relation to ideas embraced in the territorial system as
                        established by the Northwest Ordinance of 1787. No attempt is made here to detail in full the
                        history of all the many colonial land companies and speculatioas. For that purpose, the reader
                        should refer to the following standard works: Thomas P. Abernethy, Western Lands
                            and the American Revolution (
                            New York
                        , 1937); Shaw Livermore, Early American Land Companies (
                            New York
                        , 1939); Kenneth P. Bailey, The Ohio Company of 
                                Virginia
                            
                   (
                            Glendale
                        , Calif., 1939) and Alfred P. James, The Ohio Company (
                            Pittsburgh
                        , 1959); George E. Lewis, The Indiana Company,
                        1768–1798 (
                            Glendale
                        , Calif., 1941); Clarence E. Carter, Great Britain and the Illinois
                            Country, 1763–1774 (
                            Washington
                        , 1910); the introductions to each volume of Julian P. Boyd, ed., The
                            Susguehannah Company Papers (4 vols., 
                            Ithaca
                        , N. Y., 1962); Albert T. Volwiler, George Croghan and the Westward
                            Movement (
                            Cleveland
                        , 1926) and Nicholas B. Wainwright, George Croghan, Wilderness
                        Diplomat (
                            Chapel Hill
                        , N. C., 1959); and William S. Lester, The Transylvania Colony (
                            Spencer
                        , Ind., 1935). Similarly, the purpose here is to examine thoughts of colonial
                        Americans on western policy. For thorough coverage of British western policy see Clarence W.
                        Alvord, The Mississippi Valley in British Politics (2 vols., 
                            Cleveland
                        , 1917), some of whose findings are disputed, however, in Jack M. Sosin, Whitehall in the Wilderness (
                            Lincoln
                        , Neb., 1961). Separatist movements among the western settlers, both before and
                        after the Revolution, are discussed in Frederick 
                            Jackson
                         Turner, "Western State-Making in the Revolutionary Era," American Historical Review, I (October, 1895; January, 1896),
                        70–87, 251–69. The general affairs of the colonies are well documented in
                        Lawrence H. Gipson, The British Empire Before the American Revolution (14
                        vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1936–1968). George H. Alden, New Governments West of the
                            Alleghenies before 1780 (
                            Madison
                        , Wis., 1897), covers much of the same ground as this article but has overlooked
                        important materials and fails to relate adequately the new colony ideas to the future 
                            United States
                         territorial system.
               
                  4 Governor Spotswood to the Lords of Trade, August 14, 1718, in R. A.
                        Brock, ed., The Official Letters of Alexander Spotswood, Lieutenant-Governor of 
                                Virginia
                            
                   (2 vols., 
                            Richmond
                        , Va., 1888), II, 286–98. Spotswood reported that "The Chief Aim
                        of my Expedition over the Great Mountains in 1716, was to satisfye my Self whether it was
                        practicable to come at the Lakes." Ibid., 295. For additional details
                        of Spotswood's expedition see Richard L. Morton, Colonial 
                                Virginia
                            
                   (2 vols., 
                            Chapel Hill
                        , N.C., 1960), II, 446–51.
               
                  5 Spotswood to the Lords of Trade, August 14, 1718, Brock, Letters of Spotswood,
            
            
            Twenty years later, however, 
                        Virginia
                    's burgeoning population and speculative interests incited her to further
                    action. In 1738 her legislature boldly proclaimed that the newly organized frontier county of
                    Augusta extended "to the utmost limits of 
                        Virginia
                    ," meaning the enormous bounds designated by her early charters.6 During the following decade Virginia began to grant lands amidst and beyond the
                    mountains. By the 1744 Treaty of 
                  Lancaster, Pennsylvania
               ,7 to which
                    Virginians were parties, the Six Nations Iroquois vacated their claims to lands south of the
                        Ohio River. This treaty stimulated a sudden new interest in western lands,
                    and 1745 the Virginia council made four large grants.8 In November, 1747, John
                    Hanbury and several others, including Thomas and Richard Henry Lee, George 
                        Mason
                    , and Lawrence and Augustine 
                        Washington
                    , petitioned the council for a grant of 200,000 acres near the forks of the
                        Ohio River.9 These petitioners, along with Governor
                    Robert Dinwiddie and some others, formally incorporated as the Ohio Company of Virginia in 1751,
                    having received a royal charter and royal confirmation of their grant two years earlier.10 This company was the first venture to undertake the actual occupation of
                    trans-Allegheny territories. While the principal interest of the company lay in the Indian trade,
                    the company also planned to settle a hundred families upon its land-holdings 
                   II, 295–97. See also Bailey, Ohio Company of 
                                    Virginia
                                
                     , 22, which, however, makes the erroneous statement that
                            Spotswood's plans "merely pushed the Virginia frontier farther toward the
                            Alleghenies." As his letter shows, Spotswood had much more to offer than that. See
                            page 287 for the full scope of Spotswood's ideas and suggestions.
                  
                     6 Act organizing Augusta and Orange counties, November, 1738, in
                            William Waller Hening, ed., The Statutes at Large: Being a Collection of All
                                the Laws of 
                                    Virginia
                                
                      (13 vols., 
                                Richmond
                            , Va., 1814–1823), V, 78–80.
                  
                     7 The treaty of 
                                Lancaster
                             is in the Minutes of the Provincial Council of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                
                      (8 vols., 
                                Harrisburg
                            , Pa., 1851), IV, 698–737. Representatives from Virginia present for
                            the making of the treaty included Thomas Lee, a future member of the Ohio Company of 
                                Virginia
                            . See the documents cited in notes 9 and 10.
                  
                     8 Record of Virginia land grants, George Croghan Papers (Cadwallader
                            Collection, Pennsylvania Historical Society, 
                                Harrisburg
                            ), Box 4. James Patton to John Blair, January, 1753, Draper Collection
                            (Wisconsin Historical Society, 
                                Madison
                            ), 1QQ: 175–76. Patton, a trader, and John Robinson, president of the
                            Virginia council, received two of these grants, each for 100,000 acres and located on the
                            Holston and Greenbrier rivers, respectively.
                  
                     9 Petition of John Hanbury, et al., to the Crown,
                            1748, in pp. 2–3 of the "Case of the Ohio Company," 1774,
                            pamphlet facsimile printed in Lois Mulkearn, ed., George Mercer Papers (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1954), 329–92; Ohio Company petition to Governor Robert Dinwiddie,
                            November 6, 1752, ibid., pamphlet, 7–8; petition of a committee
                            of the Ohio Company to King George III, September, 1761, ibid., pamphlet,
                            25–26; memorial of George Mercer to the king, 1765, ibid.,
                            pamphlet, 32–33. According to Mulkearn the original petition to the Virginia
                            council of November 10, 1747, has been lost. For full accounts of the organization of the
                            Ohio Company, see Bailey, Ohio Company of 
                                    Virginia
                                
                     , 24–31, 35–60, and James, Ohio
                                Company, 9–59.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid.; articles of agreement and copartnership for the Ohio Company, May
                            23, 1751, printed in James, Ohio Company, 205–19.
               
                     and to build a fort and a permanent trading post.11 These steps toward colonization so alarmed the French that they sent Céloron
                    de Blainville on a tour through the Ohio country to post lead plates bearing reaffirmation of French
                        possession.12
            
            Neither the Ohio Company of Virginia nor Governor Spotswood proposed the establishment of any new
                    governments outside of 
                        Virginia
                    's own jurisdiction. They did, however, advance many of the same arguments for
                    settlement of the western country as would the new colony advocates at a later date. Governor
                    Spotswood had said in 1718 that the shore of Lake 
                        Erie
                    , "almost in the center of the French Communication ... seems the most proper
                    for forming a Settlement on, by w'ch we shall not only share w'th the French in
                    the Commerce and friendship of those Indians inhabiting the banks of the Lakes, but may be able to
                    cutt off or disturb the communication between 
                        Canada
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                    . ..." Spotswood further remarked that "If such a Settlement were once
                    made, I can't see how the ffrench could dispute our Right of Possession ... and should they
                    think fitt to dispossess us by force, We are nearer to Support than they to attack. ..."13 Similarly, in 1751 the Ohio Company declared its intention of
                    "taking up and settling a Tract or Territory of Land [near the forks of the 
                        Ohio
                    ] and for the carrying on a Trade with the Indians in those Parts."14 These plans anticipated the ideas Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    , Thomas Pownall, Samuel Wharton, and numerous others expressed when they later detailed
                    their schemes for new western colonies.
            Two nearly simultaneous developments prompted these proposals for new interior colonies under
                    separate governments. The occasion for such proposals came with the crisis at the forks of the 
                        Ohio
                    , which demonstrated the inability of either Pennsylvania or Virginia to repel the
                    encroachng French. George 
                        Washington
                    's two expeditions, in 1753 and 1754, failed to prevent the French from
                    occupying western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and the peace-minded 
                        Quaker
                     assembly refused to sanction any claim by Pennsylvania to the environs of the forks.15
                    
                  
                     11 See Christopher Gist's journals for 1750–1751
                            in Mulkearn, George Mercer Papers, 7–40, and the documents
                            cited in note 9. The company was to receive some 300,000 additional acres upon fulfilling
                            these three tasks, which were conditions of the grant, within seven years.
                  
                     12 For an account of Céloron de Blainville's
                            expedition, see George A. Wood, "Céloron de Blainville and French
                            Expansion in the Ohio Valley," Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Review, IX (September, 1923), 302–19.
                  
                     13 Spotswood to the Lords of Trade, August 14, 1778, Brock, Letters of Spotswood, II, 297.
                  
                     14 Articles of agreement of the Ohio Company, May 23, 1751, James, Ohio Company, 206.
                  
                     15 See John C. Fitzpatrick, ed., The Writings of George 
                                    Washington
                                
                      (39 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1931–1944), I, 22–95, for 
                                Washington
                            's own accounts (in numerous letters and other documents) of his
                            expeditions. See also Pennsylvania Council Minutes, V, 763.
               
                     The failure of Virginia and Pennsylvania to hold the line
                    against the French was likely responsible for the calling of the 
                        Albany
                     Congress of 1754, at which some of the first thoughts of new interior colonies were
                    aired.
            The conference at 
                  Albany, New York
               , was an early landmark in American constitutional
                    history. It produced the famous 
                        Albany
                     Plan of Union, which included in its program Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    's proposals for the erection of new colonies. 
                        Franklin
                     urged that "The Establishing of new colonies westward on the Ohio and the
                    Lakes, (a matter of considerable importance to the increase of British trade and power, to the
                    breaking that of the French, and to the protection and security of our present colonies,) would best
                    be carried on by a joint union."16 Having thus advanced the central
                    arguments for colonizing the trans-Appalachian country, 
                        Franklin
                     further noted that 
                        A particular colony has scarce strength, enough to extend itself by new settlements, at so
                            great a distance from the old; but the joint force of the Union might suddenly establish a
                            new colony or two in those parts. ...
                        The power of settling new colonies is therefore thought a valuable part of the plan, and what
                            cannot so well be executed by two unions as by one.17
                  
                    
               
                        Franklin
                     also offered a suggestion as to how the new colonies might be prepared for membership
                    in the Anglo-American union. He proposed that the federal government of the union "make
                    laws for regulating and Governing such new Settlements, till the Crown shall think fit to form them
                    into Particular Governments."18
            
            The 
                        Albany
                     Plan of Union came to nought, but in it had appeared several ideas later to become
                    basic assumptions of the Continental Congress when that body dealt with the western question. These
                    notions were: that securing and settling the western country were vital to the safety and continued
                    economic prosperity of the older colonies; that establishing new settlements and governments in the
                    western country should be the responsibility of all the colonies in concert and in common; that the
                    new settlements and governments should be independent of any one of the older colonies; that the new
                    colonies should be elevated to membership in the union by predetermined and regular procedures; and
                    that provision be made by the union government for their temporary administration during the period
                    of initial settlement.19
            
            
               
                  16 Benjamin 
                            Franklin
                        , "Reasons and Motives for the 
                            Albany
                         Plan of Union," in Leonard W. Labaree, ed., The Papers of
                            Benjamin 
                                Franklin
                            
                   (15 vols., 
                            New Haven
                        , 1959-), V, 397–417, under subheading "Reasons against Partial
                        Unions," 401. To date this edition is complete through 1768.
               
                  17
                        Ibid., subheading "New Settlements," 411–12.
               
                  18
                        
                            Albany
                         Plan of Union, ibid., 390.
               
                  19
                        
                            Franklin
                        's draft of the Articles of Confederation, submitted on July 21, 
            
            
            Meanwhile, in Connecticut the exhaustion of lands available for speculation within the borders of
                    that colony had led, in 1753, to the organization of the Susquehannah Company.20
                    This enterprise proposed to purchase from the Indians the 
                        Wyoming
                     Valley of the Susquehannah, and to establish settlements there.21
                    The scheme involved the revival of the long dormant claims of 
                        Connecticut
                    , under her old charters, to the lands west of 
                        New York
                     and 
                        New Jersey
                    .22 The proponents of the project soon recognized the difficulty of
                    governing the noncontiguous territory from Connecticut and so expected to form a separate
                        government.23 Also, several of 
                        Connecticut
                    's delegates to the 
                        Albany
                     Congress were intimately connected with the Susquehannah Company. Having heard the
                    arguments of 
                        Franklin
                     and their seconding by Thomas Pownall, governor of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , and by Sir William Johnson, Indian agent for the northern colonies, they 
                  1775, contained the following provisions: [In Article V] "That the Power and Duty
                            of the Congress extend to ... the Planting of new Colonies when proper." [In
                            Article XIII] New colonies "may ... be received into this Confederation ... and
                            shall thereupon be entitled to all the Advantages of our Union, mutual Assistance and
                            Commerce." See Worthington C. Ford, et al., eds., Journals of the Continental Congress (34 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1904–1937), II, 196, 198.
                  
                     20 Boyd, Susquehannah Company Papers, I, xlii-lxxix,
                            and documents, ibid., 1–28.
                  
                     21 See the editorial note in ibid., Ixvii; minutes
                            of the meetings of the Susquehannah Company, July 18, September 6, 1753, ibid., 28, 40–41. The 
                                Wyoming
                             Valley is located in northeastern Pennsylvania in the vicinity of present
                            Scranton and Wilkes-Barre.
                  
                     22 These claims brought on a long and acrimonious dispute with 
                                Pennsylvania
                            . See Francis N. Thorpe, comp., Federal ana State Constitutions,
                                Colonial Charters, and Other Organic Laws (7 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1909), I, 535–36, for the basis of 
                                Connecticut
                            's claim to the 
                                Wyoming
                             Valley, the "sea to sea" boundaries specified in her 1662
                            charter. Actually, however, Connecticut had vacated this claim in two boundary agreements
                            with 
                                New York
                             in 1683 and 1700. See the second report of John Armstrong (a deputy sent by 
                                Pennsylvania
                            ) to the Connecticut council, November 27, 1754, in Boyd, Susquehannah Company Papers, I, 191; James Alexander to James 
                                Brown
                            , December 15, 1752, ibid., 193; minutes of the council of 
                                New Jersey
                            , August 20, 1755, ibid., 303–306.
                  
                     23 See testimony of Stephen Sayre concerning the Susquehannah Company,
                            1762, in which Sayre said that the company was to have a separate jurisdiction since
                            "the uniting that part [the 
                                Wyoming
                             Valley] with this [
                                Connecticut
                            ] would be attended with insurmountable difficulties." Boyd, Susquehannah Company Papers, II, 153; minutes of a meeting of the
                            Susquehannah Company, November 20, 1754, ibid., I, 167; resolution of the
                            Connecticut General Assembly on the memorial of the Susquehannah Company, May 2, 1755, ibid., 278–80. See also ibid., Ixvii-Ixviii,
                            where Boyd states that the size of the Susquehannah Company's purchase from the Six
                            Nations—some 5,000,000 acres—indicated that the company intended to
                            found a new colony. The deed of the cession, which was not authorized by the principal
                            chiefs of the Six Nations, is in ibid., 101–21. See also the
                            editorial note in ibid., Ixvii, quoting a dispatch of the 
                        
                                    London
                                 Magazine from Connecticut of July 27, 1753: "Several hundred
                            people of this colony have agreed to purchase a large tract of Land of the Six Nations of
                            Indians of the Susquehanna, about 300 leagues to the Westward, lying within the bounds of
                            their Charter, to settle upon it, Expecting that it will be in a short time a distinct
                            Government." This statement is probably the first public suggestion of any
                            independent western jurisdictions.
               
                     returned from the conference convinced of the expediency of
                    erecting a new colony from the Susquehannah Company's purchases.24
            
            The company in its subsequent program for colonization anticipated several considerations of the
                    western country by the Continental Congress. It expected its new colony to be confirmed as equal in
                    status to any of the older colonies. More specifically, it provided for the duplication of 
                        Connecticut
                    's "corporate" form of government in the new colony and for
                    the use of the New 
                        England
                     land system of townships and advance location and survey in settling the land.25 The company's program thus included some important ideas later
                    adopted in the Ordinances of 1785 and 1787—regular, advance survey and fully autonomous
                    status with traditional governmental organization for the new western commonwealth. The scheme also
                    maintained and elaborated upon the basis doctrines of 
                        Franklin
                    's reasoning at 
                        Albany
                    : "we being desirous to Enlarge his Majesty's English Settlements in
                    North America and further to Spread Christianity."26
            
            The debates at the 
                        Albany
                     Congress and the activities of the Susquehannah Company inspired several additional
                    proposals for new colonies. Soon after the 
                        Albany
                     conference Thomas Pownall offered his plan for two "barrier
                    colonies," one to be located in northwestern 
                        New York
                    , the other at the headwaters of the Connecticut River. A third colony, added later to
                    the scheme, was to be located immediately behind Virginia and Pennsylvania in the Ohio Valley.
                    Pownall's colonies were to pass through a temporary period of military rule until they were
                    settled sufficiently to assume the institutions of regular civil government as in the older
                        colonies.27 Here was a suggestion of the form of temporary territorial
                    government later drawn in the Ordinance of 1787.
            Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    , learning of Pownall's plan, proceeded in the 
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., I, Ixvii. The representatives were William Pitkin, Elisha Williams,
                            and Roger Wolcott, Jr.
                  
                     25 See, for example, minutes of a meeting of the Susquehannah Company,
                            May 19, 1762, ibid., II, 130–32; minutes of a meeting of the
                            Susquehannah Company, November 20, 1754, ibid., I, 166–67.
                  
                     26 Minutes of a meeting of the Susquehannah Company, July 18, 1753,
                                ibid., 28. See also Governor Roger Wolcott's approval of the
                            Susquehannah Company's project: "It will enlarge the English Possessions
                            of the Countrey & advance our Frontiers Into It and being settled with good
                            & orderly People will much Strengthen and Encourage ye English in north America
                            against ye encroachments of ye French ... and that it will be a Benefit to ye Six Nations of
                            Indians who have Been always in Strict Alliance with ye English as it will ... Strengthen
                            them in Time of Warr against ye force of the Enemy—." Ibid., 50–51.
                  
                     27 Pownall's plan is in his "Considerations toward a
                            General Plan of Measures for the English Colonies" (broadside, 
                                New York
                            , 1756), reprinted in Thomas Pownall, The Administration of the
                                British Colonies (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1774), II, 234–44. It may be found conveniently in E. B.
                            O'Callaghan, ed., Documents Relative to the Colonial History of the
                                State of 
                                    New York
                                
                      (12 vols., 
                                Albany
                            , N. Y., 1849–1861), VI, 893–97.
               
                     fall of 1754 to draft a "Plan for Settling Two Western
                        Colonies."28 This scheme, an elaboration upon that of
                    Pownall's and of 
                        Franklin
                    's own representations before the 
                        Albany
                     Congress, reiterated the importance of new colonies to the security of the frontier
                    against the French, and to the extension of British trade. 
                        Franklin
                     proposed the establishment of two colonies, one to be situated near 
                        Niagara Falls
                    , the other in the valley of the Scioto River. The two new colonies should have the
                    benefits of corporate government, as in Connecticut and 
                        Rhode Island
                    , which 
                        Franklin
                     considered to be the most efficient form and the most attractive for prospective
                    settlers. The older colonies, 
                        Franklin
                     suggested, would best be limited to the territory east of the Appalachians.29
            
            The next publicized proposal for a new colony was that of Samuel Hazard, a 
                        Philadelphia
                     merchant. Hazard had seen 
                        Franklin
                    's unpublished plan in the fall of 1754.30 Taking the plan
                    as his cue, Hazard announced the following spring a scheme for a colony embracing a huge territory
                    extending from the Alleghenies beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                    . The scheme's constitutional formula emphasized the missionary aspects of
                        colonization.31 Nevertheless, the new colony would have "the same
                    Privileges which the Colony of Connecticut enjoys." Like the Susquehannah Company
                    purchasers, Hazard planned to use the New 
                        England
                     land system in organizing his settlements.32 In addition 
                  
                     28 Benjamin 
                                Franklin
                             to Peter Collinson, June 26, 1755, in Labaree, 
                        
                                    Franklin
                                 Papers, VI, 87. The plan was not published, however, until 1756.
                  
                     29 "A Plan for Settling Two Western Colonies," ibid., V, 456–63. The plan was included in Thomas
                            Pownall's memorial to the Duke of 
                                Cumberland
                             in 1756. See also ibid., 457n. The plan was also intended by 
                                Franklin
                             to forestall the Susquehannah Company's designs upon the 
                                Wyoming
                             Valley, which Pennsylvania also claimed, by diverting attention to parts
                            farther west. 
                                Franklin
                             to Collinson, ibid., VI, 87. 
                                Franklin
                            's reasoning in his arguments for this plan was most characteristic:
                            "If two strong colonies of English were settled between the Ohio and Lake 
                                Erie
                             ... these advantages might be expected: "1. They
                                would be a great security to the frontiers of our other colonies; by preventing the
                                incursions of the French and French Indians of 
                                    Canada
                                 [into the older colonies]. ...
                            "2. The dreaded junction of the French settlements in 
                                    Canada
                                 with those of Louisiana would be prevented.
                            "4. We should secure the friendship and trade of the Miamis [Indians]. ...
                            "5. The settlement of all the intermediate lands, between the present frontiers
                                of our colonies on one side, and the lakes and Mississippi on the other; would be
                                facilitated and speedily executed, to the great increase of Englishmen, English trade,
                                and English power." "Plan for Settling Two Western Colonies,"
                                    ibid., V, 458–59.
                  
                  
                     30
                            
                                Franklin
                             to Collinson, June 26, 1755, ibid., VI, 87–88.
                            While 
                                Franklin
                             chastised Hazard for stealing his ideas and remarked that he thought Hazard
                            "not the fittest in the World to conduct such an Affair," he registered an
                            approval in principle of Hazard's plan.
                  
                     31 Samuel Hazard's scheme for a new colony, broadside, 1755,
                            in Boyd, Susquehannah Company Papers, I, 251–58, and
                            Hazard's petition to the Connecticut General Assembly, May, 1755, ibid., 246–51.
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., 252, 253. Hazard apparently expected to be proprietor of the
                            colony,
               
                     he was gathering together prospective settlers for his new
                    colony. When he petitioned the Connecticut General Assembly in May, 1755, seeking 
                        Connecticut
                    's acquiescence in making its western claim part of his colony, he reported
                    having enlisted "3508 Persons Able to Bear Arms."33 While this
                    and other of Hazard's claims were of doubtful veracity, the Connecticut assembly
                    nevertheless agreed to Hazard's request on the condition that the crown authorize the
                    establishment of the new colony.34 Hazard's scheme was without
                    particular originality or influence, yet it was indicative of how readily the new colony idea was
                    finding acceptance.
            The onset of the French and Indian War interrupted the increasing discussion of new western colonies,
                    and Hazard's proposals were the last to appear before the outbreak of hostilities. The
                    early phases of the war saw some serious setbacks to the Anglo-American efforts to colonize the
                    interior country. The Ohio Company of 
                        Virginia
                    , the only organization which so far had actually begun the settlement of lands beyond
                    the Alleghenies, saw all its work undone when the French took the company's unfinished fort
                    at the forks of the Ohio and destroyed its establishments at Redstone and "Gist's
                        place."35 Neither the colonies nor the British Lords of Trade would
                    accept the 
                        Albany
                     Plan of Union with its colonization proposals; and Hazard's scheme was
                    similarly ignored, soon passing into limbo with its inventor's death in 1758.36 Only the Susquehannah Company, for the time being, maintained hope; its plans for a new
                    colony, alone among the various schemes, embraced a territory that lay fairly within the established
                    bounds of British control. Further activity had to wait for successful prosecution and conclusion of
                    the war.37
            
            
               and his scheme was rather illiberal in that it denied civil rights to non-Protestants. Ibid., 254.
               
                  33 Ibid., 247.
               
                  34 Resolution of the Connecticut General Assembly on the memorial of
                        Samuel Hazard, May 2, 1755, ibid., 280–82.
               
                  35 See pp. 9–19 of the "Case of the Ohio
                        Company," pamphlet facsimile, Mulkearn, George Mercer Papers,
                        329–92.
               
                  36 According to Alden, New Governments, 10,
                        Hazard's son Ebenezer presented petitions to the Connecticut General Assembly in 1774,
                        attempting to revive the scheme, but his efforts failed.
               
                  37 The war and the gloomy prospects afforded by its early developments did
                        not deter 
                            Franklin
                         from continuing to voice his sentiments optimistically. In 1756 he wrote to George
                        Whitefield: "I sometimes wish that you and I were jointly employ'd by the
                        Crown, to settle a Colony on the 
                            Ohio
                        . I imagine we could do it effectually, and without putting the Nation to much
                        expence. ... What a glorious Thing it would be, to settle in that fine Country a large strong
                        Body of Religious and Industrious People! What a Security to the other Colonies; and advantage
                        to Britain, by Increasing her People, Territory, Strength, and Commerce. Might it not greatly
                        facilitate the Introduction of pure Religion among the Heathen, if we could, by such a colony,
                        show them a better sample of Christians than they commonly see in our Indian Traders, the most
                        vicious and abandoned Wretches of our Nation?" Benjamin 
                            Franklin
                         to George Whitefield, July 2, 1756, in Labaree, 
                     
                                Franklin
                             Papers, VI, 468–69. In 1760, 
                            Franklin
                         published the essay entitled "The Interest of Great Britain Considered
                        with
            
            
            With the Peace of 
                        Paris
                     in 1763 the forum for suggestions as to the future of the trans-Appalachian country was
                    once again open. A plethora of new schemes for colonization presently appeared, elaborating upon and
                    extending the ideas and plans of the earlier proposals. As the hostilities closed in favor of
                    Britain and Anglo-America, the development and constitutional arrangements of the western country
                    again became central issues. The imperial British ministry, finding itself now in the possession of
                    the coveted interior region, at once discerned the necessity of formulating some regular western
                    policy. Accordingly, the royal Proclamation of October 7, 1763, setting for the time being a
                    westward limit to settlement, was issued as an interim measure, in order to gain time to make
                    definite plans for the future of the western country.38 And now that the
                    Anglo-American grip on the Ohio Valley seemed secure, new proposals for western colonization again
                    proliferated.
            The first new proposal was publicized in Great Britain in the form of a pamphlet entitled
                    "The Expediency of Securing Our North American Colonies, &c.," and
                    published in Edinburgh, 
                        Scotland
                    , in November, 1763.39 The anonymous author of this pamphlet urged
                    that the territories of 
                  Virginia, Pennsylvania
               , and Maryland be confined to the
                    east of the Wabash and Maumee rivers and that the region between that line and the 
                        Mississippi
                    , and from the Ohio to the Great Lakes, be erected into the new colony of Charlotina.
                    The proposal located the nucleus of the new colony at the confluence of the Mississippi and
                        Ohio rivers. The pamphlet further described the advantages which would
                    accrue from such a colony, pointing out the natural resources of the area, and restating once more
                    the general principles behind the schemes of 
                        Franklin
                    .40 It said nothing, however, about a form of government for the new
                    colony.
            On the American side of the Atlantic the Proclamation of 1763, 
                  Regard to Her Colonies," in which he urged the seizure of the western country and
                            all of 
                                Canada
                             from the French in order to secure room for the colonies’ expansion.
                                Ibid., IX, 59–100.
                  
                     38 See, for example, George 
                                Washington
                            's comments on the Proclamation of 1763, in a letter to William
                            Crawford of September 21, 1767: "I can never look upon that Proclamation in any
                            other light ... than as a temporary expedient ... [which] must fall of course in a few years
                            especially when [the] Indians are consenting to our Occupying the Lands." 
                                Washington
                             was entirely confident of soon being able to obtain lands beyond the line of
                            the Proclamation. Fitzpatrick, Writings of 
                                    Washington
                                
                     , II, 468–69. For discussion at length of the Proclamation
                            of 1763, see Alvord, 
                                Mississippi
                            
                            Valley in British Politics, I, Chapter 7. The proclamaton is printed in
                            full in Clarence W. Alvord and Clarence E. Carter, eds., The Critical Period,
                                1763–1765 (
                                Springfield
                            , Ill., 1915), 39–45.
                  
                     39 Printed in Alvord and Carter, The Critical
                            Period, 134–61. The timing of this pamphlet suggests that it was intended as
                            a rejoinder to the then misunderstood Proclamation of 1763. See ibid.,
                            134n.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 139–46. Most especially, the colony was seen as a
                            security against Indian uprisings like Pontiac's Rebellon, then at its height.
                            Alden, New Governments, 12–14, misnames the colony as
                            "Charlotiana."
               
                     interdicting as it did any new western settlement, temporarily
                    discouraged the proponents of interior colonies. It muted, for example, the hopes of the Mississippi
                    Company, organized in Virginia shortly before the issuance of the proclamation to settle a colony on
                    the Mississippi straddling the lower 
                        Ohio
                    .41 When it soon became clear that the proclamation's limit
                    to western settlement was only temporary, new ventures for interior colonization appeared.
            Notable among these schemes was the Illinois Company, organized on March 21, 1766, and including
                    William 
                        Franklin
                    , Samuel Wharton, George Croghan, George Morgan, and, as secret members, Sir William
                    Johnson and Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    .42 This group sought a grant of 1,200,000 acres on the Illinois
                    River, which was to become the center of a new colony bounded by the 
                  Mississippi, Ohio, Wabash, St.
                    Joseph
               's, and Wisconsin rivers.43 William 
                        Franklin
                    , in his draft of the articles of agreement of the Illinois Company, reiterated the
                    fundamental reasons for the colonization of the western country—the increase of English
                    people, trade, and power, and the security of all the American dominions. He also proposed that
                    "a Civil Government be established there, agreeable to the Principles of an English
                        Constitution."44 The project, which was soon expanded to include
                    another colony centered at 
                        Detroit
                     and a third on the lower 
                        Ohio
                    , met with the enthusiastic approval of Lord Shelburne, the imperial secretary of state
                    for the southern department.45 Though its petitions were ultimately refused,
                    this scheme seems to have been the first new colony proposal to receive serious consideration from
                    the British ministry.46
            
            More important among the principal new concerns was the Indiana Company or "Suffering
                    Traders." This organization grew out of the two groups of Pennsylvania Indian traders who
                    had lost fortunes in the Indian uprisings of 1754 and 1763. After the failure of a petition seeking
                    monetary compensation for their losses,47 the 
                  
                     41 Articles of the Mississippi Company, printed in Archer B. Hulbert, "
                                Washington
                            's ‘Tour of the 
                                Ohio
                            ’ and ‘Articles of the Mississippi
                            Company,’" Ohio Archeological and Historical Society Publications, XVII (1908), 436–39; memorial of the Mississippi Company
                            to the king, September 9, 1763, printed in Carter, Illinois Country,
                            165–71. The company included, among others, George 
                                Washington
                             and Richard Henry Lee.
                  
                     42 Articles of agreement of the Illinois Company, printed in Clarence
                            W. Alvord and Clarence B. Carter, eds., The New Regime,
                            1765–1767 (
                                Springfield
                            , Ill., 1916), 203–204.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid.; William 
                                Franklin
                            , "Reasons for Establishing a British Colony at the Illinois with some
                            Proposals for Carrying the Same into Immediate Execution," printed in Carter, Illinois Country, 172–81.
                  
                     44 Ibid., 176.
                  
                     45 Benjamin 
                                Franklin
                            , "Remarks on the Illinois colony," ca. 1772, in Jared Sparks,
                            ed., The Works of Benjamin 
                                    Franklin
                                
                      (10 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1856), IV, 233–41.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., 235–39, describing discussions of the proposed Illinois
                            colony between 
                                Franklin
                             and Shelburne.
                  
                     47 Petition of the "Suffering Traders" of 1754 to
                            the king, April 1756, in the Ohio Company Papers (Etting Collection, Pennsylvania Historical
                            Society);
               
                     "sufferers" resolved in 1765 to obtain
                    instead a grant of land on the 
                        Ohio
                    . William Trent, one of the senior traders, was empowered by the "Suffering
                    Traders" to seek redress in this form.48 The Indiana Company was
                    related to the Illinois Company by interlocking membership, and together the two organizations were
                    the progenitors of the most nearly successful colonization scheme of all, the Grand Ohio or Vandalia
                    Company.
            The Indiana Company's new interest in lands on the upper Ohio undoubtedly derived from Sir
                    William Johnson's preliminary negotiations with the Six Nations Iroquois in 1764 and 1765
                    for a relocation of the Indian boundary. In 1765 Johnson met with the Iroquois chiefs at his
                    baronial residence on the Mohawk River in 
                        New York
                     and obtained from them a temporary agreement on a new boundary. The obliging Indians
                    relinquished their claims to the region south of the Ohio River and southeast
                    of an irregular line running through northern Pennsylvania and western 
                        New York
                    .49 The prospect of a vast tract of available lands on the upper
                    Ohio was thus created. In addition, the Indians confirmed earlier grants made to George Croghan and
                    William Trent near Fort Pitt, which gave them and their fellow "Suffering Traders"
                    a ready foothold on the 
                        Ohio
                    .50 Those members of the Indiana Company who also belonged to the
                    Illinois Company put aside the latter project in favor of this much likelier one.
            Three years later the Treaty of Fort Stanwix confirmed Johnson's pact of 1765.51 The Six Nations granted the Indiana Company 
                  James Breden to William Trent, May 22, 1756, ibid.; petition of the
                            "Suffering Traders" to the king, 1763 (?), ibid.
                  
                  
                     48 Grants of powers of attorney to William Trent by Thomas Smallman,
                            December 26, 1765, and by John Baynton, Samuel Wharton, Robert Callender, and Joseph Spear,
                            March 5, 1766, ibid.
                  
                  
                     49 Johnson's agreement with the Indians in 1765 is in
                            O'Callaghan, 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Colonial Documents, VII, 718–41. See also Ray Allen
                            Billington, "The Fort Stanwix Treaty of 1768," 
                        
                                    New York
                                 History, XXV (1944), 182–94. The refusal of the British
                            ministry to approve interior colonies such as that proposed by the Illinois Company, which
                            were not contiguous to the older colonies, probably was a factor in the shift of interest
                            among the new colony advocates to the upper Ohio region. Johnson's negotiations
                            with the Six Nations were rather characteristic of Anglo-American bartering with the Indians
                            for land. For a study in depth of the elaborate protocol involved in these dealings, see
                            Wilbur R. Jacobs, Wilderness Politics and Indian Gifts: The Northern Colonial
                                Frontier, 1748–1763 (
                                Lincoln
                            , Neb., 1966).
                  
                     50 Johnson's agreement of 1765, O'Callaghan, 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Colonial Documents, VII, 729. The grants of Croghan and Trent had been
                            located very close to the forks of the 
                                Ohio
                            . In this agreement the Indians also approved the idea of a land grant as
                            restitution for the traders’ losses. Ibid., 740.
                  
                     51 Treaty of Fort Stanwix, ibid., VIII,
                            111–34 (proceedings) and 135–37 (deed of cession); William Trent to
                            John Baynton, September 30, 1768, Ohio Company Papers; Trent to Baynton, December 1, 1768,
                                ibid.; Hugh Crawford to Trent, December 10, 1768, ibid. Only the claims of the suffers of 1763, and not those of 1754, were considered.
                            The Treaty of Fort Stanwix was an immense stimulus to those interested in western lands. It
                            also brightened the hopes of the Susquehannah Company, which was still engaged in
                            northeastern Pennsylvania and which had just sent Eliphalet Dyer to 
                                England
                             to "obtain his Majestys Confirmation
               
                     some two million acres of land as restitution for the losses of
                        1763.52 The company next dispatched Wharton and Trent as agents to 
                        London
                     to present petitions to the ministry and the king for confirmation of the grant.53 While in 
                        London
                     in the summer of 1769 Wharton and Trent, together with Thomas Walpole, a leading
                    British banker and a man of considerable political influence, and Thomas Pownall, former governor of
                    Massachusetts and earlier advocate of new colonization, organized a new company, which soon assumed
                    the name of Grand Ohio Company. The Indiana Company, in effect, provided the American membership of
                    this new enterprise and determined all of its policies.54
            
            The newly reconstituted company at once sought the confirmation of the Indiana grant, but with a
                    novel approach. Wharton and Walpole, availing themselves of the latter's financial
                    resources, offered to purchase the Indiana tract from the crown for the sum paid by the crown for
                    the entire Fort Stanwix cession. A memorial proposing this was laid before Lord 
                        Hillsborough
                     and the Lords of Trade on December 20, 1769. Receiving encouragement from the Lords of
                    Trade, the company then presented the offer to the Lords of the Treasury on January 4, 1770, and to
                    the king in council on the following May 8.55
            
            Prior to this time the Indiana-Grand Ohio Company had not intended to found a separate government. At
                    the meeting with the Lords of Trade, however, 
                        Hillsborough
                     suggested to Walpole and Wharton that they ask to purchase a tract large enough to form
                    a new 
                  of our [
                                Wyoming
                             Valley] purchase and formation into a Distinct Colony for the purpose of Civil
                            Government." Boyd, Susquehannah Company Papers, III, xii-xxix;
                            minutes of a meeting of the Susquehannah Company, January 6, 1768, ibid.,
                            1–2.
                  
                     52 Treaty of Fort Stanwix, O'Callaghan, 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Colonial Documents, VIII, 111–37; Samuel Wharton, Plain Facts (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1781), 83–88. The grant was bounded by the 
                                Ohio
                            , the Little Kanawha, and the 
                                Laurel
                             Mountains, the westernmost ridge of the Alleghenies. See also the agreement
                            among William Trent, George Croghan, Samuel Wharton, and Alexander Lowry, December 22, 1768,
                            Ohio Company Papers.
                  
                     53 Articles of agreement between William 
                                Franklin
                            , George Croghan, et al., and William Trent and Samuel
                            Wharton, December 30, 1768, Ohio Company Papers; memorial of Moses Franks to the king on
                            behalf of the Indiana Company, 1768, ibid.
                  
                  
                     54 Wharton, Plain Facts, 149. Wharton and Walpole
                            met on June 14, 1769, and soon thereafter organized a committee which on December 27, 1769,
                            became the Grand Ohio Company. This company was also called the Walpole Company and, later
                            on, the Vandalia Company. The name Grand Ohio Company was used to distinguish the new
                            organization from the old Ohio Company of 
                                Virginia
                            , which was, in fact, absorbed into the new organization through an agreement
                            with George Mercer, the older company's agent. Mercer's action, however,
                            dissatisfied other members of the old Virginia group, who were unhappy with the extremely
                            small share (one seventy-second part ownership) given them in the new concern. See James
                            Mercer (brother of George) to members of the Ohio Company, January 9, 1772, in Mulkearn, George Mercer Papers, 312–15; George Mason to James Mercer,
                            January 13, 1772, ibid., 315–17.
               
                     colony.56
                    
                        Hillsborough
                    , for reasons of domestic politics, secretly opposed the scheme and sought, by so
                    advising the company, to assure the unacceptability of its plans to the Lords of the Treasury. To
                    his chagrin the device backfired when the Lords agreed to the purchase.57
                    Henceforth, the controlling purpose of the Grand Ohio Company was to establish a new western colony.
            The Grand Ohio Company's progress was much slowed by 
                        Hillsborough
                     and his friends in the ministry, who contrived delays that eventually proved fatal to
                    the company's project.58 Nevertheless, before the outbreak of the
                    Revolution in 1775 suspended its activities, the Grand Ohio Company moved nearer to the actual
                    establishment of a new western commonwealth than had any preceding venture. In spite of 
                        Hillsborough
                    's opposition the king in council ordered on August 14, 1772, the certification
                    of the land grant and the erection of a new colony, Vandalia.59 The Privy
                    Council was directed to draw up a report on the grant and a draft of the charter for the new colony.
                    Lord Dartmouth presented the Privy Council's recommendations on May 6, 1773. Vandalia was
                    to comprehend all of the lands received from the Indians at Fort Stanwix, comprising the area
                    bounded by the Ohio and Louisa (now 
                        Kentucky
                    ) rivers and the westernmost ridge of the Alleghenies. All that was necessary now for
                    the establishment of the new colony was the preparation of its charter and grant. The solicitor
                    general and the attorney general, however, raised objections which delayed their carrying out the
                    instructions to prepare the documents until after the onset of the Revolutionary War.60
            
            The documents relating to the Vandalia colony contain the perfection of both the materialistic
                    reasoning behind the proposals for new western colonies and the means of government suggested for
                    them. The royal order in council of August 14, 1772, noted that "the Lands in Question do
                        not lie beyond the reach of advantageous Intercourse 
                  
                     55 Wharton, plain Facts, 149–50; Samuel
                            Wharton, Facts and Observations (
                                London
                            , 1774), 138–44.
                  
                            56
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     57
                            Ibid.; Benjamin 
                                Franklin
                             to William 
                                Franklin
                            , July 14, 1773, in Albert Henry Smyth, ed., The Writings of
                                Benjamin 
                                    Franklin
                                
                      (10 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1905–1907), VI, 96–99. It was ironic that so convinced
                            an opponent of western colonization suggested the most nearly successful try at western
                            colonization.
                  
                     58 Wharton, Plain Facts, 149–62; Wharton,
                                Facts and Observations, passim.; Benjamin 
                                Franklin
                             to William 
                                Franklin
                            , July 14, 1773, Smyth, Writings of 
                                    Franklin
                                
                     , VI, 96–99; Lord Dartmouth to Lord Dunmore, October 5,
                            1774, in the Papers of the Continental Congress, Item 41, X, 489; minutes of a meeting of
                            the Indiana Company at 
                                Pittsburgh
                            , September 22, 1775, Ohio Company Pipers.
                  
                     59 Wharton, Plain Facts, 153–54; order of
                            the king in council, August 14, 1772, Ohio Company Papers. It was originally proposed to
                            call the new colony Pittsylvanla.
                  
                     60 Report of the Privy Council of May 6, 1773, Ohio Company Papers;
                            Wharton, Plain Facts, 153–56; Wharton, Facts and
                                Observations, 113–18. Wharton angrily denounced the king's
                            lawyers, saying that they usurped the powers of ministers of the cabinet.
               
                     with this Kingdom," and that Wharton and Walpole and
                    their associates "are best entitled to such Mark of [his] Majestys Royal
                        Favor."61 Wharton and Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                     saved no energy in reiterating the same arguments in rebuttal to the 
                        Hillsborough
                     faction.62 The report of the Privy Council of May 6, 1773, besides
                    stating that the settlers in the territory of Vandalia "from their Nature and remote
                    Situation, cannot participate of the Advantages of the civil Constitution of any other
                    Colony," included a complete draft of the new colony's instrument of
                        government.63
            
            The proposed government of Vandalia included a royally appointed governor and a legislature of two
                    houses, much as in the other royal colonies. The governor had "the like
                    Powers—Privileges and Authorities both Civil and Military as are given to the Governors
                    of other Colonies under [the British imperial] Government." The upper house of the
                    legislature consisted of "a Council consisting of twelve Persons to be appointed by [the
                    crown] in like manner as the Councils in other Royal Governments." The council should
                    "have the same Powers Privileges and Authorities and be subject to the same Restrictions
                    and Regulations as in other Colonies." The lower house, called the "House of
                    Representatives," comprised "two Deputies elected by the Majority of Freeholders
                    of each of the Counties" of the colony; but, until the province had been sufficiently
                    settled to warrant the organization of twelve counties, the lower house would have twenty-four
                    members "chosen by the Freeholders of the Province at large." To qualify for
                    election as a representative, a man was required to own one thousand acres of land in fee simple,
                    and adhere to a Protestant faith; a voting freeholder must similarly own two hundred acres and be a
                    Protestant. The legislature jointly held the "Power and Authority to make, constitute and
                    ordain Laws Statutes and Ordinances for the Publick Peace Welfare and good Government of the said
                    Colony." Parliamentary procedure should be as "is observed in Respect to the
                    passing Acts of Parliament in Great Britain." The governor was given the right of veto and
                    of convening and proroguing the legislature; and the Privy Council reserved the right to disallow
                    laws of the colony. The new colony was also to have a superior court and lesser courts of common
                    law; the judges of these courts shared with the governor the powers of appointing local 
                  
                     61 Royal order in council, August 14, 1772, Ohio Company Papers.
                  
                     62
                            
                                Franklin
                            's reply to 
                                Hillsborough
                            , entitled "Rules by Which a Great ‘Empire May Be Reduced to
                            a Small One," is in Smyth, Writings of 
                                    Franklin
                                
                     , VI, 127–37, and further restates 
                                Franklin
                            's early arguments of 1754 for the founding of new colonies. See also
                            Wharton, Plain Facts, passim, and Wharton, Facts and,
                                Observations, passim.
                  
                  
                     63 Report of the Privy Council, May 6, 1773, Ohio Company Papers. The
                            discussion which follows is derived from this source.
               
                     magistrates. The Church of 
                        England
                     was established, and provision was made for the local election of vestrymen and
                    wardens.
            In drawing up the Vandalia charter the Privy Council was erecting a new dominion equal in status and
                    similar in most governmental respects to the older colonies. The Council specified as its
                    controlling purpose in so doing "the Necessity ... for introducing some regular and uniform
                    System of Government" into the western country. In this and in most of its other aspects
                    the Vandalia program, like the earlier new colony schemes, anticipated the guiding principles
                    followed by the Continental Congress when it undertook to prepare instruments of government for the
                        hinterland.64 When granting the requests of the Vandalia proprietors-to-be,
                    the Council was, moreover, merely following the sort of advice which Americans like Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                     had long been offering. This advice, expressed through the Privy Council in the
                    Vandalia charter, would presently find re-expression in the Continental Congress’
                    ultimate decision on statehood for the western country.
            Meanwhile, as the efforts of the Grand Ohio Company were reaching their climax, another new scheme
                    appeared which represented, by and large, the final stage in the development of the new colony idea.
                    This concern, called the Transylvania Company, differed considerably in its modus
                        operandi from most of the other colonization schemes. Rather than dealing with the imperial
                    ministry through regular channels to obtain a land grant and a charter as the other companies had
                    lately been doing, the Transylvania Company acted on its own initiative, apparently without other
                    authority, to establish and organize under a new jurisdiction a settlement beyond the mountains. The
                    company was organized originally as the Louisa Company, a speculative enterprise, by Judge Richard 
                        Henderson
                     of 
                        North Carolina
                    , in August, 1774.65 With the addition of a few more members the
                    Louisa Company became, on January 6, 1775, the Transylvania Company. 
                        Henderson
                     and his partners forthwith determined to found a new commonwealth in the Kentucky
                        country.66
            
            
               
                        Henderson
                    's group, which included Daniel Boone and Nathaniel Hart, another famous
                    pioneer in Kentucky history, proceeded from 
                        North Carolina
                     through 
                        Cumberland
                     Gap to Kentucky in March, 
                  
                     64 The Continental Congress was familiar with the Vandalia scheme,
                            having received several memorials and petitions from the remnant of the company after 1775.
                            One prominent member of Congress, James Wilson of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , was in fact a member of the Indiana Company. Copies of the royal order in
                            council of August 14, 1772, and of the report of the Privy Council of May 6, 1773, are in
                            the Papers of the Continental Congress, Item 41, X, 500ff.
                  
                     65 Articles of agreement of the Louisa Company, August 27, 1774,
                            Draper Collection, 1CC:2. See also Lester, Transylvania, Chapters 1 and 2,
                            for additional details.
                  
                     66 Articles of the Transylvania Company, January 6, 1775, Draper
                            Collection, 1CC: 3–9.
               
                     1775. Just prior to leaving, they purchased from the Cherokee
                    Indians at Watauga all the lands lying between the Kentucky River and the divide separating the
                    Tennessee and 
                        Cumberland
                     watersheds.67 In making the purchase and undertaking its settlement
                    the Transylvanians acted under the erroneous assumption that "the laws of 
                        England
                    " sanctioned their activities.68 Likewise, in erecting a
                    separate government the company merely acted on the precedent set by the "Watauga
                    association"; the latter, however, had been intended only to provide temporary government
                    until 
                        North Carolina
                     organized the district, and so its purposes were altogether unlike 
                        Henderson
                    's.69 In no form was there any authorization of 
                        Henderson
                    's scheme from existing jurisdictions, and his activities elicited stern
                    opposition from Virginia and 
                        North Carolina
                    .70
            
            Nevertheless, 
                        Henderson
                    's colony attained a fair degree of constitutional development. 
                        Henderson
                     and his associates proceeded to draw up a proprietary form of government for
                    Transylvania. 
                        Henderson
                     himself convoked a legislative body, issuing election writs to his colonists upon his
                    assumed prerogatives as proprietor. He met with the elected delegates on May 23, 1775, at
                    Boonesborough. In a preliminary speech he advised them that they were "perhaps ... fixing
                    the palladium, or placing the first corner stone of an edifice," in establishing the
                    government of Transylvania. Urging that it was "indispensably necessary, that laws should
                    be composed for the regulation of our conduct," 
                        Henderson
                     instructed the members of his legislature to erect courts and other machinery of
                    administration and law enforcement. This the delegates proceeded to do and on May 27 they, 
                  
                     67 Journal of Richard 
                                Henderson
                             in 
                                Kentucky
                            , ibid., 1CC: 21–30; Nathaniel Hart, Jr., to
                            Wilkins Tannehill, April 27, 1839, in the 
                                Louisville
                            
                            News-Letter of May 23, 1840, ibid., 1CC:
                            197–200. See also Lester, Transylvania, 29–45. The
                            purchase from the Cherokee, negotiated March 14–17, 1775, was called variously
                            the Treaty of Sycamore Shoals or the Path Deed.
                  
                     68 Articles of agreement of the Transylvania Company, Draper
                            Collection, 1CC: 3–9. In fact, the row over the Treaty of Fort Stanwix, during
                            which the validity of George Croghan's private purchases was called into question,
                            indicated the weak grounds upon which such purchases rested. Croghan, who had been in a
                            situation similar to that of 
                                Henderson
                            , thought the latter's purchase was legal. See Croghan's
                            deposition of 1777, ibid., 1CC: 135–36.
                  
                     69 See Turner, "Western State-Making in the Revolutionary
                            Era," for an account of the Watauga association. The Watauga settlers adopted the
                            laws of 
                                Virginia
                            , to which they had expected to be annexed; however, they had settled in
                            territory claimed by 
                                North Carolina
                            . 
                                Henderson
                             had had occasion to observe the methods of the Watauga settlers when he went
                            there to negotiate his purchase from the Indians.
                  
                     70 See, for example, Lord Dunmore's proclamation of March 21,
                            1775, Draper Collection, 1CC: 19–20; James Alves, "Col. Richard 
                                Henderson
                            ," 
                                Louisville
                            
                            News-Letter, May 30, 1840, ibid., 1CC: 202; Governor
                            Alexander Martin of 
                                North Carolina
                             to Lord Dartmouth, November 12, 1775, in William E. Saunders, ed., The Colonial Records of 
                                    North Carolina
                                
                      (10 vols., 
                                Raleigh
                            , N.C., 1890), X, 321–28, which described Transylvania as a
                            "felonious undertaking." A parallel may be observed in the intrusion of
                            the Connecticut emigrants and the Susquehannah Company into the 
                                Wyoming
                             Valley and 
                                Pennsylvania
                            's resultant opposition.
               
                     together with 
                        Henderson
                     and the other proprietors, concluded a "compact between the proprietors and
                    the people."71
            
            The "compact" was surprisingly democratic in tone. It provided for annual elections
                    to the legislature. The legislature, or "Convention" as it was usually called,
                    could adjourn and convene itself and was subject to be called into session by the proprietors in
                    cases of emergency. The "legislative authority" of the colony comprised
                    "three branches, to-wit: the delegates or representatives chosen by the people, a council
                    not exceeding twelve men, possessed of landed estate, residing in the colony, and the
                    proprietors." The proprietors reserved a veto over all legislation, in order to protect
                    their interests.72 The number of delegates from each community would
                    "be ascertained by law." The house of delegates had the sole power of the purse.
                    Judges of the superior court must "be appointed by the proprietors, but supported by the
                    people"; the lower court judges were to "be recommended by the people, and
                    approved of by the proprietors." Finally, the "compact" decreed
                    "a perfect religious freedom and general toleration."
            
               
                        Henderson
                     was trying to transplant an idealized version of proprietary government with a
                    democratic facade to the wilderness he had entered, assuming at the same time the regular
                    prerogatives of an independent colonial government. The principal weakness of 
                        Henderson
                    's scheme was that it tried to mix democracy with aristocratic paternalism.
                    Imposing quitrents and other feudalistic obligations upon a supposedly democratic political system
                    incurred for 
                        Henderson
                     the warm opposition of his own colonists, in addition to that of the governments of
                    Virginia and 
                        North Carolina
                    .73 Nevertheless, 
                        Henderson
                    's apparent wish to institute a democratic regime in his colony constituted a
                    notable precedent. Although his project soon collapsed, it very likely sowed the seeds of the
                    opposition to Virginian rule which resulted, ultimately, in 
                        Kentucky
                    's separate statehood.74 In this respect, it helped give
                    impetus to the concept that the western country must become part of the American union as new
                    states, not as territory subject to the older states.
            
               
                  71 Journal of 
                            Henderson
                        , Draper Collection, 1CC: 31–82; journal of the Transylvania legislature, 
                            Louisville
                        
                        News-Letter, June 6, 1840, ibid., 1CC: 202–206.
               
                  72
                        Ibid.; deposition of Nathaniel Hinderson at 
                            Williamsburg
                        , October 27, 1778, ibid., 1CC: 160–66; deposition of
                        John Floyd, October 23, 1778, ibid., 1CC: 170–73; deposition of
                        Isaac 
                            Shelby
                        , December 3, 1777, ibid., 1CC: 166–70; deposition of
                        Abraham Hite, October 23, 1778, ibid., 1CC: 173–77.
               
                        73
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  74 The Transylvania colony is perhaps better viewed as a stage in the
                        development of frontier separatism in the Revolutionary period. However, like the other new
                        colony schemes, it had something to offer in the way of suggestions for future western policy.
                        For a discussion of Transylvania's place among western separatist movements, see
                        Turner, "Western State-Making in the Revolutionary Era."
            
            
            The fate of the Transylvania Company's design was, of course, the same as that of all the
                    other schemes. Notwithstanding the multiplicity of proposals, none of the projects for new western
                    colonies ever came to fruition. As has been indicated, the failure of the 
                        Albany
                     Congress and the intercession of the French and Indian War cut short the early plans of
                    Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    , and the scheme of 
                        Franklin
                    's imitator, Hazard, expired with its exponent in 1758. The outbreak of the
                    American Revolution, and the accompanying self-assertion of the original colonies, sealed the fate
                    of all the other schemes. Transylvania, already disintegrating from within and ignored by the
                    Continental Congress, was the first to collapse.75 The royal authority under
                    which the colony of Vandalia had been ordered established ceased to be operable in America with the
                    inception of hostilities in the spring of 1775. The end of imperial interference certainly aided
                    Virginia in her efforts to forestall the Vandalia project, whose designated territories lay within 
                        Virginia
                    's historic claim. The Continental Congress, responding to 
                        Virginia
                    's pleas, finally excluded all of the private land company claims, including
                    Vandalia, by resolutions of September 13, 1783.76 And meanwhile, in November,
                    1782, the Susquehannah Company's aspirations were finally defeated when, after a long and
                    bitter controversy, its territories were awarded to Pennsylvania by a court of arbitration.77
            
            The failure of the plans for new western colonies to produce material results does not, however,
                    obscure their importance and interest as sources for precedents of the 
                        United States
                     territorial system. Although Congress officially disapproved of all the schemes, its
                    members presumably remembered and utilized many of the ideas that had been promulgated. Like the
                    Ordinances of 1785 and 1787, the proposals for new interior colonies—far more than
                    representing merely the grasping of speculators—were proffered solutions to the western
                    problem. The theme of problem and solution was demonstrated 
                  
                     75 See notes 70, 72, and 74. In the Journals of
                            Congress, Vols. II, III (covering the year 1775), there is absolutely no mention either
                            of 
                                Henderson
                             or of the Transylvania undertaking. See also James Hogg to Richard 
                                Henderson
                            , n. d. [December, 1775, or January, 1776], recounting fully the hostile
                            reactions of 
                                Virginia
                            's delegates in Congress to the presence of Hogg as a
                            "delegate" from Transylvania. Peter Force, ed., American
                                Archives’ (6 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1843), IV, 543–46. Silas Deane of Connecticut to James Hogg,
                            November, 1775, ibid., 556–57, displays a similarly
                            unsympathetic reaction.
                  
                     76 See Wharton, Plain Facts and Facts
                                and Observations, passim., for numerous references to Virginian opposition to the
                            establishment of Vandalia. The Indiana Company, after the failure of the Vandalia project,
                            tried unsuccessfully to have its own grant erected into a new colony. See the memorial of
                            George Morgan on behalf of the Indiana Company to the constitutional convention of 
                                Virginia
                            , December 12, 1777, Draper Collection, 1CC: 140–45. The resolution
                            of Congress of September 13, 1783, annulling the land companies’ claims, is in
                            the Journals of Congress, XXV, 560–64.
                  
                     77
                            Journals of Congress, XXIV, 6–32. The court met from November
                            12 to December 30, 1782, at Trenton.
               
                     in nearly all of the arguments of the new colony advocates.
                    Fundamentally, these arguments answered to three specific problems: the older colonies’
                    need for security against invasions and depredations; the problem of getting and maintaining
                    possession of the western claim; and the desire for a sphere for the continued growth of colonial
                    trade, settlement, and land speculation. The prospects for continued growth in the existing area of
                    the colonies no longer seemed satifactory. The proposed new colonies, as their backers pointed out,
                    offered solutions to all of these problems. The same problems, in only slightly different
                    circumstances, were dealt with presently by the infant Republic when it drew up the ordinances
                    creating the territorial system. Considerations of the Indian trade, of the Spanish and British
                    threats, and of the welfare of the original states and the western settlers alike always stood
                    before Congress and were part of the stimuli to establishment of the territorial system.
            Even more important, however, were the actual constitutional precedents offered by the schemes for
                    new colonies. Notable among these precedents was the introduction of the New 
                        England
                     land system of townships, rectangular coordinates, and advance location, to replace the
                    old, haphazard method of metes and bounds and indiscriminate location earlier used on the Virginia
                    and Pennsylvania frontiers. The New 
                        England
                     system was specified in the proposals of Thomas Pownall, Samuel Hazard, the
                    Susquehannah Company, and William 
                        Franklin
                    's Illinois Company.78 Moreover, the plans of Hazard, the
                    Susquehannah Company, the Illinois Company, and the draft charter of Vandalia all reserved for
                    public use (as for the support of schools and churches) certain portions of the territories of their
                    respective colonies.79 These ideas in refined form composed much of the
                    substance of the Land Ordinance of 1785.80
            
            The schemes for new western colonies also anticipated in many important respects the design of the
                    Ordinance of 1787. Most important, the new colony exponents expected their colonies to stand as
                    equals with the older colonies—to enjoy the same prerogatives and autonomy. They cited
                    the earlier example of 
                        Georgia
                    , which, though 
                  
                     78 Pownall's plan for new colonies, O'Callaghan, 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Colonial Documents, VI, 893–97; Boyd, Busquehannah Company Papers, I, xxxii-xxxv; petition of Samuel Hazard to the
                            Connecticut General Assembly, May 2, 1775, ibid., 253; minutes of a
                            meeting of the Susquehannah Company, May 19, 1762, ibid., II,
                            130–32; William 
                                Franklin
                            , "Reasons for Establishing a British Colony at the 
                                Illinois
                            ," Carter, Illinois Country, 172–81.
                  
                     79 Boyd, Susquehannah Company Papers, I, xxxii-xxxv;
                            petition of Samuel Hazard to the Connecticut General Assembly, May 2, 1775, ibid., 253; minutes of a meeting of the Susquehannah Company, May 19, 1762, ibid., II, 130–32; William 
                                Franklin
                            , "Reasons for Establishing a British Colony at the 
                                Illinois
                            ," Carter, Illinois Country, 172–81;
                            report of the Privy Council, May 6, 1773, Ohio Company Papers.
                  
                     80
                            Journals of Congress, XXVIII, 375–81.
               
                     not an interior colony, had been founded as a bastion against
                    Spanish and Indian depredations and intrusions on the southern frontier, and had been accorded a
                    status equal to that of the other colonies.81 This anticipated that clause of
                    the Northwest Ordinance of 1787 which declared that the new states "shall be admitted ...
                    on an equal footing with the original States."82 Moreover, by planning
                    new and separate governments for the western country, the new colony advocates announced their
                    conviction, born of experience, that the older colonies could not govern properly beyond certain
                    westward limits.83
            
            The new western colony schemes in addition presaged the Ordinance of 1787 in attempting to assure
                    that their prospective settlers would retain the privileges and rights they had enjoyed as
                    inhabitants of the older colonies. Except for the evangelical scheme of Hazard, the new colony
                    proposals, most notably Transylvania, were inclined to allow broad liberties of conscience although
                    they did usually restrict voting and officeholding to Protestants. In terms of property
                    qualifications, however, the Vandalia charter granted a suffrage no less liberal than that in most
                    of the older colonies.84 In Transylvania, which also promised "a
                    perfect religious freedom and general toleration," the suffrage belonged not merely to
                    freeholders, but to "the people."85 All of the colonization
                    ventures sought charters instituting the same forms of government that prospective settlers had been
                    used to in their home areas. Some proposals, like the Vandalia charter, actually spelled out the
                    powers and responsibilities of government in terms of "other Colonies."86
            
            There is some evidence that the proponents of the new colonies anticipated, in rough outline, the
                    "apprenticeship government" feature of the Ordinance of 1787. Thomas
                    Pownall's first proposal for new colonies provided for a period of military rule while
                    population, grew to sufficient strength to permit a civil government to take control.87 The 
                        Albany
                     Plan of Union delegated the temporary administration 
                  
                     81 See, for example, Benjamin 
                                Franklin
                            's essay, "The Interest of Great Britain Considered,"
                            Labaree, 
                        
                                    Franklin
                                 Papers, IX, 59–100.
                  
                     82
                            Journals of Congress, XXXII, 334–43; quotation is on page 342.
                  
                     83 See note 81. Richard Henry Lee later admitted that Virginia could
                            not maintain government in Kentucky or the Old Northwest in a letter to Patrick Henry,
                            November 15, 1778, in Edmund C. Burnett, Letters of Members of the Continental
                                Congress (8 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1921–1936), III, 495–96.
                  
                     84 Report of the Privy Council, May 6, 1773, Ohio Company Papers.
                  
                     85 Journal of the Transylvania legislature, in the 
                                Louisville
                            
                            News-Letter, June 6, 1840, Draper Collection, 1CC: 202–206. The
                            bill of rights appended to the Ordinance of 1787 also stipulated religious freedom with
                            similar eloquence. Journals of the Continental Congress, XXXII,
                            340–41.
                  
                     86 See the report of the Privy Council, May 6, 1773, for the proposed
                            Vandalia charter which contains references to "other colonies." The report
                            is in the Ohio Company Papers.
                  
                     87 See Pownall's plan in O'Callaghan, 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Colonial Documents, VI, 893–97.
               
                     of new settlements to the union government, stipulating that it
                    provide for their rule until their independent status as colonies had been established.88 In every case, temporary arrangements while the colonies were being settled
                    and organized were implicit, if not explicit, in their proponents’ plans.
            Also implied in the proposals for new western colonies was the supposition that the western country
                    would eventually be subdivided entirely into new commonwealths. Several of the new colony schemes
                    proposed the establishment of more than one new colony at a time. If any one of the projected new
                    colonies had been erected, it seems likely that others would have followed upon the precedent set by
                    the first one.89 The suggestion of separate interior colonies constituted,
                    therefore, an important departure from the old process of irregular peripheral expansion by the
                    individual colonies, in favor of an organized advance approach to western settlement. This was an
                    important step in the direction of the future territorial system.90
            
            The proposals for new western colonies reflected, moreover, a growing tendency in American political
                    thinking. Basically, this was the abandonment of provincialism in American politics in favor of the
                    view that all the colonies formed integral parts of a single national community and their
                    inhabitants one people. With regard to the western country, this meant that the land should belong
                    not in parcels to the individual colonies (or some of them), but to the whole union.91 This trend of thought would give birth after the Revolution to the federalized
                    structure and unity of the 
                        United States
                    , and to the territorial system as well. The destiny of the western country had become
                    an issue inseparable from the other questions arising in the years just before the eruption of the
                    Revolution: the future of American governmental institutions, and the relations of the individual
                    colonies to each other and to the central authority of the empire as a whole.92
                    
                  
                     88
                            
                                Albany
                             Plan of Union, Labaree, 
                        
                                    Franklin
                                 Papers, V, 387–92.
                  
                     89 This question is, of course, conjectural, because of the outbreak
                            of the American Revolution right in the middle of several efforts to found new colonies.
                  
                     90 The Continental Congress produced its resolutions calling for the
                            cession of the western country and for the erection of the new states in part upon the
                            consideration of the many petitions it received from the Vandalia, Indiana, 
                                Illinois
                            , and other land companies. See the Journals of Congress,
                            XVIII, 915, for the resolution of October 10, 1780, declaring the intention of Congress to
                            ask for cessions of the state claims to western lands and to provide for eventual western
                            statehood.
                  
                     91 It is noteworthy that Virginians, from the state having the most
                            convincingly established and largest western claim, and Pennsylvanians, from a state without
                            a western claim, participated in comparable numbers in the schemes for the new western
                            colonies. From 
                                Virginia
                            , there were the Lees and Washingtons, for example; from 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , the two Franklins, George Croghan, Samuel Wharton, William Trent, the Gratz
                            family, and others.
                  
                     92 For example, the Quebec Act of 1774, which Incorporated the Old
                            Northwest into the province of Quebec, was popularly damned in the English speaking colonies
                            as one of the oppressive "Intolerable Acts." The Quebec Act is in A.
                        
               
                     When the Continental Congress, following the extinction of
                    British authority in the colonies, inherited the full weight of the western problem, it found it one
                    of the principal issues with which it had to deal.
            The schemes for new western colonies must be regarded as an important phase in the development of
                    American constitutionalism. In a general way they exemplified the unifying forces rising from
                    beneath the surface of pre-Revolutionary America; and they provided the background for, and a
                    preview of, one of the more distinguished political achievements of the revolutionary 
                        United States
                    —the territorial system, as provided for in the Ordinance of 1787.
            
               Shortt and A. G. Doughty, eds., Canadian Archives: Documents Relating to the
                            Constitutional History of 
                                Canada
                            , 1759–1791 (
                            Ottawa
                        , 1918).
            
         
         
         
            A British View Of Indiana's Agriculture, 1879
            
                     Lowell H. Harrison
                    *
                
            By the close of the 1870s British agriculture, which had recently enjoyed a period of almost
                    unparalleled prosperity, was rapidly approaching a state of crisis. Many of the causes were local,
                    but a major factor was the increased competition from 
                        Canada
                     and the 
                        United States
                    .1 An Agricultural Interests Commission was appointed by the House
                    of Commons to survey the entire problem in an effort to discover possible legislative solutions, and
                    two members of Parliament, Mr. Claire Read and Mr. Albert Pell, were sent to America to investigate
                    the competition at first hand.2
            
            The commissioners were, according to Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli, "two great ornaments
                    of the farming class in this country."3 Read (1826–1905), a
                    member of a prominent Norfolk farming family, was successfully managing large properties before
                    reaching his majority. Elected to the House of Commons in 1865 as a Tory, he held his seat until
                    1880 when he was defeated by a single vote. Read sat in the House again in 1884–1885 but
                    was an unsuccessful candidate in 1886. His major concern in the House was agricultural affairs, and
                    during his tenure he served on almost every important agricultural committee. Read wrote several
                    prize essays on agriculture, and he worked actively in various agricultural societies. Appointed
                    parliamentary secretary to the Local Government Board in February, 1874, he resigned two years later
                    when the government refused to extend to 
                        Ireland
                     the provisions of the Cattle Diseases Act. In appreciation of his many services English
                    farmers presented him with a silver salver and a purse of £5500.4
                    Claire Read was an obvious choice for the investigation of American agriculture.
            His colleague, Mr. Albert Pell (1820–1907), was also a distinguished agriculturalist.
                    Pell's father was a lawyer and a judge, and Pell was destined for the bar until he
                    succumbed to his love for 
                  
                     * Lowell H. Harrison is professor of history, Western Kentucky
                            University, 
                                Bowling Green
                            .
                  
                     1 A contemporary description of the problem is "The Plight of
                            the English Farmer," The Nation, XXVIII (March 27, 1879),
                            212–13. The classic survey of British agriculture, updated with critical and
                            bibliographical introductory essays, is Rowland E. P. Ernie, English Farming,
                                Past and Present (6th ed., 
                                London
                            , 1961, reprinted 1968).
                  
                     2 "Joint Report of Mr. Claire Read and Mr. Albert Pell,
                            M.P.," Reports of the Assistant Commissioners: Agricultural Interests
                                Commission, in House of Commons, British Sessional Papers (1880), XVIII, No. 1.
                            Their notes are printed as an appendix to their formal report.
                  
                     3 Fargo (N. D.) Times, October 11, 1879, quoted in
                            Bertha L. Heilbron, "A British Agricultural Expert in the Red River Valley,
                            1879," 
                        
                                    North Dakota
                                 Historical Quarterly, VII (January-April, 1933), 94n.
                  
                     4 Sir 
                                Sidney
                             Lee, ed., The Dictionary of National Biography, Supplement
                                1901–1911 (3 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1912), III, 168–69.
               
                     country life. He farmed quietly and efficiently until 1865 when
                    his indignant demands for action to combat the cattle plague brought him to the public's
                    attention. Elected to the House of Commons three years later, he served in that body until his
                    retirement in 1885. Though politically a Tory, Pell was considered radical in several areas in which
                    he sought reforms. His particular interests included the poor law, county government, local
                    taxation, social reform, and agricultural improvements. Pell was active in writing and teaching
                    about agriculture following his retirement from the House.5
            
            The British commissioners saw Indiana's agriculture in an especially good year. An
                    agricultural revolution had been wrought within the generation by better transportation outlets,
                    improved farming techniques, and increased use of machinery.6 The acres devoted
                    to corn had increased from 2,627,980 in 1872 to 3,517,808 in 1879, although the yield per acre had
                    remained almost constant at 32–33 bushels per acre. But the production of wheat had
                    soared from 1,902,599 acres in 1872 to 2,422,480 acres in 1879, and the 1879 yield of 20.3 bushels
                    far exceeded the decade's average of 12.9. The number of cattle had declined from 1,211,246
                    in 1872 to 1,065,143 in 1879, but by the latter year Indiana breeders were convinced that they were
                    at last producing cattle equal to those found anywhere in the country.7 Although
                    obviously swayed by local pride, the 1879 
                        Putnam County
                     agricultural report asserted that "
                        Putnam County
                     can produce as fine herds of Short Horns as any place," and the 
                        Vermillion County
                     report stated flatly that "The cattle were the best ever exhibited at our
                    fair." Both counties also reported exceptionally good wheat crops, although corn yields
                    were somewhat disappointing.8
            
            Read and Pell landed at 
                        New York
                     on September 7, 1879, and sailed for home just over three months later. During their
                    crowded stay they covered some 9,400 miles in their effort to obtain information on American
                    agriculture. Two weeks were spent in 
                        Canada
                    ; the rest of the time they crisscrossed the 
                        United States
                    .9 In early November the commissioners spent a few days in Indiana,
                    chiefly in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the western portion of the state, before going on to 
                        Kentucky
                    . The brief field notes of Read and Pell do not, of course, present a comprehensive view
                    of Indiana agriculture, but the notes do give an interesting glimpse of the state's
                    agricuture as it caught the attention of expert visitors in 1879.
            
               
                  5
                        Ibid., 98–99.
               
                  6 Dr. R. T. Brown, "Review of Agriculture in Indiana,"
                            Annual Report of the Indiana State Board of Agriculture, 1880 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1881), 217–19. A general account of Indiana agriculture in the period
                        1850–1880 can be found in Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War
                            Era, 1850–1880 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1965), 362–403.
               
                  7
                        Annual Report of the Indiana State Board of Agriculture, 1879 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1879), 276, 278; Annual Report, 1880, 343.
               
                  8
                        Annual Report, 1879, 336, 345.
               
                  9 "Joint Report of Read and Pell," 3.
            
            
            
                    Report of Read and Pell
                    1
                
            INDIANAPOLIS, Nov. 12.
            A weather chart is suspended in the room of the Board of Trade in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .2 It is large and on canvas, with contour lines, and the points of
                    observations, called stations, named in red. Moveable discs about the size of a farthing are daily
                    attached near the stations, red for fine, blue for cloudy, half blue, half white, for cloud and rain, white for rain, black and white stripes for snow. Adjustable cardboard arrows on the map next each
                    station indicate the direction of the wind, and slips of manuscript appended show the records of
                    barometer and thermometer and the rainfall in inches.
            The farm of Mr. Oliver Johnson,3 Walnut Grove, 3 miles from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , consists of 160 acres; 40 acres wheat, 40 maize, 20 oats and seeds, 60 wood and
                    grazing land. The stock are 6 horses, 30 horned cattle, and 30 sheep. The land is manured regularly,
                    the dung being put on the seeds, and on wheat after wheat, and this practice, Mr. Johnson says, will
                    have to be followed if the fertility of the land is to be maintained. The average crop of wheat is
                    13 to 15 bushels, and the average price 1 dollar, or 33s. 4d. a
                    quarter of 480 lbs.; of corn, 30 bushels, at an average price of 40 cents or 1s.
                        8d., or 13s. 4d. the quarter of 448 lbs. A
                    man and a pair of horses will prepare the land, and sow and cultivate 20 acres of corn (maize). It
                    is well to "cultivate" this crop five times, till the tassel is out. The yield
                    depends on cultivation more than on season.
            The wheat is cut in the last week of June or the first week of July. Two regular hands cost 18
                    dollars a month, with bed and board. The price of an extra man in busy times is 1 dollar to 1 dollar
                    50 cents a day, with bed and board. For three winter months, only one hand is required. The men then
                    out of place may, and do in some cases, even 
                  
                     1 The document which follows is a transcription of a photographic copy
                            of the field notes contained in the appendix to the "Joint Report of Mr. Claire
                            Read and Mr. Albert Pell, M.P.," Reports of the Assistant
                                Commissioners: Agricultural Interests Commission, in House of Commons, British
                            Sessional Papers (1880), XVIII, No. 1. The only change from the original is the omission of
                            marginal subject headings. Monetary conversions included are those of the original document.
                  
                     2 The Board of Trade Building measured 60 by 145 feet and was
                            approximately 40 feet high. Its formal dedication had been on December 15, 1874. 
                                Indianapolis
                             Board of Trade, Annual Report of the Trade & Commerce of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1879, comp., Henry C. Wilson (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1880), cover picture and descriptions.
                  
                     3 Oliver Johnson was born in 
                                Franklin County
                             in 1821, but his family moved to 
                                Marion County
                             when he was just a child. His agricultural reputation was excellent. Commemorative Biographical Record of Prominent and Representative Men of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and Vicinity (
                                Chicago
                            , 1908), 79–82. Johnson's memories of his early life were
                            recorded by his grandson in Howard Johnson, ed., A Home in the Woods: Oliver
                                Johnson's Reminiscences of Early 
                                    Marion County
                                 (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XVI, No. 2; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1951).
               
                     when 40 years old, attend school. Others spend their time and
                    money in drinking. The value of this farm with improvement, house buildings and fencing, at the
                    present time is 200 dollars an acre 41l. 10s. From as low as 10
                    bushels an acre of wheat has been raised up to 42 bushels, and of corn from 20 bushels up to 80
                    bushels.
            Mr. Gallup,4 president of the Board of Trade, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , says that within the last eight years freights to the seaboard (say to 
                        Boston
                    ) have been 80 cents the 100 lbs., they then dropped as low as 22 cents; this was
                    followed by combination and the establishment of "the pool" among railway
                        companies;5 and freights stand now at 42 cents per 100 lbs., equivalent to a
                    rise of 6d. per bushel or 4s. a quarter in the carriage of the
                    grain to the seaport, which now stands at 8s. 5d. per quarter of
                    480 lbs.
            Mr. Chas. Dawson6 owns near 
                        Indianapolis
                     163 acres of fair land. In 1879, 100 acres of this was in corn, the remaining 63 acres
                    in wood. Hog cholera has alarmed him, it has become so frequent. It is usual to follow a rotation in
                    cropping—a simple one, wheat and corn. There are 25 acres sown with winter wheat this
                    fall, and the truth is admitted that in this neighbourhood, to cultivate with success, farmers must
                    begin to use ferilisers, and the sons of the present agriculturists will have to adopt the English
                        plan.7 The fertiliser here is clover; the best farmers keep one-third of
                    their land down in this plant for the scythe or feeding off, or to turn under the furrow for
                    autumn-sown wheat. Sixty bushels is now accepted as a good crop of corn, against the higher average
                    of 80 bushels, which was achieved 
                  
                     4 William P. Gallup, of Gallup, Clark & Co., Grain Dealers,
                            was president of the Board of Trade in 1879–1880. 
                                Indianapolis
                             Board of Trade, Annual Report, 1879, 6.
                  
                     5 Cooperation by connecting railroads in the organization of fast
                            freight lines was an important trend in the 
                                United States
                             after the Civil War. The object of these lines, which operated pools of
                            equipment from the railroads involved, was to offer through service, thereby cutting the
                            costs and eliminating the inconvenience of transshipment. Their use completely changed the
                            pattern of grain traffic. The route of grain from the West to the major market of 
                                Boston
                            , for example, had been by way of the Great Lakes, the Brie Canal, and the
                            Hudson River to 
                                New York
                            , thence by coastal steamer. By 1874, however, the bulk of western grain arrived
                            at 
                                Boston
                             in through railroad cars. George Rogers Taylor and Irene D. Neu, The American Railroad Network, 1861–1890 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1956), 67–76. The term pooling also came to denote
                            agreements by which railroad companies sought to control prices by apportioning the
                            available freight business rather than competing for it. Such agreements were outlawed by
                            the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887. Henry Steele Commager, ed., Documents of
                                American History (7th ed., 2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1963), I, 580.
                  
                     6 Charles Dawson was born in 
                                Marion County
                             in 1824. His agricultural career was interrupted by a two year visit to 
                                California
                            , but in 1854 he returned to the Indiana farming he loved. His total holdings
                            exceeded 600 acres. Commemorative Biographical Record, 203–204.
                  
                     7 The work of the agricultural research station established at
                            Rothemsted in 1843 encouraged British agriculturists to use artificial fertilizers and
                            scientific plans of crop rotation rather than the older soil-exhausting system of
                            alternating crops with fallow fields. Rowland E. P. Ernle, English Farming,
                                Past and Present (6th ed., reprint, 
                                London
                            , 1961), 368–71, 440.
               
                     in years gone by, and it is universally admitted that the yield
                    of land has diminished after being subjected to continuous cropping. Rates are 1 dollar an acre on
                    land valued at 100 dollars, to which must be added 1 per cent, on personalty, equal to 25 cents per
                    acre, making a total of over 6s. an acre.8
            
            Mr. Luther Johnson's9 farm at Maidwell Grove consists of 205 acres; of
                    this 40 acres are in wood, with some grazing ground under the trees; 62 acres have been wheat, 55
                    acres corn, and the balance in seeds for mowing and pasture. The stock are 6 horses and mules, 10
                    horned cattle, 75 to 150 sheep, 40 hogs; the last-named animals being objects of suspicion and
                    alarm. The cholera breaks out without any warning or without the introduction of any fresh stock.
                    The animals are alive and hearty in the morning and dead at night. Manure is put on the clover leys
                    in the autumn for wheat, and again is supplied in the spring to land intended for corn. Seeds are
                    kept down two, three, and four years. When Mr. Johnson was a boy blue grass was scarce, now it is
                    very general in pastures.
            A man and a pair of horses will grow and "cultivate" 25 acres of corn five times.
                    Mr. Johnson employs two regular hands by the month, and one extra during three months, but Mr.
                    Johnson's boy of 16 helps. Four extra men are wanted in harvest, at 1 dollar 50 cents a
                    day, and bed and board; this is only for six or eight days. The pay of the regular hands is 13
                    dollars a month, with bed and board. In the month of November a hand may be secured for 75 cents and
                    dinner. The labourers breakfast before sunrise, work from sunrise till 12, then lie by for one hour
                    to work again till supper at 5, which is eaten "as fast as may be," and the
                    day's toil is not concluded till the sun sets. On the longest day the sun rises at 4.32 and
                    sets at 7.32. On the shortest day the sun rises at 7.22 and sets at 4.44. On April 1st it rises at
                    5.44 and sets at 6.24, and on October 1st it rises at 5.56 and sets at 5.43, giving during the year
                    more hours of daylight for work than in 
                        England
                    , with shorter days in summer and longer in winter.
            Agricultural land is let at 6 dollars an acre, the owner paying the taxes. If the rent is paid in
                    kind, the terms are these: the landlord finds all the land and pays all the taxes; he also does the
                    repairs. For rent he takes half the grain threshed and delivered to granaries on the farm, and the
                    corn in the ear to the farm cribs. The tenant pays another rent here by the month for the grass,
                    which is not, as is sometimes the case, thrown into the bargain. Taxes on the farm are 1 dollar 85
                    cents per acre, to which that on personalty adds 15 cents more, making on the whole 2 dollars, or
                        8s. 4d. per acre. There have 
                  
                     8 Rates, of course, was the English, term for taxes; 6s. was approximately $1.44.
                  
                     9 Luther Johnson was probably a brother of Oliver Johnson. Commemorative Biographical Record, 80.
               
                     been a great number, of foreclosures of mortgages during the
                    past three years, owing to the bad times. In 1879, 461/4 bushels per acre of
                    wheat were grown on 35 acres, after clover for two years pastured with sheep; 32 acres in 1879 grew
                    35 bushels per acre after corn and after wheat. Corn will average in 1879 about 60 bushels per acre;
                    though the average yield has been dropping during the past six years, and so has the yield of wheat.
                    If that of 1879 is taken out of account, it will not rise above 18 bushels an acre on this farm,
                    while that for the county during the same period does not exceed 13 bushels for wheat and 50 bushels
                    for corn. The cost, however, of raising and harvesting a crop of wheat now, compared with that of 20
                    years ago, is probably less.
            River washed wool was worth 75 to 80 cents in 1874; in the spring of 1879 it could be bought for 20
                    cents the lb., and now it has risen (November 1879) to 30 cents; 10 cents more, or 40 cents the lb.,
                    would satisfy the grower.
            At 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana, abortion among cows is said to be warded off by giving a pint of hemp every
                    other day from the time of serving to the period at which the cow last slipped calf, but a great
                    short-horn breeder placed no reliance on this prescription.
            At Mr. Lockridge's10 farm is a roan bull, five years old, thoroughbred,
                    with a splendid coat and grand rump and round; the charge for his use is 10 dollars or 2 guineas.
                    Mr. Lockridge's herds were examined, beautiful short-horns, and in capital condition. Mr.
                    Lockridge runs a big bullock to 5 acres this year, they are sold, and he has bought [sic] in 2 and 3 year old steers for next year's grass. They cost 31/4 cents per lb. and weighed 1,300 lbs., having grass only during the winter, save in
                    coarse weather, when they may have hay or corn stalks. The arable land is let to tenants who give
                    half the wheat (the landlord finding seed and paying for threshing his half crop) and one-third of
                    the corn and oats. The soil in the neighbourhood of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Green Castle is a limestone and deep loam along the river bottoms.
            
               
                  10 Several Lockridges in the 
                            Greencastle
                         area were noted stockmen. Andrew Malone Lockridge was born in Kentucky in 1814 and
                        moved to 
                            Putnam County
                        , Indiana, in 1835. In 1846 he moved to 
                            Greencastle
                         where he built an elegant home and became "one of the heaviest and best
                        known dealers in fine beef cattle in the state." His brother Robert and his sons,
                        Simpson F., Alexander, and Albert, were also established stockmen by the time the British
                        commissioners visited that area. Biographical History of Eminent and Self-made Men
                            of the State of Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1880), I, Fifth District, 23; Alvin H. Sanders, Shorthorn Cattle (
                            Chicago
                        , 1918), 415, 440, 510, 742. Simpson F. Lockridge, born in 
                            Putnam County
                         in 1846, was active in the American Association Breeders Shorthorn Cattle of the 
                            United States
                         and Province of 
                            Canada
                         for eight years. Miss Eleanore Cammack, archivist, Roy O. West Library, DePauw
                        University, to author, October 3, 1969; Mrs. William Boatright, president, 
                            Putnam County
                         Historical Society, to author. October 4, 1969.
            
            
            Dr. Stevenson,11 of Green Castle, lets his arable land and takes in cattle to
                    graze for 1 dollar a month.
            Mr. Lockridge's thorough-bred Durhams are big thick-fleshed and are more adapted for the
                    production of heavy feeding steers. At another of Mr. Lockridge's farms were seven majestic
                        43/4 years old graded steers. It was stated that when quartered the meat
                    would be too large to hang between decks, and was therefore unfit on this account for exportation.
                    They seemed, as well, to be too big and heavy for the English market, weighing as they did 2,300
                    lbs. They were expected to bring 6 cents a lb. at Christmas. The owner had already sold 40 away from
                    this lot at 5% cents per lb., averaging 1,940 lbs. each.
            The Hon. O. P. Davis12 of 
                  Newport, Vermillion County
               , Indiana,
                    grows from 1,000 to 1,200 acres of "corn" yearly; he finds the seed and gives from
                        121/2 cents to 15 cents per bushel for the cultivation. The land is ploughed
                    5 inches deep, harrowed [,] marked, dropt, cultivated four times, harvested, and delivered into
                    cribs at that price. Mr. Collett13 of Eugene, Indiana, also pays 121/2 cents for growing corn. On really good deep land corn has been grown for 50
                    years and averaged 60 bushels an acre.
            Professor John Collett,14
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    , has had from 25 to 40 tenants upon the family estate, and has let the land for 3
                    dollars an acre for wheat, corn, grass, and pasture: all landlord's outgoings amount to 25
                    cents an acre, which he pays, and also finds timber, &c. for repairs, tenants doing the
                    labour. Mr. Isaac Porter,15 of Eugene, 
                  
                     11 This was probably Dr. A. C. Stevenson of 
                                Putnam County
                             who in 1853 made the second recorded importation of Shorthorns into Indiana
                            direct from 
                                England
                            . In 1872 he was elected first president of the state and national Shorthorn
                            Breeders’ Associations. W. C. Latta, Outline History of Indiana
                                Agriculture (
                                Lafayette
                            , 1938), 190. Dr. Stevenson attempted without much success to convince other
                            breeders that Shorthorns made excellent milk as well as beef producers. See his remarks at
                            the Indiana Short-Horn Breeders’ Association, May 27, 1879, in Annual Report of the Indiana State Board of Agriculture, 1879 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1879), 368–69.
                  
                     12 Oliver P. Davis was born in Warner, 
                                New Hampshire
                            , in 1814. He settled in 
                                Vermillion County
                            , Indiana, in 1840 and eventually acquired landholdings amounting to 1,300
                            acres. Davis was a delegate to the Indiana Constitutional Convention of 1851 and served in
                            the state senate from Parke and Vermlllion counties in 1863, 1865, 1875, and 1881. He died
                            in 1892. Harold L. O'Donnell, 
                        
                                    Newport
                                 and Vermittion Township: The First 100 Tears, 1824–1924 (
                                Danville
                            , Ill., 1969), 221–23.
                  
                     13 It has not been possible to identify which Collett was referred to
                            here. Several members of that family apparently owned land in that general area.
                  
                     14 John C. Collett, born in 1828 at Eugene, Indiana, was a state
                            senator in 1871–1873 and state geologist 1879–1884. In 1879 he was
                            using some 1,300 acres of Improved land in 
                                Vermillion County
                            . John D. Collett, "The Collett Family," in "Indiana
                            Genealogy," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXV (September, 1939),
                            341; Biographical History ... of Indiana, I, South District,
                            24–25.
                  
                     15 Isaac Porter was born in 1833 in 
                                Vermillion County
                            , where he served as sheriff from 1860 to 1864. He moved to
                                    
                        Danville, Illinois
                     , in 1878 but kept his. large tract of bottom
                            land in Indiana, where his son settled after Porter's death in 1898. Harold L.
                            O'Donnell, Eugene Township (
                        
                                    Vermillion County
                                , Indiana); The First 100 Years, 1824–1924 (
                                Danville
                            , Ill., 1963), 326–28.
               
                     Indiana, has land worth 60 dollars an acre, which he lets for
                    wheat growing. It has grown wheat continually for 10 years, and he receives one half the produce,
                    which has averaged 9 dollars an acre.
            Mr. J. W. Davidson,16 of Mahomet, 
                        Illinois
                    , lets 250 acres; 50 acres of wheat average 30 bushels, landlord finds seed and receives
                    half crop; 150 acres of corn yield 60 bushels and landlord receives two-fifths of the crop; 50 acres
                    oats yield 50 bushels, landlord finds seed and receives one-half for rent. He grazes the grass land
                    himself, allowing the tenant 20 acres of pasture for his cows; 20 acres of meadow land are cut for
                    hay, and the crop divided between landlord and tenant. Rates and taxes always paid by owner.
            
               
                  16 James W. Davidson was born in Ohio in 1844 and moved to Mahomet, 
                            Champaign County
                        , 
                            Illinois
                        , when he was about nine years old. He and a brother operated a grain mill and
                        elevator. History of 
                                Champaign County
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            
                   (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1878), 128.
            
         
         
         
            A Survey of Oral History Collections in Indiana
            
                    Randall W. Jehs
                    *
                
            Students of recent history are frequently handicapped by a lack of some of the source materials
                    available to their colleagues who research in earlier periods of history. Conversing by telephone
                    has substantially replaced the writing of confidential letters; the ubiquitous copying machine has
                    made some people wary of revealing their thoughts on paper lest unauthorized copies stray into
                    unknown hands; and the pace of modern life is such that it seems fewer people trouble to keep a
                    diary. The result is the loss of much personal information necessary for a better understanding of
                    historical events. Projects in oral history attempt to compensate to some degree for this loss by
                    using other means, usually tape-recorded interviews, to preserve individuals’ thoughts
                    and reminiscences. In responding to the questions put to him, the person interviewed is encouraged
                    to converse at length about events he has witnessed, events or movements in which he has
                    participated, and people he has known. It is the interviewer's task to guide the discussion
                    along profitable paths by asking intelligent questions, a responsibility which often requires a
                    great deal of advance preparation. After taping, the conversation is usually transcribed, edited,
                    and made available to scholars. However, the person interviewed may place any restriction he wishes
                    on the dissemination and use of the information he has given.
            The employment of oral history techniques has steadily increased since Allan Nevins organized the
                    first oral history project at 
                        Columbia
                     University in 1948. A national Oral History Association having over 700 individual and
                    institutional members holds an annual colloquium, and a directory published by the association lists
                    230 oral history projects in operation in 1971 with more being planned.1 Yet the
                    impressive growth of oral history during the last twenty years has not completely overcome
                    skepticism as to its value. Some historians, preferring to depend upon written sources, claim that
                    the information gained in an oral history interview may be tainted either by efforts of the
                    interviewee to cover up his mistakes and glorify his successes or by lapses of memory due to the
                    passing of years. Yet it must be conceded that diarists have not always committed the whole truth to
                    paper and that archives do hold letters 
                  
                     * Randall W. Jehs is a field agent for the Indiana Division,
                            Indiana State Library.
                  
                     1 Gary L. Shumway, comp., Oral History in the 
                                    United States
                                : A. Directory (
                                New York
                            , 1971).
               
                     containing false or misleading information. The only sure way
                    to test the value of oral history is to study and use it.
            In the fall of 1971 the Indiana State Library asked every library and known archival repository in
                    the state, including many business and private organizations engaged in preserving their own
                    histories, for information about the tape recordings in their possession. The responses to that
                    inquiry, from which the following listing was compiled, show that oral history is being practiced by
                    a variety of organizations scattered throughout Indiana. As a whole, the interviews that have been
                    collected are strongest in the fields of education and politics. Of the three largest collections in
                    the state—those at Indiana University, Purdue University, and the Indiana State
                    Library—the first two stress the histories of their institutions, while the state library
                    has spent considerable time interviewing political figures. The rapidly growing collection at 
                        Vincennes
                     University concentrates on persons in southwestern Indiana and southeastern Illinois
                    with emphasis on events during the Great Depression. The smaller libraries and historical societies,
                    as might be expected, are especially concerned with the histories of their own localities. Since
                    oral history lends itself to nearly every aspect of human endeavor, more work could well be done in
                    such areas as religion, labor, black history, the arts, and business. It should be noted that the
                    bulk of taped materials collected in Indiana seems to consist of passive recordings of speeches,
                    sermons, minutes of meetings, and the like, rather than planned oral history interviews. Such
                    materials are not included in the present listing but may be separately inventoried at a later date.
            The information given below for each taped interview is organized as follows: the name of the
                    interviewee, his background, a synopsis of the contents of the interview, the date of the taping,
                    the length of the transcript, and the name of the interviewer. In a few instances not all of this
                    information was available for a given tape. The absence of a transcript at the time of the survey is
                    indicated by the notation "In preparation" or "Not transcribed."
                    Since the use of many tapes and transcripts is restricted, researchers are strongly advised to
                    determine the status of the material they wish to examine before visiting a repository.
            
            
                    Oral History Collections in Indiana
                
            
               AMERICAN LEGION NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS. 700 North Pennsylvania Street (Post Office
                    Box 1055), 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46206
            HAUGHERTY, Hugh P. Legionnaire. Comments on speeches made by the past national
                    commander of the American Legion, Alvin M. Owsley of 
                  Dallas, Texas
               . 1971. 7pp.
                    Uvieja Good and Barbara Benson.
            MILLER, Thomas W. Legionnaire. Comments on speeches made by the past national
                    commander of the American Legion, Alvin M. Owsley of 
                  Dallas, Texas
               . 1971. 9pp.
                    Uvieja Good and Barbara Benson.
            ELI LILLY AND COMPANY. Lilly Center, 893 South Delaware Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 462061
            
            HENRY COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY. 614 South Fourteenth Street, 
                        New Castle
                    , Indiana 47362
            CALDWELL, Mary E. Curator of the Historical Museum. Description of the contents of
                    each of twelve rooms of the museum, names of articles, names of persons who presented articles.
                    1971. 25pp. Lydia Sellers.
            INDIANA STATE LIBRARY. 140 North Senate Avenue, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46204
            ADAIR, E. Ross. Lawyer, politician. Former Indiana congressman
                    (1951–1971) discusses his family, education, political career, state and national
                    figures, American foreign policy, Indiana politics, the 
                        United States
                     House of Representatives. 1971. 103pp. Randall W. Jehs.
            ASHWORTH, Frank A. Veteran. Homesteading in Kansas in the 1880s, his military tour
                    of duty in the 
                        Philippines
                    , 1908–1910. 1968. 29pp. Thomas Krasean.
            
               
                  1 For the purpose of preserving its own business history, Eli Lilly and
                        Company has collected about fifty taped interviews with retired employees from various divisions
                        of the organization. Requests to use this material are considered on an individual basis.
                        Inquiries should be addressed to Mrs. Helen Davidson at the above address.
            
            
            BRANIGIN, Roger D. Lawyer, politican. Former Indiana governor
                    (1965–1969) discusses his family history, education, legal and political career, Indiana
                    history and historiography, state and national political figures. 1971–1972. In
                    preparation. Randall W. Jehs.
            CHANEY, William M. Ku Klux Klansman. Grand Dragon of the Indiana Ku Klux Kan
                    discusses Klan organization and philosophy. 1971. 24pp. Randall W. Jehs.
            COOMER, Joe. Riverman. Longtime resident of 
                        Rome
                    , Indiana, recounts his experiences on the Ohio and Missouri rivers. 1969. In
                    preparation. Thomas Krasean.
            COQUILLARD, Mrs. Alexis. Homemaker. Granddaughter of a founder of 
                        South Bend
                     reminisces about that city in the early twentieth century. 1966. In preparation. Thomas
                    Krasean.
            CRAIG, George N. Lawyer, politician. Former Indiana governor
                    (1953–1957) reminisces about his early years, legal and political career, the American
                    Legion, Indiana politics, state and national figures. 1971. In preparation. Randall W. Jehs.
            FEIGHTNER, Harold C. Journalist. Longtime newspaperman discusses 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Indiana during 1920s, the Ku Klux Klan, state politics and politicans. 1968. 152pp.
                    Thomas Krasean and Richard Gemmecke.
            FENN, Bert. Riverman. Stories and tales of the Ohio River by
                    a man who has studied the river and its history. 1969. In preparation. Thomas Krasean, Robert 
                        Montgomery
                    , Al Hodge, Mike Westfall, and Lewis Wood.
            FISHER, Fannie Gascho. Homemaker. A 106 year old woman tells of growing up in 
                        Noblesville
                    , Indiana, in post Civil War years. 1969. 41pp. Thomas Krasean.
            GATES, Ralph F. Lawyer, politican. Former Indiana governor (1945–1949)
                    talks about his political career, the American Legion, state politics and politicans. 1971. In
                    preparation. Randall W. Jehs.
            GEISLER, Rudolph. Veteran. His military service in 
                        Cuba
                     and the 
                        Philippines
                     during and after the Spanish-American War. 1968. In preparation. Thomas Krasean.
            
            GILL, George. Businessman, public official. Former director of the federal-state
                    free employment service in 
                        Indianapolis
                     discusses the Depression and employment problems during the 1930s. 1969. 60pp. Thomas
                    Krasean and Richard Gemmecke.
            GOODMAN, Sarah Wolfe. Homemaker. A leader in 
                        Indianapolis
                     cultural affairs discusses the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Symphony Orchestra, development of the Jewish Community, various personalities in the
                    field of music. 1972. In preparation. Randall W. Jehs.
            HANDLEY, Harold W. Businessman, politican. Former Indiana governor
                    (1957–1961) discusses his early years, family, education, political career in the state
                    legislature, lieutenant governorship, governorship, state and national politics, political figures.
                    1971. 61pp. Randall W. Jehs.
            HANGARY, Clara E. Clubwoman. A life long resident of New 
                        Albany
                     discusses social life in that city at the turn of the century. 1969. In preparation.
                    Thomas Krasean.
            HOSKINS, Earl D. Veteran. A black man discusses his experiences as a member of the
                    1916 American expedition in 
                        Mexico
                    , army life, 
                        Indianapolis
                     during 1920s and the ensuing Depression, his religious and philosophic views. 1971. In
                    preparation. Randall W. Jehs.
            HOWARD, Mrs. James. Businesswoman. One of the last remaining important figures of
                    the steamboat era in Indiana discusses the history of the Howard Steamship Company of 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . 1969. In preparation. Thomas Krasean.
            HUBBARD, Mrs. Kin. Homemaker. Wife of the creator of Abe Martin talks about her
                    husband and his work, Will Rogers, James Whitcomb Riley. 1968. 29pp. Thomas Krasean.
            JENCKES, Virginia Ellis. Politician. Former Indiana congresswoman
                    (1933–1939) discusses flood control, her political career, Communism, state and national
                    figures. 1967. 88pp. Thomas Krasean.
            KYLE, Robert. Journalist. Newspaperman discusses his career, Indiana politics, the
                    Ku Klux Klan, the Scopes Trial, state and national figures. 1970. In preparation. John Newman.
            
            LEWIS, Olive Beldon. Public official. A leader of the women's suffrage
                    movement in Indiana discusses that movement, her service for the state, state political figures.
                    1969. 77pp. Thomas Krasean and Richard Gemmecke.
            LITTELL, Donald. Veteran. His military experiences in the 
                        Philippines
                     (1905–1908). 1968. In preparation. Thomas Krasean.
            LITTELL, Todd. Veteran. His military experiences during the Philippine
                    Insurrection (1900–1903). 1968. In preparation. Thomas Krasean.
            MILLER, James. Veteran, clergyman. His military service during the Philippine
                    Insurrection (1898–1901), family history, the Ku Klux Klan era in Indiana. 1968. 66pp.
                    Thomas Krasean.
            MYERS, Walter. Lawyer, politician. Former speaker of the Indiana House of
                    Representatives (1931) and 
                        United States
                     assistant postmaster general (1940–1953) recalls his early years, law
                    practice, political career, the American Legion, political figures including F#2 D. Roosevelt, Harry
                    S Truman, James A. Farley. 1970. In preparation. Randall W. Jehs.
            OREN, Wilson C. Veteran. His military service during the Philippine Insurrection
                    (1899–1901). 1967. 41pp. Thomas Krasean.
            PINKUS, Craig Eldon. Lawyer. Former executive director of the Indiana Civil
                    Liberties Union (1969–1971) discusses that organization, education, corrections systems,
                    and other topics. 1971. 118pp. Randall W. Jehs.
            PORTER, E. A. Physician. Member of the first graduating class of the Indiana
                    University School of Medicine (1908) recalls his long practice in 
                        Westport
                    , Indiana. 1968. In preparation. Thomas Krasean.
            ROBINSON, John P. Veteran. His service as a member of the Fourth 
                        United States
                     Infantry during the Philippine Insurrection. (1898-ca. 1901). 1968. 30pp. Thomas
                    Krasean.
            RUGENSTEIN, John C. Journalist. Longtime 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspaperman discusses his career. 1968. In preparation. Thomas Krasean.
            
            SHAKE, Curtis G. Judge. Former Indiana supreme court judge discusses his legal
                    career and service as a judge at the Nuremberg Trials (1947–1948). 1968. 82pp. Thomas
                    Krasean.
            SMITH, Asa J. Lawyer. 
                        Indianapolis
                     attorney talks about his legal career, his services as secretary to Senator Harry S.
                    New, as campaign manager for Senator James E. Watson, and as an attorney in the 1925 murder trial of
                    Ku Klux Klan Grand Dragon David C. Stephenson. 1969. 68pp. Thomas Krasean.
            TARKINGTON, Mrs. Booth. Homemaker. Wife of the Indiana author reminisces about her
                    husband. 1965. In preparation. Blanche Stillson.
            WELSH, Matthew E. Lawyer, politician. Former Indiana governor
                    (1961–1965) discusses his family, early life, education, legal and poitical career, the
                    Indiana legislature, state and national politics, political figures. 1970–1971. 170pp.
                    Randall W. Jehs.
            WILCOX, Ira F. Banker. New 
                        Albany
                     banker discusses his career, the effect of the Depression on his bank, other topics.
                    1969. In preparation. Thomas Krasean.
            WILLSON, John W. Veteran. His military service during the Boxer Rebellion in 
                        China
                     (1900) and the Philippine Insurrection (1900–1901). 1968. 66pp. Thomas
                    Krasean.
            WYATT, Robert H. Teacher. Former executive secretary of the Indiana State Teachers
                    Association discusses his service with that organization (1938–1971) and the National
                    Education Association (1963–1964), his early life, education, teaching career, lobbying,
                    state politics, figures in politics and education on the state and national levels. 1972. In
                    preparation. Randall W. Jehs.
            INDIANA UNIVERSITY. Lilly Library, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 474012
            
            
               
                  2 In addition to the interviews listed, Indiana University has also
                        interviewed the following people, but because the tapes are still in early stages of preparation
                        nothing more than the name of the interviewees can be supplied at this time: Ross Allen, Carl G.
                        Bachmann, Hugh Barnhart, James Baugbman, Frank A. Beach, Arlo E. Byrum, Dorothy Collins, George
                        W. Corner, William Dellenbach, Mrs. Frank K. Edmondson, Frank K. Edmondson, Joseph Enrietti,
                        Mrs. Joseph Enrietti, Frederick Exton, Edna Forster, Peter Fraenkel, Paul H. Gebhard, Kenneth J.
                        Good, B. Greenlee, Wayne L. Hays, John Hudson, Mrs. Ilenich, Paul G. Jasper, Walter Kitti, James
                        MacDonald, Clyde Martin, Wallace Martin, Frank C. Mathers, 
                            Lodi
                         Mihelic, Robert S. Morison, Harry Nichols,
            
            
            ALLEN, Frank. Educator. Graduate of Indiana University (1916), trustee of Indiana
                    University (1940–1955), and director emeritus of athletics discusses his association with
                    the university with emphasis on the athletic program. 1969. 22pp. Victoria Cuffel and William B.
                    Pickett.
            ANDERSON, Hanson and BAENHART, Dean L. Educator; Journalist.
                    Two 1911 graduates of Indiana University discuss their college years and their subsequent careers in
                    education and journalism. 1969. 41pp. Victoria Cuffel and William B. Pickett.
            BARNHART, Dean L. and GILL, George E. Journalist; Businessman,
                    public official. Two graduates of Indiana University (1911, 1912) discuss their college years with
                    emphasis on the founding of the Indiana University Student Union. 1970. 52pp. Thomas D. Clark, Kemp
                    Harshman, and Joseph Kosarko.
            BENJAMIN, Harry. Sexologist and geriatrician. His association with Dr. Alfred C.
                    Kinsey and the Institute for Sex Research. 1971. 22pp. James H. Jones.
            BILLINGS, Claude. Journalist. His journalistic career, Republican party politics
                    (1940–1960) with emphasis on William E. Jenner. 1971. In preparation. David Tudor.
            BLOUGH, Earl. Industrial chemist. His student years at Indiana University
                    (1895–1899), his association with the Aluminum Company of America, the history of
                    aluminum. 1971. 75pp. Thomas D. Clark.
            BLUHM, Maurice L. Lawyer, judge. Graduate of Indiana University (1913) discusses
                    his college days, Paul V. McNutt, Wendell L. Willkie. 1969. 34pp. Victoria Cuffel and William B.
                    Pickett.
            BOBBITT, Arch. Lawyer, politican. Former Indiana state Republican chairman
                    (1937–1941) discusses Indiana politics, Senator Homer E. Capehart, the 1938 Cornfield
                    Conference. 1969. 25pp. William B. Pickett.
            
               Ardith L. Phillips, Wardell B. Pomeroy, Virginia Prince, Glenn V. Ramsey, Eleanor Roehr, J.
                        Edward Roush, Edith B. Schuman, Wilbert Snow, R. V. Solitt, Alden Steck, John Stempel, Charles
                        Stetter, Charles P. Taft, Theodore W. Torrey, Mrs. Henry E. Wahl, Leon Wallace, Cecil Weathers,
                        Mrs. Cecil Weathers, Herman B Wells, Mrs. Henry L. Weltman, Mrs. Stuart Wilson, Mrs. Oscar O.
                        Winther, John Young, Edward H. Ziegner.
            
            
            BORDERS, Marion C. Lawyer. Childhood friend of Senator Homer E. Capehart recalls
                    their growing up together in 
                        Washington
                    , Indiana, Capehart's business and political career. 1969. In preparation.
                    William B. Pickett.
            BRADFIELD, Joseph L. No background information available. Indiana
                    University-Purdue University football rivalry, the 1903 Purdue train crash. 1969. 9pp. Thomas D.
                    Clark.
            BRICKER, John W. Lawyer, politician. Former 
                        United States
                     senator from Ohio discusses Senator Homer E. Capehart. 1971. In preparation. William B.
                    Pickett.
            BROKENBURR, Robert L. Lawyer, politician. His service in the Indiana State Senate
                    (1941–1947, 1953–1963) with emphasis on dealings with Senator William E.
                    Jenner. 1971. In preparation. David Tudor.
            BUTCHER, Joseph. Soldier. His student years at Indiana University
                    (1932–1936), his continuing association with the university as an alumnus. 1969. 28pp.
                    Victoria Cuffel and William B. Pickett.
            BYRNES, Robert Francis. Educator. Development of the Indiana University Department
                    of History, College of Arts and Sciences, and Graduate School (1956–1968). 1969. 41pp.
                    Thomas D. Clark.
            CAPEHART, Homer E. Businessman, politician. Former 
                        United States
                     senator from Indiana discusses his childhood, business career, Capehart Corporation
                    finances during the Depression, his early political career, World War II, the McCarthy Era, his
                    philosophy of life. 1969–1971. In preparation. William B. Pickett.
            CAPEHART Homer E., Jr. Lawyer. Son of Senator Homer E. Capehart discusses his
                    childhood and his father's early business and political careers. 1969. In preparation.
                    William B. Pickett.
            CAST, Alvin C. Businessman, teacher, politician. Former Indiana Republican state
                    chairman (1954–1956) discusses Republican party politics (1952–1960) with
                    emphasis on Senator William E. Jenner. 1971. In preparation. David Tudor.
            
            CHAMNESS, Ivy Leona. Editor. Her student years at Indiana University
                    (1902–1906), her association with the university as its publications editor. 1969. 19pp.
                    Thomas D. Clark.
            CLEVENGER, Zora. University administrator. His association with Indiana University
                    as a student (1900–1904) and as director of athletics (1923–1946). 1969. 12pp.
                    Thomas D. Clark.
            CLEVENGER, Zora. University administrator. His association with Indiana University
                    as a student (1900–1904) and as director of athletics (1923–1946). 1969. 30pp.
                    Victoria Cuffel and William B. Pickett.
            CLARK, Donald H. Public official, university administrator. Former Indiana state
                    budget director discusses the politics of the George N. Craig administration (1953–1957),
                    the legislature. 1971. In preparation. David Tudor.
            COLE, Ben. Journalist. 
                        Washington
                     correspondent for the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star discusses Senator Homer E. Capehart. 1969. In preparation. William B.
                    Pickett.
            CONRAD, Larry. Lawyer, politician. Campaign manager for Senator Birch Bayh in 1962
                    and 1968 discusses Bayh's campaign strategy, Senator Homer E. Capehart. 1969. In
                    preparation. William B. Pickett.
            CREIGHTON, Hobart. Farmer, politician. Republican candidate for governor in 1948
                    discusses his political career, the 1948 Republican state convention and campaign. 1971. In
                    preparation. David Tudor.
            DAVIDSON, Frank. Educator. His association with Indiana University as a student
                    (B.A., 1913; M.A., 1916) and as a member of the English department after 1920. 1969. 41pp. Thomas D.
                    Clark.
            DEAN, Everett S. Coach. Past president of Indiana University Alumni Association
                    discusses his college days (1917–1921), his association with the university as a member
                    of the athletic department (1924–1938), the alumni association. 1969. 25pp. Victoria
                    Cuffel and William B. Pickett.
            DEATON, W. R. Businessman. Former regional sales manager  for Capehart Corporation discusses in detail his association with
                    Senator Homer E. Capehart. 1969. In preparation. William B. Pickett.
            DONALDSON, Ray. Lawyer. His service as administrative assistant on the staff of
                    Senator Homer E. Capehart. 1969. In preparation. William B. Pickett.
            DOUGLAS, Paul H. Educator, politician. Former 
                        United States
                     senator from Illinois discusses Senator Homer E. Capehart. 1971. In preparation.
                    William B. Pickett.
            DUNN, Oscar. Businessman. His student days at Indiana University
                    (1932–1936). 1970. In preparation. William B. Pickett and Barbara E. Benson.
            DUSTIN, Thomas. Conservationist. Vice-president of the National Izaak Walton
                    League discusses the political struggle to create the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, with
                    emphasis on the role of Congressman J. Edward Roush. 1969. 31pp. Kathleen McKinzie.
            EGENROAD, Charles. Senatorial assistant. His service as administrative assistant
                    on the staff of Senator Homer E. Cape- hart. 1969. In preparation. William B. Pickett.
            ELLIOTT, Byron K. Businessman. Former president and chairman of the board of the
                    John 
                        Hancock
                     Life Insurance Company discusses his student days at Indiana University
                    (1917–1920), his association with the university as an alumnus. 1970. 40pp. Barbara E.
                    Benson and William B. Pickett.
            EWING, Oscar R. Lawyer, public official. His student days at Indiana University
                    (1906–1910), his position as federal security administrator (1947–1953), Harry
                    S Truman, Robert Taft. 1970. 34pp. Barbara E. Benson and William B. Pickett.
            FRANKLIN, Joseph A. University administrator. His association with Indiana
                    University as a student (A.B. 1927) and as a staff member thereafter, including service after 1948
                    as vice-president and treasurer. 1969. 18pp. Thomas D. Clark.
            GARRETT, William L. Coach. Former member of the Harlem Globetrotters recalls his
                    student days at Indiana University  (1947–1951) as a
                    black basketball player. 1970. In preparation. William B. Pickett and Barbara E. Benson.
            GATES, Ralph F. Lawyer, politican. Former Indiana state Republican chairman and
                    governor of Indiana (1945–1949) recalls the beginnings of Senator Homer E.
                    Capehart's political career. 1969. In preparation. William B. Pickett.
            HALLECK, Charles A. Lawyer, politician. Former Indiana congressman discusses his
                    years in congress (1935–1961), state and national politics, Wendell L. Willkie and the
                    election of 1940, Thomas E. Dewey and the election of 1948, Harry S Truman, Dwight D. Eisenhower,
                    Robert Taft, passage of the Taft-Hartley Act. 1969. In preparation. James T. Patterson.
            HASTINGS, John S. Judge. High school classmate of Homer E. Capehart and the man
                    who introduced Capehart when he announced as a candidate for the 
                        United States
                     Senate recalls the beginnings of Capehart's political career. 1970. In
                    preparation. Thomas D. Clark and Dorothy Collins.
            HILL, Patton J. Educator. His student days at Indiana University (A.B., 1920;
                    A.M., 1934), his association with the university as an alumnus, the Negro experience at the
                    university. 1969. 26pp. Victoria Cuffel and William B. Pickett.
            INGOLDSBY, John L., Jr. Lawyer. His association with Senator Homer E. Capehart.
                    1971. In preparation. William B. Pickett.
            JOHNSON, George A. Educator. His student days at Indiana University
                    (1911–1915), his association with the university as an alumnus, the Negro experience at
                    the university. 1969. 26pp. William B. Pickett.
            KIDD, Robert L. Businessman. Former chairman of the board of the Cities Service
                    Oil Company discusses his student days at Indiana University (1919–1923), his association
                    with the university as an alumnus. 1969. 9pp. Victoria Cuffel and William B. Pickett.
            KINSEY, Mrs. Alfred C. Faculty wife. Professor Kinsey's career. 1969.
                    26pp. Thomas D. Clark.
            KOHLMEIER, Mrs. Albert L. Faculty wife. 
                        Bloomington
                     and  Indiana University during the approximate
                    period 1912 to 1940. 1968. 27pp. Thomas D. Clark.
            KRIEG, Mr. and Mrs. William H. Lawyer; Homemaker. Campaign assistant for Senator
                    Homer E. Capehart (1950, 1956) and his wife recall their long friendship with Capehart. 1971. In
                    preparation. William B. Pickett.
            LINK, Geothe. Physician. His student days at Indiana University (B.A., 1896), work
                    with the Indiana University medical school, private practice in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . 1970. 42pp. Chris Perry, Kemp Harshman, and 
                        Kent
                     Christopher Owen.
            MACCLINTOCK, Lander. Educator. His association with Indiana
                    University as a member of the Department of French and Italian (1920–1960), Indiana
                    University President William Lowe Bryan.
            1968. 67pp. Oscar O. Winther and Thomas D. Clark.
            MAURER, Mary Rieman. Homemaker. Her association with Indiana University as a
                    student (1912–1916), trustee (1945–1963), and active alumna. 1969. 28pp.
                    Victoria Cuffel and William B. Pickett.
            MCNUTT, Ruth J. Secretary. Her association with Indiana
                    University, and her long service as President William Lowe Bryan's secretary. 1969. 32pp.
                    Thomas D. Clark.
            METTLER, Joe H. Businessman, politician. His service as Democratic party chairman
                    of the Fifth District of Indiana (1958–1968), state politics, Congressman J. Edward
                    Roush. 1969. 34pp. Kathleen McKinize.
            MILLER, Wilma. Secretary. Her association with Senator Homer E. Capehart as his
                    secretary, Capehart's term in the 
                        United States
                     Senate. 1969. In preparation. William B. Pickett.
            MILLIS, Frank T. Businessman, politician. Former Indiana state treasurer
                    (1944–1950) and state auditor (1952–1954) talks about the Indiana Republican
                    party, state politics, Senator William E. Jenner. 1971. 29pp. David Tudor.
            MOGGE, Mr. and Mrs. Arthur R. Businessman; Homemaker. Their student days at
                    Indiana University (1915–1920), their association with the university as alumni. 1969.
                    29pp. Victoria Cuffel and William B. Pickett.
            
            MUELLER, Kate. University administrator. Former dean of women at Indiana
                    University discusses her association with the university, Alfred C. Kinsey, Herman B Wells. 1971.
                    23pp. James H. Jones.
            NELSON, Alice. University administrator. Her association with Indiana University
                    as director of residence halls (1920–1965), development of student housing at the
                    university. 1969. 32pp. Thomas D. Clark.
            NORVELLE, Lee. Educator. His association with Indiana University as a member of
                    the Department of Speech and Theatre after 1921, William Lowe Bryan, development of theatre and
                    opera, formation of the Department of Speech and Theatre. 1970. 44pp. Thomas D. Clark.
            PAYNE, Fernandus. University administrator. Dean emeritus of the Indiana
                    University Graduate School discusses his association with the university after joining the faculty
                    in 1909, his education and background, the administration of William Lowe Bryan, Dr. Alfred C.
                    Kinsey as a teacher and researcher, the Graduate School. 1968. 85pp. Thomas D. Clark and Oscar O.
                    Winther.
            PAYNE, Fernandus. University administrator. Dean emeritus of the Indiana
                    University Graduate School discusses his association with Alfred C. Kinsey and the Kinsey Institute
                    for Sex Research. 1971. 20pp. James H. Jones.
            PEARSON, Mrs. Pat Capehart. Homemaker. Daughter of Homer E. Capehart recalls her
                    father as 
                        United States
                     senator. 1969. In preparation. William B. Pickett.
            PETERSON, J. Dwight. Businessman. Chairman of the board of City Securities
                    Corporation, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , discusses his student years at Indiana University (A.B., 1919), his association with
                    the university as an alumnus and as treasurer and director of the Indiana University Foundation.
                    1969. 31pp. Victoria Cuffel and William B. Pickett.
            PRICKETT, Alva L. University administrator. Dean emeritus of the Indiana
                    University School of Business discusses his association with the university after joining the
                    faculty in 1912, development of the School of Business. 1969. 31pp. Thomas D. Clark and Oscar O.
                    Winther.
            
            SELLMAN, Mrs. John. Teacher. Childhood memories of Senator Homer E. Capehart, the
                    1938 Cornfield Conference. 1969. 17pp. William B. Pickett.
            SPRINGER, H. Clark. Lawyer. Former Indiana Republican state chairman
                    (1946–1949) discusses state Republican party politics during the late 1940s with emphasis
                    on the 1948 Republican state convention. 1971. In preparation. David Tudor.
            STAHR, Elvis J. Public official, educator. President of the National Audubon
                    Society discusses his administration as president of Indiana University (1962–1968).
                    1968. 48pp. Thomas D. Clark.
            STRALK, William. Lawyer. His student days at Indiana University (B.A., 1915;
                    L.L.B., 1917), the value of his education in his career. 1970. In preparation. William B. Pickett
                    and Barbara E. Benson.
            STUART, James A. Journalist. Former editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star recalls his student days at Indiana University (1897–1901). 1970.
                    In preparation. William B. Pickett and Barbara E. Benson.
            SULZER, Elmer G. Educator. His association with Indiana University after joining
                    the Department of Radio and Television in 1952, comparisons between Indiana University and the
                    University of 
                        Kentucky
                    . 1968. In preparation. Thomas D. Clark.
            THOMPSON, Stith. Educator. His association with Indiana University as a faculty
                    member (1921–1955), the graduate school, the university's social life and
                    intellectual atmosphere. 1968. In preparation. Oscar O. Winther and Thomas D. Clark.
            THORNBURY, Wiliam D. Educator. His association with Indiana University after
                    joining the faculty of the geology department in 1928. 1969. In preparation. Thomas D. Clark.
            TUCKER, James M. Lawyer. Former Indiana secretary of state (1938–1942)
                    and candidate for 
                        United States
                     senator in the 1944 Republican state convention discusses that convention, the
                    rebuilding of the party, the spoils of victory. 1971. In preparation. David Tudor.
            
            VALENTINE, Kenneth F. Businessman. Former president of the American Fletcher
                    Corporation and former regional sales manager for the Capehart Corporation discusses his former
                    employer, Senator Homer E. Capehart. 1971. In preparation. William B. Pickett.
            VON TRESS, Edward. University administrator. His association
                    with Indiana University as a student (A.B., 1921), as an active alumnus, and as an executive of the
                    Indiana University Foundation. 1969. In preparation. Thomas D. Clark.
            WALLACE, Lisle. Businessman. Former administrative assistant to Senator William E.
                    Jenner discusses Jenner's career. 1971. In preparation. David Tudor.
            WARREN, Mrs. Winifred Merrill. Music teacher. Daughter of Winfred Merrill, former
                    dean of the Indiana University School of Music, discusses her father's career
                    (1919–1938), the university, the development of the School of Music. 1969. In
                    preparation. Thomas D. Clark.
            WEATHERWAX, Paul. Educator. His association with Indiana University since joining
                    the faculty of the botany department in 1915. 1969. In preparation. Thomas D. Clark.
            MARSHALL COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY. 317 West Monroe Street, 
                        Plymouth
                    , Indiana 46563
            GRUBE, Howard. Surveyor. Discussion of the location of a Pottawatomie Indian
                    village, other site information, the Menominee tribe. 1970. Not transcribed. Stanley L. Brown.
            NORTHERN INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY. 112 South 
                  Lafayette, South Bend
               ,
                    Indiana 46601
            ALLEN, Delia. Family and local history. 1970. Indexed, not transcribed. Olive
                    Carpenter.
            ANDERSON, Blanch. Family and local history. 1971, Indexed, not transcribed. Nancy
                    Hanley.
            BROWN, Mr. and Mrs. Albert. Family and local black history. 1969. Indexed, not
                    transcribed. Olive Carpenter.
            
            COQUILLARD, Mary Clarke. Family and local history, the family of her husband,
                    Alexis Coquillard, one of founding families of 
                        South Bend
                    . 1971. Indexed, not transcribed. Olive Carpenter.
            CZYZEWSKI, Francis. Family and local Polish history. 1967. Indexed, not
                    transcribed. Jerry Limbert.
            EBERHART, Rilla. Family and local history. 1971. Indexed, not transcribed. Olive
                    Carpenter.
            HILDEBRAND, Walter. Businessman. Interview made by family concerning family and
                    local history and the Hildebrand Supply Company. 1971. Indexed, not transcribed.
            HUBBARD, Noah. Discussion of the Garrett Smith family, one of the first black
                    families in 
                        South Bend
                    . 1970. Indexed, not transcribed. Olive Carpenter.
            INWOOD, Paul. Family and local history. 1971. Indexed, not transcribed. Olive
                    Carpenter.
            LOMAN, Marie Meyer. Family and local history. 1970. Indexed, not transcribed.
                    Olive Carpenter.
            MARKS, Juanita Witter. Family and local history. 1971. Indexed, not transcribed.
                    Olive Carpenter.
            PETERSON, Blanche Sumption. Sumption family and 
                        South Bend
                     history. 1971. Indexed, not transcribed. Olive Carpenter.
            POWELL, Farrow. Local black family history, 1969. Indexed, not transcribed. Olive
                    Carpenter.
            ROWE, Arthur B. Family and local history. 1971. Indexed, not transcribed. Olive
                    Carpenter.
            ZIETLER, Ethel and ZIETLER, Zora. Family and local history.
                    1971. Indexed, not transcribed. Maude Klingaman.
            OHIO COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY. Rural Route 2, Rising Sun, Indiana 47040
            BEDGOOD, Ray. Discusses a home in Rising Sun, Indiana. 1968. Not transcribed.
                    Russell G. Ryle.
            
            PURDUE UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES. West 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana 47907
            ANDREWS, Frederick N. Educator. Vice president for research and dean of the Purdue
                    University Graduate School, vice president and general manager of the Purdue Research Foundation
                    discusses the history and development of the university. Includes some autobiographical notes,
                    bibliography of his publications. 1970. 51pp. Robert B. Eckles.
            BROWN, Herbert C., Jr. Educator. Wetherill research professor of chemistry
                    discusses the history and development of Purdue University. 1970. In preparation. Robert B. Eckles.
            BUTZ, Earl L. Educator, public official. Former dean of continuing education and
                    former dean of agriculture at Purdue University, former 
                        United States
                     assistant secretary of agriculture, and present 
                        United States
                     secretary of agriculture discusses the history of the Purdue School of Agriculture, his
                    views on the growth of the 
                        United States
                     Department of Agriculture. 1970. 45pp. Robert B. Eckles.
            CORDELL, Richard A. Educator. Professor emeritus of English discusses the history
                    and development of Purdue University. 1970. In preparation. Robert B. Eckles.
            DAY, John S. Educator. Dean of the School of Industrial Management and Krannert
                    Graduate School of Industrial Administration at Purdue University discusses the history and
                    development of those schools. Includes autobiographical notes. 1970. 46pp. Robert B. Eckles.
            FONTAINE, William E. Educator. Herrick professor of mechanical engineering
                    discusses the history and development of Purdue University. 1970. In preparation. Robert B. Eckles.
            FREEHAFER, Lytle J. University administrator. Vice president and treasurer talks
                    about the financing of Purdue University, the university budget, the Indiana legislature, lobbying.
                    1970. 43pp. plus seven appendices. Robert B. Eckles.
            FREEMAN, Verne C. Educator. Associate dean of agriculture discusses the growth and
                    development of the Purdue University School of Agriculture. 1970. 108pp. including two appendices.
                    1970. Robert B. Eckles.
            
            HAAS, Felix. Educator. Dean of the School of Science discusses the history and
                    development of Purdue University. 1970. In preparation. Robert B. Eckles.
            HAWKINS, George A. Educator. Dean of engineering and former vice president for
                    academic affairs talks about the development of the Purdue University School of Engineering.
                    Includes autobiographical information. 1970. 81pp. including appendix. Robert B. Eckles.
            KOHLS, Richard L. Educator. Dean of agriculture discusses the history of the
                    Purdue University School of Agriculture and the organizational structure of the university as
                    reflected in the university code. 1970. 40pp. Robert B. Eckles.
            LAWSHE, Charles W. University administrator. Vice president for regional campus
                    administration discusses the history of the Purdue University Department of Psychology, development
                    of its regional campuses. 1970. 43pp. Robert B. Eekles.
            MACKEY, Guy J. University administrator. Director of the Division of
                    Intercollegiate and Intramural Athletics talks about the role of athletics in the history and
                    development of Purdue University. Includes autobiographical information. 1970. 25pp. Robert B.
                    Eckles.
            MALLETT, Donald R. University administrator. Vice president for student services
                    discusses the history and development of Purdue University. 1970. In preparation. Robert B. Eckles.
            MCBEE, Earl T. Educator. Shreve professor of industrial
                    chemistry and former head of the Department of Chemistry talks about the history and development of
                    Purdue University. 1970. In preparation. Robert B. Eckles.
            MORIARITY, John H. Librarian. Director of libraries and the audio-visual center
                    discusses the history and growth of the Purdue University Libraries. 1970. 49pp. Robert B. Eckles.
            OGLE, Marbury B., Jr. Educator. Dean of the School of Humanities, Social Science,
                    and Education discusses the history and development of Purdue University. 1970. In preparation.
                    Robert B. Eckles.
            
            PARKHURST, Nelson M. University administrator. Purdue University registrar
                    discusses the history and development of the university. 1970. In preparation. Robert B. Eckles.
            POTTER, Andrey A. Educator. Dean emeritus of the School of Engineering discusses
                    the history and growth of Purdue University, top level decision making, the university's
                    relationship to industry, research, and government. Two interviews: 1953. In preparation; 1969.
                    108pp. Robert B. Eckles.
            PURCELL, E.M. Educator. History and development of Purdue University. 1970. In
                    preparation. Robert B. Eckles.
            ROBERTS, MARCUS D. Educator. Director of the Purdue University
                    Office of Counseling Services discusses the growth of the School of Technology at the university.
                    1970. 37pp. Robert B. Eckles.
            ROBERTS, O.D. University administrator. Assistant vice president for student
                    services and dean of men discusses the history and development of Purdue University. 1970. In
                    preparation. Robert B. Eckles.
            SCHLEMAN, Helen B. University administrator. Director of the Span Plan, counselor,
                    and former dean of women discusses the history and development of Purdue University. 1970. In
                    preparation. Robert B. Eckles.
            SHREVE, R. Norris. Educator. Professor emeritus of chemical engineering and former
                    head of the School of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering discusses the history and development
                    of engineering in relation to the growth of Purdue University, Purdue's role in engineering
                    development in 
                        China
                    , particularly at Cheng Kung University and Taiwan College of Engineering. Includes
                    autobiographical notes. 1969. 151pp. plus associated documents including reports, certificates,
                    photographs. Robert B. Eckles.
            SMALLEY, John C. University administrator. Director of the university residence
                    halls and the Purdue Memorial Union discusses the history and development of Purdue University.
                    1970. In preparation. Robert B. Eckles.
            SOLBERG, Harry L. Educator. Associate dean emeritus of the schools of engineering
                    comments on the history and development  of the graduate
                    programs in engineering and the function of the Purdue Research Foundation in the growth of the
                    study of engineering at Purdue University. 1970. 55pp. plus a ten page article. Robert B. Eckles.
            STEWART, Robert B. University administrator. Purdue University vice president and
                    treasurer and Purdue Research Foundation vice president for special projects discusses the history
                    and development of both the university and the foundation. 1969. In preparation. Robert B. Eckles.
            TIFFIN, Joseph H. Educator. Professor of industrial psychology and education
                    comments on the history and the development of the study of psychology at Purdue University. 1970.
                    In preparation. Robert B. Eckles.
            VOLK, N#2 J. Educator. Professor emeritus of agronomy and director emeritus of the
                    agricultural experiment station discusses the history and development of the graduate program in
                    agronomy in relation to the growth of the study of agriculture at Purdue University. 1970. 55pp.
                    Robert B. Eckles.
            WEILER, Emanuel T. Educator. Krannert distinguished professor of management and
                    economics talks about the history and development of the Schools of Industrial Management and
                    Industrial Administration at Purdue University. 1970. In preparation. Robert B. Eckles.
            WHITE, Harland W. University administrator. Director of admissions discusses the
                    policies governing the admission of students and the relationship of those policies to the growth
                    and development of Purdue University. 1970. 47pp. Robert B. Eckles.
            WOODS, Kenneth B. Educator. Goss professor of engineering discusses the
                    development of the study of civil engineering at Purdue University. 1970. 200pp. Robert B. Eckles.
            ZUCROW, Maurice J. Educator. Professor emeritus of mechanical engineering and
                    Atkins professor of engineering discusses the history and development of the study of engineering at
                    Purdue University, including the university's jet propulsion laboratory. Includes
                    autobiographical notes. 1970. 37pp. Robert B. Eckles.
            
            SHELBYVILLE PUBLIC LIBRARY. 57 W. 
                  Broadway, Shelbyville
               , Indiana
                    46176
            DEPREZ, D. Wray. Businessman. 
                        Shelby County
                     politics and elections, the Indiana National Guard. 1965. Not transcribed. John
                    Wetnight.
            SMITH, Carey. Farmer. Knighthood Grove, a steamboat, nickelos, 
                        Shelby County
                    . 1969. Not transcribed. R.M. Renick and Jack Warble.
            WILSON, William "Gamey." Railroadman. Boxer Rebellion in 
                        China
                     (1900), subsequent army service in 
                  Philippines,
                            Shelby County
               . 1970. Not transcribed. Jack
                    Warble.
            VINCENNES UNIVERSITY. Lewis Library, 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana 47592
            BARR, Charles. Banker. The Ku Klux Klan, the effects of the Depression on the
                    banking business in 
                        Vincennes
                    . 1972. 60pp. Thomas Krasean.
            HAARTJE, Albert. Grocer. Grocery business in 
                        Vincennes
                     and the Depression. 1972. 64pp. Thomas Krasean.
            HEDGE, Mrs. Perry. Homemaker. Raising a family during the Depression. 1972. 85pp.
                    Thomas Krasean.
            SCHALLER, Carl. Banker. Economic problems in 
                        Vincennes
                     during the Depression. 1972. 36pp. Thomas Krasean.
            SIMON, Leo. Jeweler. The effects of the Depression on the jewelry business and the
                    local community. 1972. 55pp. Thomas Krasean.
            SHAKE, Curtis G. Judge. Former Indiana supreme court judge reminisces on various
                    topics. 1972. In preparation. Thomas Krasean.
            WABASH CARNEGIE PUBLIC LIBRARY, 
                        Wabash
                    , Indiana 46992
            SHOWALTEE, Homer T. Salesman, politician. Wabash reminiscences,  his experiences as a Depression and wartime mayor. 1971. In
                    preparation. George Dingledy.
            O'BRIEN, Herbert S. "Irish." Retired. Reminiscences of
                    people and events in Wabash at turn of the century, the Service Motor Truck Company. 1970 40pp.
                    George Dingledy.
            GOODLANDER, Sherman. Retired. The unveiling of the Frances Slocum monument (1900),
                    his work at the Wabash Water and Light Company, brushes with the Ku Klux Klan in 
                        Wabash County
                    . 1971. 9pp. George Dingledy.
            MILLER, Ross A. Farmer. His military service in the Spanish-American War (1898),
                    the Depression, the Ku Klux Klan in 
                        Wabash
                    . 1971. 39pp. George Dingledy.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Delaware Indians: A History. By C. A. Weslager. (
                        New Brunswick
                    : Rutgers University Press, 1972. Pp. xix, 546. Maps, illustrations, notes, appendices,
                    index. $17.50.)
            Nineteenth century critics of federal Indian policy often used the example of the Delaware Indians to
                    demonstrate the destructive effect of repeatedly removing tribes from one location to another.
                    Modern scholars often mention the dramatic decline of Delaware population before 1867 while the
                    Indians were being moved gradually from the Delaware Valley to Indian Territory, where they were
                    merged with the Cherokee and ceased to exist as an independent political entity. Yet despite this
                    interest and the obvious importance of the tribe in the colonial and early national periods,
                    Weslager's new book is the first modern history of the Delaware people.
            Although Weslager has attempted to develop an ethnohistorical account of the Delaware and does
                    describe their culture at the time of white contact, this is primarily a tribal history presented in
                    the general chronological framework of 
                        United States
                     history. It is not a well balanced survey. Occasionally he presents more background
                    material from 
                        United States
                     history than necessary, and, although he carries his story to the present, the emphasis
                    is on the early and best known period of the tribe's history, which also falls within the
                    area of Weslager's previous research. About two thirds of the text is devoted to the period
                    before 1783. This is unfortunate because, although the author indicates that an entire book could be
                    written about the 
                        Delaware
                    's sojourn in Indiana, only a chapter is devoted to this subject. Little
                    attention is given to the history of the Delaware in the twentieth century. Moreover, one might
                    debate the inclusion of an entire chapter on the Walam Olum, the wood or bark tablets that some
                    believe is a record of the 
                        Delaware
                    's past and others discount as a fake. Weslager believes they are authentic.
            Weslager writes with a loose, folksy style, and includes details that will be of interest to local
                    historians. He is careful to include precise geographical locations and to identify various 
                        Delaware
                    , a difficult task considering the variety of English spellings of Delaware words and
                    the fact that the English, Dutch, and Swedes had different ears for recording Indian names. In these
                    and other areas he has been assisted by Delaware informants. Attention to local details, however,
                    apparently prevented the author from giving fuller accounts of more important events.
            Portions of the history of the Delaware have been presented before and often in greater depth,
                    especially in Anthony F. C. Wallace's Teedyuskung, King of the Delawares
                    and 
                        Randolph
                    
                     Downes’ Council Fires on the Upper 
                            Ohio
                        . Although Weslager indicates the use of extensive manuscript collections, most
                    of the citations are from previously published primary and secondary works. It is most unfortunate
                    that he has chosen not to include a bibliography. As ethnohistory, it falls short of the high
                    standards set by Wallace or John Ewers; as tribal history, it does not match the quality of recent
                    tribal studies by historians such as Donald Berthrong, Arrell Gibson, or William Unrau. However, it
                    is the only modern history of the Delaware and will serve as a guide until a more balanced history
                    is written.
            
                    University of New 
                            Mexico
                        , Albuquerque
                
            Richard N. Ellis
         
         
            
               The Iroquois in the American Revolution. By Barbara Graymont. (
                        Syracuse
                    : 
                        Syracuse
                     University Press, 1972. Pp. x, 359. Maps, illustrations, appendices, notes,
                    bibliographical essay, index. $11.50.)
            The Iroquois were indeed an unfortunate people, who were forced to enter the Revolutionary War in
                    which they did not have the remotest interest. What made the Revolution so crucial for the Iroquois
                    was ironically not the losing side they chose but the great sufferings they had to go through. Even
                    pro-American Iroquois who sought American protection in Schenectady in 1780 experienced unusual
                    misery, suffering famine, cold, and disease. Physical devastation, a civil war, and the
                    disintegration of the confederation accelerated the eventual decline of Iroquoian power. Such is the
                    story Professor Graymont tells in great detail. In writing mainly a narrative history, she makes two
                    important contributions. First, the book explores the Iroquois’ political and military
                    activities during the Revolution as has never been done before. The author tells the story well
                    through such colorful figures as Sir William Johnson, Samuel Kirkland, Sir John Johnson, Philip
                    Schuyler, Cornplanter, Blacksnake, and, above all, her hero, Joseph Brant. Second and more
                    important, she fully examines the cultural dimension of the Iroquois, showing how native myth,
                    symbol, and tradition played a significant role in their dealings with the whites.
            When the Revolutionary War broke out, the Six Nations of the Iroquois confederacy were determined to
                    remain neutral and resisted pressures from both sides. Graymont points out that the
                    Iroquois’ ultimate reasons for supporting the English were not only their traditional
                    friendship with the British but generous supplies of British goods. Totally lacking in such
                    supplies, the Americans failed even to keep the natives neutral. Once the natives fought in the
                    battles of Fort Stanwix and Oriskany in the summer of 1777, their  commitment to the war fully regenerated itself because of the Indian revenge psychology. The
                    General John Sullivan expedition against the Six Nations in 1779, which succeeded in devastating a
                    number of the Iroquoian villages, did not achieve its objective of humbling the Indians and of
                    forcing them to sue for peace. Instead, it made the Indians determined to have their revenge upon
                    the Americans.
            Graymont explains the Iroquoian view about the treatment of prisoners, which horrified both Americans
                    and the British. The Indians regarded torture of captives as a religious rite. By the
                    prisoners’ pain and sufferings, the Indians believed they could remove the pain and
                    torment from the spirits of their war dead. But those captives who were adopted by the Indians were
                    treated with fairness and even deep affection. With equal feeling and understanding, the author
                    analyzes the fate of the Iroquois, who were doomed no matter which side they chose, as their lands
                    were gradually encroached upon by the whites. Graymont maintains that a British victory might have
                    postponed but would not have prevented their decline. For the pro-British Iroquois who migrated to
                    the Grand River region in 
                        Ontario
                    , the process was the same, only slower.
            Graymont has produced a well balanced and useful work, one which merits frequent citation. The
                    author's indiscriminate presentation of material, however, makes the reading somewhat
                    monotonous. Her enthusiasm for details leads her to neglect the larger context of problems. The
                    footnotes and bibliography, which do not apparently include some recent general works, also reflect
                    this weakness. Should not, for example, the loyalists’ remarkable success in winning
                    Iroquois support be conceived more broadly? What is the significance of the war with the
                    Six Nations, which is treated almost as a separate war in this book, in relation to the entire
                    war? The consideration of such questions could have added more value to this solid work.
            
                    University of 
                            Texas
                        , El Paso
                
            Yasuhide Kawashima
         
         
            
               A History of the National Intelligencer. By William E. Ames. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1972. Pp. xi, 376. Notes, bibliography, index. $11.95.)
            Few American newspapers have ever approximated the influence exerted by the 
                        Washington
                    
                    National Intelligencer during the first two thirds of the nineteenth century.
                    Founded at the national capital by Samuel Harrison Smith, the Intelligencer was
                    during most of its  distinguished career edited and published by
                    Joseph Gales, Jr., and his brother-in-law William Winston Seaton. These gentlemen devoted their
                    paper to politics in a broad sense, and in their hands it became a product of a very personal sort
                    of journalism. Expressions of their editorial opinions were frequent and normally forthright.
            Generally staunchly devoted to Jeffersonian Republicanism in its early years, the paper sided with
                    the National Republicans against the Jacksonians when new parties surfaced in the 1820s.
                    Nevertheless, it maintained an independence and consistency of editorial viewpoint which
                    occasionally found it disagreeing with friends or supporting opponents. At times it merely chose the
                    lesser of two evils, as in the 1840 presidential campaign when it advocated the election of Harrison
                    more out of dislike for Van Buren than from any fondness for "Old Tipp." Under
                    such circumstances the Intelligencer developed a character truly its own and many
                    read it as much for its opinions as for the information it published.
            A major contribution of the National Intelligencer was the extensive publication in
                    its columns of public documents concerning the operation of the federal government. The high
                    editorial standards employed in presenting the texts of documents was one of the paper's
                    hallmarks, and those standards were generally matched in attendant commentary which put the
                    documents in perspective. Newspapers throughout the country quoted the commentaries almost as
                    faithfully as they did the documents themselves.
            The National Intelligencer was in financial straits for most of its existence,
                    despite the large sums it took in as printer to the federal government. During a twenty-six year
                    period when 
                        Washington
                     newspapers almost monopolized federal printing contracts, the Intelligencer received at least $1,000,000 in revenue therefrom. This was in
                    addition to $650,000 Gales and Seaton received for the printing of the Annuals of Congress and the American State Papers before 1845, at which
                    time major portions of both series remained incomplete (p. 282). Notwithstanding this welcome
                    federal largess, the editors maintained their high degree of political independence.
            Ames has written an informative book about a newspaper whose story amply deserved the telling. His
                    account is well organized and interestingly presented, and the history of the Intelligencer is effectively interwoven with that of the country. The volume is based upon
                    substantial research, and many readers will be happy to find that the numerous citations are on the
                    same pages as the text to which they refer.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
                
            Donald F. Carmony
         
         
         
            
               Correspondence of James K. Polk. Volume II, 1833–1834. Edited by Herbert Weaver; Paul H. Bergeron, Associate Editor. (
                        Nashville
                    : Vanderbilt University Press, 1972. Pp. xxxvi, 645. End maps, illustrations, notes,
                    index. $15.00.)
            In the American political tradition persons holding elective office often have to contend with
                    recurring pressures. How best to serve constituents, the difficulty of providing for their families,
                    and ascending within their respective parties cause politicians anxiety during their careers. While
                    there is this common ground among elected officeholders, how they respond to these responsibilities
                    determines, in large measure, their individuality. These common political pressures and different
                    individual responses provide an excellent vista from which to study man and society.
            The pressures thrust upon Congressman James K. Polk and his responses can be viewed in the more than
                    800 letters in this volume. Editors Weaver and Bergeron indicate that of the 512 letters published
                    in full, over 100 represent family matters, over 100 are of a national political nature, while 20
                    are from Ephraim Beanland, the overseer of Polk's plantation in 
                        Tennessee
                    . Also included is the welter of correspondence relating to the needs and appeals of
                    Polk's constituents. Despite the editors’ gathering of Polk materials from more
                    than fifty depositories, the majority of the correspondence is from the Polk Papers, Manuscript
                    Division, Library of Congress.
            The controversy over the rechartering of the Second Bank of the 
                        United States
                     always has intrigued historians. The jacket of this work indicates that Polk served as 
                        Jackson
                    's floor leader in the House when the President decided to withhold federal
                    funds from the bank. Despite Polk's role in the effort, Amos Kendall was the thinker and
                    coordinator of 
                        Jackson
                    's attack on the bank. The correspondence of Polk reinforces what Lynn L.
                    Marshall stated in his article, "The Authorship of 
                        Jackson
                    's Bank Veto Message," Mississippi Valley Historical
                        Review, L (December, 1963), 466–77, that Kendall was the Jacksonian director in
                    the Bank War. The Tennessean took his cues from Kendall. In the volume there are just three letters
                    from 
                        Jackson
                     to Polk and in the first one 
                        Jackson
                     closes his letter, "I write in haste. Present me to Mrs. Poke and all the
                    family ..." (p. 106). Fortunately the Polk name fares better in the two subsequent letters.
            The editors and the publisher, Vanderbilt University Press, are to be congratulated for maintaining
                    the high standards set in the publication of Volume One. To be sure, the political star of Young
                    Hickory will shine brighter in later volumes.
            
                    National Archives, 
                            Washington
                        , D. C.
                
            George Chalou
         
         
         
            
               The 
                            St. Louis
                        -
                            San Francisco
                         Transcontinental Railroad: The Thirty-fifth Parallel Project,
                    1853–1890. By H. Craig Miner. (Lawrence: The University Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1972. Pp. viii, 236. Illustrations, maps, appendix, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $8.50.)
            Railfans observing the huge red and white diesel locomotives pulling Frisco freight trains on the
                    line from 
                        Memphis
                     to 
                        Kansas City
                     are probably aware that these trains are part of a transcontinental network of
                    railroads stretching from Florida to the Pacific Northwest. The present transcontinental
                    connections, however, are not those envisioned by the promoters of the predecessor lines that
                    provided the nucleus for today's Frisco. The original route was intended to make 
                        St. Louis
                     a terminal where a "snow free" line along the thirty-fifth parallel
                    from the Pacific would connect with carriers operating to the East. Though these plans are still
                    reflected in the corporate title, the Frisco as constructed became a regional carrier that is part
                    of a transcontinental system more by geographical accident than through the traffic patterns
                    designed by its promoters.
            The thirty-fifth parallel project was embodied in no less than five corporations in the period from
                    1853–1890. In the process of its evolution it enriched the purses of a few people at the
                    expense of many. Farmers, shopkeepers, widows, and various governmental units were all in one way or
                    another engaged in the financing—involvements that often led to the loss of savings and
                    tax funds. The only people who appeared to profit from the line were the attorneys who defended the
                    companies in court and lobbied for them in the state legislatures. At times the same lawyers were
                    involved in the bankruptcy proceedings of one predecessor road while simultaneously assisting in the
                    organization of a corporation to take over the defunct company's operations.
            The type and quality of railroad management varied considerably during the mania of expansion in the
                    latter half of the nineteenth century. Some operators treated their rail lines as serious business
                    operations that could be used to expand and develop the vast areas of the 
                        United States
                     to the mutual advantage of its citizens and its government. Others treated their
                    railroads solely as means of gaining an economic stranglehold on some unfortunate group. The
                    thirty-fifth parallel project experienced both types of management as it captured the attention of
                    such leading speculators of the period as Clovis P. Huntington and Jay Gould.
            This book does a commendable job of analyzing corporate resources in detailing the financial and
                    operational problems of the various companies. The use of current periodicals of the era has
                    enriched the narrative with much local flavor. A unique aspect of  Professor Miner's treatment is his discussion of the opposition of the Indians of the
                    Indian Territory, who had been promised that the land would be theirs until the waters ceased to
                    flow and the moon rose no more, to the granting of land for the railroad. Too few authors have given
                    recognition to the efforts minority groups have made in their own behalf throughout American
                    history.
            Miner's book provides a valuable insight into the early history of a rail line that
                    historians had previously ignored or discussed with a distinct lack of enthusiasm. Students of
                    railroad and financial history will find both value and enjoyment in it.
            
                    University of Northern 
                            Iowa
                        , Cedar Falls
                
            LaVerne W. Andreessen
         
         
            
               Teachers for the 
                            Prairie
                        : The University of Illinois and the Schools, 1868–1945. By Henry C.
                    Johnson, Jr., and Erwin V. Johanningmeier. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1972. Pp. xx, 508. Notes, tables, bibliography, index.
                    $15.00.)
            Few authors have been more successful in developing the institutional history of a particular aspect
                    of American higher education than Professors Johnson and Johanningmeier, whose work is a refinement
                    and extension of their recent doctoral dissertations. Teachers for the 
                            Prairie
                        
                is a penetrating study of the development of teacher education at the
                    University of Illinois to 1945. The description of the university's involvement with
                    teaching in the public schools of Illinois and the campus rivalry between the old, established
                    disciplines and the upstart known as pedagogy is both dramatic and insightful. Perhaps the
                    authors’ most unique contribution is their illuminating and largely successful attempt to
                    place their subject within the context of the larger problem of education in American culture. Their
                    efforts to relate the relevance of the subject to social trends and general cultural and
                    intellectual movements of the. time are commendable. The right questions are raised; and plausible,
                    if not completely authoritative, answers are provided.
            The authors’ essential conclusion is that throughout Illinois the university's
                    relations with the public schools and its imperial attitude toward other institutions of higher
                    education, particularly the normal schools, created a host of difficulties. In their words:
                    "The University, as the apex’ of the state's school system, did (and
                    cared to do) little to improve the ‘base.’ The schools were on the whole more
                    used than aided, let alone led" (p. 445). The university, they conclude, must accept some
                    blame for the fact that Illinois has lagged behind other states in both the quantity and quality of
                    public education at all levels in spite of its quantitatively superior status in wealth and numbers.
            
            Johnson and Johanningmeier make good use of the wealth of manuscript material dealing with their
                    subject in the University of Illinois archives. Beginning with their first chapter which concerns
                    nineteenth century Illinois schools as revealed in Charles Shamel's
                    "Diary" and concluding with a dramatic final chapter climaxed by the involuntary
                    retirement of Dean Thomas E. Brenner, the authors employ the personal papers of university
                    presidents, deans, and alumni to develop their essentially biographical approach to the subject.
                    While handled in a thoroughly competent fashion, this biographical treatment tends to preclude the
                    inclusion of other important aspects of the subject to which the authors only allude in passing.
                    Little attention is given to demographic factors, to political, legislative, and financial
                    developments, or to the role of private and parochial education in 
                        Illinois
                    —subjects which should be included in any definitive treatment of the
                    material. In short, the book is too much an internal study of the dean's office and not
                    enough a study of certain external factors bearing on the subject. In all fairness, however, it
                    should be noted that Johnson and Johanningmeier recognize these limitations. After carefully
                    delineating in the Preface what they intend to do, they then proceed to do it in a narrative that is
                    both well written and scholarly in nature.
            On occasion the book seems a bit wordy and even circuitous in its approach. Important and perceptive
                    points are occasionally buried in a plethora of biographical and institutional facts. But on balance
                    the book is a solid piece of historical research which should serve as a model for other
                    institutional histories in the field of American higher education. Teachers of the 
                            Prairie
                        
                evidences throughout a conceptual grasp of the subtleties of educational and
                    intellectual currents rare in works of this kind.
            
                    Indiana State University, 
                            Terre Haute
                        
               
                
            Herbert J. Rissler
         
         
            
               An Army for Empire: The 
                            United States
                         Army in the Spanish-American War. By Graham A. Cosmas. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of Missouri Press, 1971. Pp. 334. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $11.50.)
            The praise bestowed upon the military performance of the 
                        United States
                     in the Spanish-American War has been largely reserved for the activities of the navy
                    and for the personal gallantry of soldiers in the field. The War Department, on the contrary, has
                    been the persistent target of severe criticism. Its highest civilian and uniformed officials have
                    been charged with gross mismanagement, ineptitude, and even corruption. Indeed, they have been held
                    responsible for everything from defective strategy and obsolete 
                    weaponry to inadequate sanitation facilities and "embalmed beef" rations. Graham
                    A. Cosmas, the author of this impressive volume, contends that this traditional interpretation rests
                    largely upon the works of soldier-memoirists and newspaper correspondents who possessed little first
                    hand knowledge of the inner workings of the War Department or the pressures which influenced its
                    decisions and policies. Through extensive research in the voluminous files of the department,
                    especially those of the offices of the adjutant general and quartermaster general, Cosmas presents
                    "the War Department's story of the war" (p. 2), which substantially
                    modifies the view based upon the works of such field observers as Theodore Roosevelt and Richard
                    Harding Davis.
            Appropriately the first third of this volume is devoted to an analysis of developments in
                    organization and strategy which influenced the War Department during the twenty years before the 
                        
                            Maine
                        
                     exploded in Havana harbor. Despite repeated economy drives in Congress, the disruptive effects
                    of national guard lobbyists, and conflicts in the command system, the department in 1898 approached
                    the war with 
                        Spain
                     with competent if not brilliant professional soldiers in charge of its administrative
                    bureaus and with a "well worked-out plan" for the mobilization and employment of
                    the land forces. But as Cosmas points out, the department also entered the crisis with several
                    important weaknesses: the highest leadership—Secretary of War Russell A. Alger and
                    Commanding General Nelson A. Miles—left much to be desired in terms of ability and
                    character; supply stockpiles were inadequate; trained commanders and staffs for large forces were
                    not available; and the established theories of organization and strategy in the regular army ran
                    counter to the political, diplomatic, and naval realities of the developing conflict. Both army and
                    navy planners assumed that the political objective of a war with 
                        Spain
                     would be to assist the Cubans in driving out the Spaniards and in establishing an
                    independent nation. They therefore considered such a war primarily a naval problem with "no
                    major ground action" required of the army. But changes in the diplomatic situation and in
                    political objectives, as well as pressure from state militia organizations regarding a volunteer
                    army, forced the War Department to abandon its original plan and embark upon a wholly new course at
                    the last minute.
            In assessing the department's performance during the war, Cosmas carefully analyzes each
                    military decision regarding the raising and deploying of troops within the fluid political and
                    diplomatic context in which such decisions were made. The army, he insists, suffered from the
                    constantly changing demands imposed upon it by President William McKinley's vacillating
                    strategy and war aims. Without obscuring the errors committed by the War Department or  claiming for its officials virtues which they did not possess, Cosmas
                    argues convincingly that "the Army's wartime misfortunes resulted less from
                    fundamental mistakes in policy than from efforts to implement sound policies too rapidly with too
                    few trained men and with inadequate stockpiles of supplies" (pp. 3–4). Despite
                    all the charges of incompetence, he concludes, the hardworking, conscientious officials of the War
                    Department had by late 1898 solved most of the problems responsible for the "comedy of
                    blunders" enacted during the invasion of 
                        Cuba
                    . Largely through improvisation they developed an efficient military administration and
                    forged "an army of empire," providing a solid base for Alger's successor,
                    Elihu Root, to build a modern staff and command system.
            
               An Army for Empire is a highly significant contribution to the historical
                    literature on the American military experience. It has, in fact, all the qualities of a prize
                    winning work, both for its contents and for its format and design.
            
                    University of 
                            Arkansas
                        , Fayetteville
                
            Willard B. Gatewood, Jr.
         
         
            
               The Shadow of Slavery: Peonage in the South, 1901–1969. By Pete
                    Daniel. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1972. Pp. xii, 209. Notes, illustrations, critical essay
                    on authorities, index. $7.95.)
            Even as some southern Negroes sought to achieve personal security, civil rights, and political power
                    during Reconstruction, many black laborers were becoming mired in a system of debt known as peonage.
                    Regardless of its origins—whether it grew naturally out of antebellum slavery or whether
                    employers distorted customs and laws to create debt servitude—peonage was quietly
                    accepted by most southerners. For employers, it represented a way of controlling workers; for those
                    caught in its grip, it was a bewildering system which could not be escaped without the risk of
                    beatings, imprisonment, or perhaps even death.
            Professor Daniel's book is about this largely ignored form of twentieth century slavery. In
                    a series of case studies and histories, the author recreates the harsh and frightening world of
                    peonage. He reveals vividly how debt servitude denied numerous black workers the fundamental right
                    to move about and seek higher wages in an effort to escape from grinding debt and poverty.
            Daniel's study is also in part "the record of an American failure —the
                    inability of federal, state, and local law-enforcement officials to end peonage" (p. xi).
                    Though debt servitude was outlawed by federal statute in 1867, government officials moved timidly
                    against peonage and continually failed to stamp it out. In attempting to  explain this failure, Daniel observes: "Perhaps these men were
                    convinced that the progression of successful yet inexorable court cases signified that peonage was
                    dying out, or possibly they were traduced by the notion of American innocence that precluded slavery
                    by definition, or more likely they were simply blinded by institutional apathy" (p. xi). In
                    any event, those peonage cases that did go to court were frequently characterized by disappearing
                    witnesses and acquitted employers.
            The author notes that the federal Justice Department still receives numerous peonage complaints each
                    year, few of which are actually investigated. He maintains that peonage persists for several
                    reasons: racist traditions in the South, the apathy—and sometimes
                    corruption—of law enforcement officers, and the impotence of various government agencies
                    in prosecuting this particular violation of federal law.
            In preparing this study, Daniel has drawn extensively on the complaints, correspondence between local
                    federal attorneys and the attorney general, trial transcripts, clippings, briefs, and miscellaneous
                    material in the peonage collection of the 
                        United States
                     Department of Justice. Much information was derived from state and federal reports,
                    annotated codes, briefs and records of Supreme Court cases involving peonage, contemporary magazine
                    articles, and assorted manuscript collections. Utilizing such materials to the best advantage,
                    Daniel has produced a readable and informative work which contributes to an understanding of a
                    little known form of modern day slavery.
            
                    Illinois State University, Normal
                
            L. Moody Simms, Jr.
         
         
            
               The Origins of American Intervention in the First World War. By Ross Gregory.
                        The Norton Essays in American History. Edited by Harold M. Hyman. (
                        New York
                    : W. W. Norton & Company, Inc., 1971. Pp. xi, 162. Notes, bibliographic essay,
                    index. $6.95.)
            The extensive list of studies dealing with American intervention in the First World War has been
                    enhanced by Professor Gregory's small volume. Although he does not claim to present a great
                    deal of new information, the author, who has written the book primarily for students rather than
                    specialists, believes it is justified because it may shed light on how the 
                        United States
                     got to its present position in world affairs and where it is headed. What makes this
                    brief study especially worthwhile is Gregory's realization that American  policy did not take place in a vacuum. Decisions made by Sir Edward
                    Grey in 
                        London
                     and Bethmann Hollweg in Berlin affected decisions made in 
                        Washington
                     as he clearly demonstrates.
            Although the 
                        United States
                     did not enter the war until 1917, long before that time American policies had an impact
                    upon the conflict. Gregory submits that the timing of American entrance was significant and argues
                    that the course of the war would have been different if the 
                        United States
                     had entered at a different time or not at all. Gregory demonstrates that commerce
                    played a major role in gradually drawing the 
                        United States
                     into a web from which it could not extricate itself without choosing war against 
                        Germany
                    . Had the 
                        United States
                     severed all economic ties with Europe it might have been able to remain neutral, but
                    such a course would have been economically disasterous by 1916. The American desire to continue
                    commerce with the warring nations inevitably helped the allies who controlled the seas. Gregory
                    believes that Wilson and most Americans may have been suspicious of 
                        German
                     militarism even before the war, but that they were willing to tolerate 
                        German
                     brutality and "uncivilized" warfare (e.g., the burning of Louvain) as
                    long as it did not affect American interests. Submarine warfare was the main reason for
                    intervention, but if the 
                        United States
                     had not traded with the allies 
                        Germany
                     would have had no reason to use it. The problem with Americans, as Gregory points out,
                    was that they believed that they could have trade and peace too. They did not really understand that
                    commerce would lead to war.
            Gregory disagrees with "realist" scholars like George Kennan who suggest that since
                    the 
                        United States
                     was destined to enter the war it should have done so earlier. The author argues
                    correctly that Wilson, whom he treats sympathetically though judiciously, could not have accepted
                    such an assumption and that there was insufficient popular and congressional support for an earlier
                    entry. Gregory believes that Wilson's personality was exceptionally complex and should not
                    be overgeneralized. Throughout, Wilson appears as a man not fully aware of the power at his
                    disposal, struggling to avoid a dreaded war, irritated with Britain's arrogant handling of
                    American rights, enraged by 
                        Germany
                    's infringements on the seas and elsewhere. There is pathos in
                    Wilson's agony as he hoes a faltering, though generally pro-ally, neutral line and carries
                    on a tortured diplomacy searching for an honorable way out.
            An interesting bibliographic essay concludes this absorbing, concise study.
            
                    California State University, San Jose
                
            Aaron L. Goldman
         
         
         
            
               The Spearless Leader: Senator Borah and the Progressive Movement in the
                        1920's. By LeRoy Ashby. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1972. Pp. x, 325. Notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $10.00.)
            William E. Borah is among that small band of senators who have left their names etched on the
                    nation's memory. Noted for his courage and eloquence in defending unpopular causes, he
                    reached the peak of his prominence during the 1920s. It is with this period in Borah's
                    senatorial career that LeRoy Ashby deals.
            Opening with a splendid summary of recent thought on the nature of progressivism, Ashby analyzes
                    Borah's record and his relations with other progressives from the beginning of the Harding
                    administration through the election of 1928. Ashby's objective is to demonstrate, by
                    examining the Idaho senator's career, the internal causes of progressivism's
                    failure during the 1920s. He finds many of them. In program, Borah and the other progressive leaders
                    were unable to devise proposals that would both satisfy their rural, individualistic ideals and meet
                    the challenges of modern technology and big business. The progressives could condemn the evils of
                    American society, but they were often reluctant to demand the use of government power and funds to
                    cope with the nation's problems. As a group, they were unable to forge effective alliances
                    with urban liberal forces or even enduring ones among themselves. The progressives were suspicious
                    of power in the hands of others, even other progressives. Moreover, they were frequently distracted
                    by side issues such as prohibition and immigration restriction. They were seldom defenders of the
                    rights of racial minorities.
            Borah, the most prominent of the progressives after La Follette's death in 1925, is a case
                    in point. He was both reluctant to seize leadership and unwilling to accept it from others. A
                    magnificent orator and a skillful publicist, the Idaho senator too often substituted rhetoric for
                    deeds and dashed off on quixotic crusades. He was no organizer, was personally very much the loner,
                    and frequently wavered in his commitments. Moreover, he merchandised pre-World War I ideas in
                    response to the needs of the 1920s. Borah reflected, in brief, the prime shortcomings of
                    progressivism during that decade. He was a prima donna and he was rapidly becoming politically
                    obsolescent.
            In preparing this book, Ashby has used an impressively wide range of manuscripts, newspapers,
                    periodicals, and books. And he has generally used them well, although it is strange that while he
                    delved into fifty-five manuscript collections, he did not make use of materials in the National
                    Archives. One may question his summary treatment of state and local progressive movements. It is
                    also plain  that he knows considerably less about other American
                    political groups—especially their high degree of disunity during the
                    1920s—than he does about the progressives. Nevertheless, Ashby's volume is an
                    excellent and stimulating analysis of Borah and the problems of progressive leadership. It deserves
                    to be read not only by students of the 1920s and of progressivism but also by those interested in
                    the nature of politics in the 
                        United States
                    .
            
                    University of 
                            Kansas
                        , Lawrence
                
            Donald R. McCoy
         
         
            
               Toward the Scientific Study of History: Selected Essays of Lee Benson. By Lee
                    Benson. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : J. B. Lippincott Company, 1972. Pp. xi, 352. Notes, tables, diagrams, appendix,
                    indices. Clothbound, $8.75; paperbound, $3.95.)
            This is not a modest, humble book. In it, Lee Benson, professor of history at the University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , republishes seven of his essays from the years 1957 to 1971 and publishes for the
                    first time a long essay he completed for the book. The essays are arranged chronologically to
                    illustrate the development of his ideas and to suggest the influences that have affected it. He
                    obviously assumes that his work is important. It is. Benson is the most militant advocate in our day
                    of a scientific historiography. He assumes that history can and must be scientific, attempts to
                    demonstrate that it is not, and tries to explain and remedy this failure.
            The author develops a very negative appraisal of the historical profession. His targets include some
                    of the giants, such as Frederick 
                        Jackson
                     Turner, who, he argues, developed a myth rather than a thesis. His attack becomes quite
                    angry and extends to the profession's reward system. Benson is especially critical of
                    "Middle Period" historiography, the field he knows best. Arguing that it has
                    failed to supply generalized and useful knowledge, he focuses much of his attention on its failure
                    to explain the causation of the Civil War. He challenges suggestions that explaining the war is
                    "beyond Man's powers" and insists that it is only "beyond the
                    powers of men working within the confines of the established historiographic and social scientific
                    systems" (p. 307).
            Involved in Benson's critique is a protest against the large influence of
                    "ideological convictions" on the work of historians. He finds each ideology
                    equally harmful and its influence an obstacle to progress, but he does not believe that such
                    influence is unavoidable. Instead, it is a consequence of the present "historiographic
                    system." The system "permits scholars to impose their ideological convictions on
                    the past, unconstrained either by scientific methodology or by the  sanction of effective penalties if exposed as ideological warriors
                    masquerading in academic garb" (p. 287).
            While very critical of present practices, Benson is an optimist. He assumes that history can become
                    scientific, progressive, and useful. Proposals for change are scattered throughout the essays. They
                    include more systematic efforts to collect data; greater use of quantification; more systematic
                    attention to time, space, and rate dimensions and to problems of concept formation, theory building,
                    and index construction; the development of an adequate methodology for studying the formation,
                    distribution, and political impact of public opinion; the building of good theoretical and
                    analytical models; the rejection of the tradition of "proof by haphazard
                    quotation" (p. 220); the establishment of new organizational structures for research; and a
                    substantial increase in the financial resources devoted to it.
            One need not accept all of Benson's strictures and proposals to conclude that he is an
                    enormously valuable historian. Other members of the profession have accomplished more than he
                    suggests, and he has not demonstrated that the scientific school can produce history that is
                    superior to what we now have. Nevertheless, he and others like him deserve the opportunity to give
                    their claims a fair test.
            
                    University of 
                     Missouri, Columbia
                  
               
                
            Richard S. Kirkendall
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               History of the Indiana-Kentucky Synod of the Lutheran Church in America: Its
                        Development, Congregations, and Institutions. Edited by Henry G. Waltmann. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Central Publishing Company, Inc., 1971. Pp. xiii, 445. Notes, illustrations,
                    appendices, index. $5.95.) Though not a general historical account in the usual sense,
                    this volume gives considerable information concerning the origins and growth of the Lutheran Church
                    in America for the states of Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                    . It is a cooperative work. Willard D. Allbeck gives an overview of the development of
                    Lutheran synods in Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                    ; and Frederick M. Hanes discusses the history of the Weidner Institute, Mulberry Home,
                    and 
                        Louisville
                     Lutheran Home, all church sponsored agencies. Much the greater portion of the volume is
                    given to capsule accounts of more than two hundred church congregations, many more of them in
                    Indiana than in 
                        Kentucky
                    . The sketches of the individual churches, however, are the result of composite
                    authorship and naturally and admittedly are of uneven quality (p. xii).
            
               No Performances Today. ... By Warren A. Reeder, Jr. Imprint Series III. (
                        Hammond
                    , Ind.: North State Press, Inc., 1972. Pp. 137. Illustrations, maps, notes. Paperbound,
                    $4.25.) Reeder has produced a popular, well-illustrated, and quite readable account of a
                    train wreck of the Hagenbeck-Wallace Circus train at Ivanhoe (Tower), Indiana, which occurred on
                    June 22, 1918. In doing so he has also given interesting peeks into circus history. Copies are
                    available from the 
                        Hammond
                     Historical Society or the 
                        Hammond
                     Public Library.
            
               1971 Tri-State Trader Antique Guide to over 5,000 Listings of Antique Shops, Museums,
                        Historic Homes, Flea Markets and Auctions, Also Collectibles Dealers, In 
                            Illinois
                        , Indiana, 
                     Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, Tennessee
                   and 
                            Wisconsin
                        . (
                        Knightstown
                    , Ind.: Mayhill Publications, 1971. Pp. 112. Index, maps, illustrations. Paperbound,
                    $1.00.) The title of this item amply indicates its content, and a perusal of it affords
                    interesting information about the variety of antiques on the market and where they may be found. The
                    publication also suggests that a wealth of potential museum material which would help explain and
                    illustrate America's past remains scattered among numerous dealers and individual owners.
                    Copies of this booklet may be ordered from TST Antique Guides, P.O. Box 90, 
                        Knightstown
                    , Indiana 46148.
            
            
               
                  
                            Rush County
                        , 1822–1972: An Artists’ Notebook. Edited by Emy
                    Waggener. (
                        Rushville
                    , Ind.: The 
                        Rush County
                     Creative Arts Association, 1972. Pp. 48. Illustrations. Paperbound, $3.50.)
                    Published by the 
                        Rush County
                     Creative Arts Association, the 120 drawings by 
                        Rush County
                    , Indiana, artists which are featured in this volume are an unusually appropriate
                    byproduct of the celebration of the 
                        Rush County
                     sesquicentennial in 1972. The works of a number of artists are reproduced, and their
                    sketches include bridges, churches, homes, rural scenes, public buidings, products of local
                    craftsmen, and a variety of other items. Such a publication, combined with an exhibit of works of
                    local artists, could presumably be a worthy contribution to the sesquicentennial celebration of any
                    county—or city. Enjoyable and important as this publication is, its value would have been
                    enhanced if some pages had been added with concise biographical sketches and pictures (when
                    available) of the artists represented. Copies of this item may be obtained from the editor, Mrs. Emy
                    Waggener, Homer, Indiana 46146.
            
               The Girl Scout Man. By Cameron Parks. (
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Ind.: The author, 1970. Pp. v, 376. Map, illustrations. $5.95.) Cameron
                    Parks, "the Girl Scout Man," offers sketches and reminiscences revolving around
                    the association which he and his wife have had for about three decades with the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     area Girl Scout camp known as Camp Ella J. Logan. It thus records one sample of Girl
                    Scout activities during roughly the 1940s, 1950s, and 1960s. Copies of this volume may be purchased
                    from the author, 400 South Walsh Street, Garrett, Indiana 46738.
            
               An Architectural Study and Historical Review of Historic 
                            Centerville
                         Indiana (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Junior Historical Society, 1972. Pp. 37. Illustrations. Pamphlet,
                    $1.00.); Architecture Along the National Road in 
                            Knightstown
                        , Indiana (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Junior Historical Society, 1972. Pp. 34. Illustrations. Pamphlet,
                    $1.00.) These two booklets are additional items in the continuing series prepared by the
                    Indiana Junior Historical Society concerning the architecture of Indiana localities. They offer
                    prime examples of early Indiana towns not located on the Ohio or Wabash rivers
                    which have a varied and significant architectural heritage. Both 
                        Centerville
                     and 
                        Knightstown
                     are located on the National Road, which crosses Indiana via 
                  Richmond, Indianapolis
               , and 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and houses in these two towns illustrate the impetus which that road gave to the
                    development of Indiana's economy and culture in the pioneer era.
            
            
               History of the Oberlin-Wellington Rescue. Compiled by Jacob R. Shipherd. Reprint. (
                        New York
                    : Da Capo Press, 1972. Pp. viii, 280. $15.00.) This quaint and curious volume
                    is a reprint of the classic account of one of the most notorious fugitive slave cases in Ohio
                    history. In 1858 a crowd in the Western Reserve prevented two Kentucky men from carrying off a Negro
                    identified as an escaped slave. As a result, thirty-seven citizens of the towns of Oberlin and
                    Wellington were indicted in federal court for violating the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850. In turn, the 
                        Kentucky
                     "kidnappers" were indicted under the Ohio statute of 1857 which
                    provided that Negroes could not be removed from the state until the validity of a claim for their
                    service had been established in court. The trials were a cause of general excitement for several
                    months before both prosecutions were discontinued by mutual agreement of the two courts.
                    Shipherd's compilation of newspaper accounts, speeches, digests of court proceedings, and
                    other materials pertaining to the cases appeared shortly after the settlement. From these documents
                    the "gentle reader" is to "glean as best he can" (p. 3) what
                    transpired before and during the trials. It is clear from the thoroughly engaging nineteenth century
                    polemical style, however, that what is to be gleaned is a feeling of outrage at the Fugitive Slave
                    Act, which "enforces itself against the conscience and sense of justice which everywhere in
                    the North oppose it ..." (p. vii). Donald E. Baker, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The Cliff: America's First Great Copper Mine. By Donald Chaput. (
                        Kalamazoo
                    : Sequoia Press, 1971. Pp. 116. Illustrations, maps, notes, note on sources, index.
                    $12.00.) Chaput details the origin and development of the Cliff Mine on the Keweenaw
                    Peninsula of Lake Superior. This was, in his words, "the first successful copper mine in
                    the Americas, and over the decade she developed characteristics that would be copied on other mining
                    frontiers" (p. 9). Profusely illustrated and broadly researched, the volume is a concise,
                    informative, and fascinating account.
            
               American Axes: A Survey of Their Development and Their Makers. By Henry J.
                    Kauffman. (Brattleboro, Vt.: The Stephen Greene Press, 1972. Pp. 151. Illustrations, glossary,
                    bibliography, index. $12.50.) Almost as important as his rifle to a
                    frontiersman's survival was his axe. Kauffman's work "is an attempt to
                    focus attention by means of narration and photography on the history of the tool, with major
                    emphasis on its development in the 
                        United States
                     from the colonial era to the twentieth century" (p. 3). In his discussion of
                    axe makers and axe making the author goes far toward proving his thesis that in America the axe has
                    reached "its highest  functional development"
                    (p. 1). Excellent line drawings and photographs illustrate the art of construction and the
                    "uniqueness of certain indigenous forms as well as ... the versatility" of the axe
                    (p. 58). Also interesting and informative are a portfolio of collectors’ axes, a
                    directory of American axe makers since the eighteenth century, and notes on the care and use of
                    axes. It is to be hoped that this volume—touted as an American historical
                    "first"—will be followed by others on this and similar topics. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               
                  
                            Lincoln
                         on Black and White: A Documentary History. Edited by Arthur Zilversmit. The American History Research Series. Edited by William R. Taylor and Arthur
                    Zilversmit. (Belmont, Calif.: Wadsworth Publishing Company, Inc., 1971. Pp. 187. Notes, suggestions
                    for further research. Paperbound, $3.95.) Traditionally, history textbooks have presented
                    Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     as "The Great Emancipator"; at least one black historian has
                    described him as the "embodiment ... of ... a racist tradition" (p. [ix]); and
                    almost every shade of opinion between these two extremes has been expressed by one or more scholars.
                    In this collection of documents Zilversmit has assembled a varied selection of 
                        Lincoln
                    's writings, along with statements of his contemporaries, to help readers draw
                    their own conclusions about the President's attitudes toward slavery and race. Included are
                    personal letters to and from 
                        Lincoln
                    , speeches, debates, messages to Congress, editorials, and official proclamations from
                    the period 1837 to 1865. At one debate during his senatorial campaign in 1858 
                        Lincoln
                     told an audience: "I am not, nor ever have been in favor of bringing about in
                    any way the social and political equality of the white and black races ... and I will say in
                    addition to this that there is a physical difference between the white and black races which I
                    believe will for ever forbid the two races living together on terms of social and political
                    equality" (pp. 47–48). At another time, however, he stated: the Negro
                    "is not my equal in many respects—certainly not in color, perhaps not in moral
                    or intellectual endowment. But in the right to eat bread, without leave of anybody else, which his
                    own hand earns, he is my equal and the equal of Judge [Stephen
                    A.] Douglas and the equal of every living man" (p. 42). In
                    interpreting these and other statements and in determining whether 
                        Lincoln
                     was a racist, an abolitionist, neither, or both, readers may find a man more real and
                    worthy of reverance that the godlike figure of tradition. Lorna Lutes Sylvester,
                        Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Our Indiana Wards. By George W. Manypenny. New Foreward by Henry E. Fritz. Reprint. (
                        New York
                    : Da Capo Press, 1972.  Pp. xxxviii, 436, 7. Notes,
                    appendix. $12.50). Described on the book jacket as a classic of American Indian reform
                    literature, this volume —first published in 1880—discusses the relationship
                    between whites and Indians from their first contacts on the Atlantic coast through the 1870s.
                    Manypenny, commissioner of Indian affairs from 1853–1857 and chairman of the Sioux
                    Commission in 1876, believed "that from the time of earliest settlement in America, Indian
                    wars had been caused by the white man's rapacity ..." (p. xvii). His book records
                    the many broken treaties, successive removals, and uprootings during the nineteenth century,
                    dishonest government officials, destruction of the buffalo, and proposed extermination of
                    recalcitrant tribes. Manypenny opposed any attempt to transfer the Indian Bureau from the Department
                    of Interior back to the War Department and in Our Indian Wards set out to
                    illustrate from the historical record that the army was unsuited to take any part in Indian affairs.
                    He also suggested that the federal government adopt a policy of dealing with Indians as wards rather
                    than recognizing chiefs as spokesmen for quasi-independent nations and he proposed land-in-severalty
                    legislation to make homesteaders of Indians within reservations. The value of this reprinted volume
                    is underscored by the fact that Manypenny's plea in the 1880s is even more pertinent today:
                    "Is is not time that a change should take place? Is it not time that the
                    government and people of the 
                        United States
                     should resolve that justice and fair dealing shall be substituted for coldness, sordid
                    selfishness, and cruelty which the native race has endured in all the years of the past"
                    (p. xxiii-xxiv) ? Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The Book of Presidents. By Tim Taylor. (
                        New York
                    : Arno Press, 1972. Pp. vii, 703. Illustrations, appendices, index. $12.95.)
                    This volume affords a wealth of information, important and otherwise, about the thirty-seven
                    Presidents of the 
                        United States
                     from George 
                        Washington
                     to and including Richard Milhous Nixon. It is principally a reference work with an
                    abundance of biographical material and summary information about events and developments associated
                    with each President. In general, its content is arranged chronologically by categories, with a
                    separate chapter for each President.
            
                    Books Received
                
            
               The Secret of No Face (An Ireokwa Epic). By Chief Everett Parker and Oledoska
                    [Kenida Ryan]. ([Santa Clara]: Native American Publishing Company, 1972. Pp. 174. Illustrations,
                    glossary. Paperbound, $3.95.)
            
            
               The Pennsylvania Constitution of 1776: A Study in Revolutionary Democracy. By J.
                    Paul Selsam. Reprint. American Constitutional and Legal History. Edited by Leonard
                    W. Levy. (
                        New York
                    : Da Capo Press, 1971. Pp. x, 280. Notes, bibliography, index. $12.50.)
            
               The First Freedom. By Morris L. Ernst. Reprint. Civil Liberties in
                        American History. Edited by Leonard W. Levy. (
                        New York
                    : Da Capo Press, 1971. Pp. xiv, 316. Tables, partial bibliography, appendices, maps,
                    index. $12.95.)
            
               Fettered Freedom: Civil Liberties and the Slavery Controversy,
                    1830–1860. By Russel B. Nye. Illini Books edition. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1972. Pp. xii, 353. Notes, bibliography of sources,
                    index. Paperbound, $3.45.)
            
               The Old South: A Psychohistory. By Earl E. Thorpe. (Durham, N.C.: [Harrington
                    Publications], 1972. Pp. xii, 313. Notes, index. $8.75.)
            
               The Papers of Ulysses S. Grant. Volume IV, January 8-March 31,
                    1862. Edited by John Y. Simon. Assistant editor, Roger D. Bridges. (Carbondale: Southern
                    Illinois University Press, 1972. Pp. xxv, 520. Notes, maps, illustrations, index.
                    $15.00.)
            
               Black Utopia: Negro Communal Experiments in America. By William H. and Jane Pease.
                    Paperback edition. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1972. Pp. ix, 204. Notes, bibliography, index. Paperbound, $2.00.)
            
               The Challenge of BLACKNESS. By Lerone Bennett, Jr. (
                        Chicago
                    : Johnson Publishing Company, Inc., 1972. Pp. 312. Notes. $6.95.)
            
               The Making of the Black Revolutionaries: A Personal Account. By James Forman. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Company, 1972. Pp. xv, 568. Index. $12.50.)
            
               The Integrated Cookbook, or the Soul of Good Cooking. By Mary 
                        Jackson
                     and Lelia Wishart. (
                        Chicago
                    : Johnson Publishing Company, Inc., 1971. Pp. 135. Chart. Paperbound, $3.95.)
            
               Where Have All the Robots Gone? Worker Dissatisfaction in the
                        ‘70s. By Harold L. Sheppard and Neal Q. Herrick. (
                        New York
                    : The Free Press, 1972. Pp. xxxiv, 222. Notes, tables, appendices, index.
                    $7.95.)
            
            
               The New Deal and the Last Hurrah: 
                            Pittsburgh
                         Machine Politics. By Bruce M. Stave. ([
                        Pittsburgh
                    ]: University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1970. Pp. x, 262. Notes, tables, maps, appendices, bibliographic essay, index.
                    $8.95.)
            
               Law, Politics, and Birth Control. By C. Thomas Dienes. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1972. Pp. vii, 374. Notes, tables, appendices,
                    bibliography, index. $15.00.)
            
               400 Miles from Harlem: Courts, Crime, and Correction. By Max Wylie. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Company, 1972. Pp. 314. Notes, appendices, index. $6.95.)
            
               Revolutionary Justice: The Social and Political Theory of P.-J. Proudhon. By Robert
                    L. Hoffman. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of Illinois Press, 1972. Pp. xvii, 429. Notes, illustrations, bibliography,
                    index. $15.00.)
            
               Africa: History of a Continent. By Basil Davidson. Photographs by Werner Forman.
                    New Edition. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Company, 1972. Pp. 320. Illustrations, maps, brief guide to further
                    reading, index. $12.95.)
         
         
         
            Information Concerning Rex Stout Desired
            John J. McAleer, professor of English at 
                        Boston
                     College, is writing a biography of Rex Stout, Indiana novelist who was born in 
                        Noblesville
                     in 1886. He is interested in corresponding with all collectors and fanciers of
                    Stout's work. His address is Professor John J. McAleer, 121 Follen Road,
                            
                  Lexington, Massachusetts
                02173.
         
         
            Information Relating to Indiana Maps Desired
            David A. Cobb, map librarian at Indiana University, is compiling a carto-bibliography in which he
                    intends to include maps and atlases of Indiana which were drawn and published before 1900. He would
                    appreciate hearing from anyone with information regarding the early mapping history of Indiana,
                    whether it be a reference to a specific map or to a person or library with a good map collection. He
                    may be reached by writing Mr. David A. Cobb, Map Librarian, Department of Geography, Kirkwood Hall
                    307, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47401 or by telephoning 1–812–337–8651.
         
         
            Microfilm Edition of Indiana County Histories
            Research Publications, Inc., has announced completion of a 35mm microfilm edition of Indiana county
                    histories. Comprised of 262 such histories, the set is priced at $1,750 but if ordered by
                    January 15, 1973, may be obtained for $1,575. Each set includes an "author-short
                    title-reel index." Comparable editions of the county histories of Ohio and Wisconsin are
                    also available, and the microfilming of those of Illinois and Michigan is expected to be finished
                    during 1973. For further information about any of these editions, as well as about partial orders or
                    photocopies from the microfilm, write Research Publications, Inc., Box 3903, Amity Station,
                            
                  New Haven, Connecticut
                06525.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
