
      ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 105, Issue 4, pages 307-417. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:105+issue:4+year:2009&browseMode=source
    
      ----FULL TEXT----
        
          
               

               

               

               

               

               
          
          

               

               
                    
                         Abraham Lincoln gracing the cover of the Republican Song Book (Boston,1860). The title page reads:
                              "The Campaign of 1860, Republican Songs for the People, Original
                              and Selected, compiled by Thomas Drew." The songster includes
                              verses of 41 songs with notes as to which tunes apply, as well as the
                              text of the Republican Party Platform. The inset images of the log
                              cabin, the rail-splitter, and the flatboat pilot are key factors in
                              Lincoln's Hoosier past.


                         Courtesy of Allen County Public Library,
                                        Fort Wayne,
                                        Indiana


                    

                    
                    
                         Preserver of the Union, Great Emancipator, Martyred
                              President, and Hoosier, Abraham Lincoln at the start of his national
                              political career, 1846, daguerreotype attributed to Nicholas H.
                              Shepherd.
                          Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress
                    

                    


                    Losing Lincoln: A Call to Commemorative Action

                    GUEST EDITOR KEITH A. EREKSON






                    Four score and seven years ago, our Indiana fathers brought forth, within
                              this state, a new rivalry, conceived in necessity, and dedicated to
                              the proposition that neighboring states -- specifically
                                        Kentucky and
                                        Illinois -- were not
                              treating Hoosiers as equal. For nearly a century and a half,
                         Hoosiers have generally lost the struggle to claim Lincoln as a
                         representative of their state. Some of the triumphs are described in this
                         issue of the IMH -- the timely work of Indiana
                         lawyer Jesse Weik, the Lincoln Boyhood Home National Park in southern
                                   Indiana, a scattering of impressive statues
                         across the state, and the recent acquisition of an important archival
                         collection. However, in this introductory essay, I hope to demonstrate that
                         Hoosiers are in the midst of a war over Lincoln's memory, to chronicle
                                   Indiana's string of failures, and to
                         propose a new strategy for the battles ahead. I take Lincoln's
                                   Gettysburg Address as
                         my outline for this call to commemorative action.

                    Now, during the two-year bicentennial celebration of
                              Lincoln's birth, Americans are engaged in a great war.
                         During February 2009, commemoration of the two hundredth birthday of
                         Abraham Lincoln 
                              Keith A. Erekson is assistant professor of history at the
                                   University of Texas at El
                                        Paso and is currently writing a
                                   book about popular interest in Lincoln in the early twentieth
                                   century. Many of these ideas were presented at the Lilly Library,
                                   Indiana University Bloomington, on February 19, 2009.
                         
                          received coverage on C-SPAN, PBS, and
                         a host of national and local news outlets. Newly-inaugurated President
                         "A-Barack" Obama, who, during his campaign, drew parallels
                         between himself and Lincoln, received the lion's share of the
                         Lincolnian limelight by appearing with celebrities at the reopening of
                         Ford's Theater in Washington,
                              D.C.; with Congress in the Capitol Rotunda;
                         and with midwesterners in Springfield, Illinois.
                         On Lincoln's birthday, the sale of a document he had signed set an
                         auction record of 3.44 million dollars. A new poll of historians joined a
                         public poll in ranking Lincoln the greatest president in American
                              history.1
                    But while all of those events appeared to be celebrating Lincoln, I assert
                         that they were equally engaged in the act of claiming him. Take first the
                         exception which proves the rule. Early this year, the U.S. Postal Service
                         unveiled a set of four stamps commemorating Lincoln's birth (no matter
                         that he already appeared on fifty previous stamps, more than any other
                         person). The new stamps depict Lincoln as rail-splitter, lawyer,
                         politician, and president. Contrast these to the four new pennies
                         authorized by Congress and prepared by the U.S. Mint. The pennies appear to
                         celebrate Lincoln, but actually memorialize the places that wish to claim
                         him: Kentucky, Indiana,
                                   Illinois, and Washington, D.C. The "Lincoln
                         States" and the nation's capitol are the biggest -- but not the
                         only -- players in this war as several other states also made noise this year.
                         Idaho unleashed a major publicity campaign on the basis that Lincoln named
                         the territory in 1863, and Hawaii has
                         loudly trumpeted their possession of an 1862 letter from Lincoln to King
                         Kamehameha V. Arizona, Wyoming, Louisiana,
                         and even Alabama joined the throng, though
                                   Virginia placidly refused to celebrate.2
                    Only the Lincoln States and the capitol really possess a chance of winning
                         this war, and their struggle maps over the very calendar of commemorative
                         events planned by the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission -- a group of
                         fifteen congressmen, scholars, and significant 

                              
                                   1John O'Connor, "From Kids to
                                   Obama, Nation Marks Lincolns 200th," Associated Press,
                                   February 12, 2009; Ula Ilnytzky, "Lincoln 1864 Manuscript
                                   sets Record at NYC Auction," Associated
                                   Press, February 12, 2009.
                              2Kristen Wyatt, "Western States
                                   Remembering Abe Lincoln, too," Associated Press, February 7,
                                   2009; "Virginia Won't
                                   Celebrate Lincoln Bicentennial," Richmond
                                        Times-Dispatch, February 15, 2007. A North Carolina group recycles a
                                   long-discredited claim that Lincoln was born in the
                                             Tarheel
                                   State, "N.C. County Laying Claim to
                                   Lincoln's Birthplace," Fort Mill
                                             [South
                                        Carolina] Times, April 28, 2008.
                         
                          Lincolnianians appointed by President
                         Clinton to lead the national celebration.3 The
                         festivities were scheduled to kick off in Kentucky in
                         February 2008. President George W. Bush initially accepted the invitation
                         to speak, then backed out, offering his wife Laura as his replacement.
                         However, a severe ice storm prevented the First Lady and all of the other
                         distinguished guests from dropping in for the day. The celebration's
                         handlers gamely tried to spin the failed inauguration into a dramatic
                         historical reenactment of the cold February of 1809 when Lincoln was born,
                         but however similar the sleet, one parallel cannot be drawnunlike modern
                         fair-weather commemorators, Mother Lincoln did not yield in the face of
                         Mother Nature. The Commonwealth of Kentucky
                         raised ten million dollars -- far more than any other state or even the
                         national commission -- and sponsored a Lincoln-themed "History
                         Mobile" in a 45-foot tractor-trailer, a 14-minute DVD for schools, and
                         a heroic new statue on the Louisville waterfront.4
                    In May 2008, the spotlight shifted to Indiana for
                         a Mother's Day ceremony near the grave of Nancy Hanks Lincoln. Thick
                         in a re-election campaign fight, Governor Mitch Daniels was a late addition
                         to the program. Two weeks before the ceremony, the governor agreed to
                         attend and made a brief appearance in southern Indiana. Judging from coverage on the
                         state's official website, his words were little noted and
                              not long remembered. However, he did redeem himself earlier this
                         year by explaining to readers of Newsweek magazine that
                         Lincoln indeed lived in a log cabin in Indiana
                         (though he avoided the fact that the state has since lost it).5 The Hoosier state overall made a splash in the
                         national news in February, as reporters noted the formation of a new
                         Lincoln association, a state commission, gatherings at the statehouse and
                         at Lincoln's boyhood home, a scout camp, a tree planting, the visits
                         of five hundred lawyers and judges to school classrooms, the reenactment of
                         Lincoln's 1828 flatboat trip, and the recipe to Lincoln's
                         favorite cake.6



                    
                         3The commission's official website is
                              www.lincoln200.gov.
                         4See www.kylincoln.org.
                         5Mitch Daniels, "Where Lincoln Really
                              Slept," Newsweek, February 9, 2009, responded
                              to Christopher Hitchens, "The Man Who Made Us Whole," Newsweek, January 19, 2009, where Hitchens claimed
                              that Lincoln "never really lived" in a log cabin. Daniels
                              said he went "back to the books for a triple check," and
                              confirmed that scholars and Lincoln himself called his
                                        Indiana home a "log
                              cabin."
                         6See http://www.in.gov/lincoln/.
                    

                    


                    By placing Kentucky and Indiana on the calendar in 2008, the national
                         commission ensured that they would be out of the way in 2009, when the
                         attention could rightfully settle on Illinois
                         and Washington,
                              D.C. In Springfield, the Abraham Lincoln
                         Presidential Library hosted a string of events, schoolchildren worked to
                         set a record for the largest number of people simultaneously reading the
                                   Gettysburg Address, and
                         President Obama spoke at the Abraham Lincoln Association dinner. In the
                         capitol, the commission joined with the History Channel to host a National
                         Teach-In on Lincoln, a tribute to Marian Anderson at the Lincoln Memorial,
                         various exhibits, and commemorative events.7 The
                         commission then released Lincoln to his global admirers at an international
                         conference in Oxford, England, in
                         July 2009.

                    Having sketched in some detail the current developments in the conflict, I
                         want now to show that the war has been long underway. Indeed, the very
                         state of Indiana forms a great
                              battlefield of that war. Since the late nineteenth century, the
                                   Hoosier state has participated in numerous
                         engagements and come away with a record less than glorious.
                    Almost immediately after Lincoln's death biographers took up the task of
                         writing his life. Two rhetorical devices conspired to leave
                                   Indiana behind from the beginning. First,
                         in the aftermath of the Civil War, biographers saw Lincoln as a symbol of
                         reconciliation and emphasized the fact that the Illinois lawyer had been born in
                                   Kentucky. In the Great Emancipator, the
                         Savior of the Union, and the charitable chief, biographers found a human
                         link between North and South, silently omitting Lincoln's
                                   Indiana intermission. Second, and even more
                         damaging to Indiana, biographers also employed the
                         rhetorical device of contrast to emphasize Lincoln's presidential
                         greatness in spite of his humble origins. As Lincoln rose in public
                         estimation over the years, his youth sunk from the "extreme humility
                         of border life" noted in an 1866 biography to the "stagnant,
                         putrid pool" of William Herndon and Jesse Weik's 1889
                         characterization. Another writer distinguished Lincoln from his Hoosier
                         neighbors with an unsavory metaphor designed to touch both the eyes and
                         nose: Lincoln was a "diamond glowing on the [Indiana] dunghill."8


                    
                         7See http://www.lincoln200.net/.
                         8Josiah Holland, Life of Abraham
                                   Lincoln (Springfield, Mass., 1866); William H. Herndon and
                              Jesse W Weik, Herndon's Lincoln, edited by
                              Douglas L. Wilson and Rodney 0. Davis (Urbana, Ill., 2006), 4; Chauncey Black to Ward Hill
                              Lamon, cited in Benjamin Thomas, Portrait for Posterity:
                                   Lincoln and His Biographers (New
                                        Brunswick, N.J., 1947), 36-37.
                    


                    

                    Within a decade after Lincoln's death, the monumental phase of the war
                         began. In 1874, as Indiana  sat by the wayside, a
                         private group acting with state funds erected a large monument over
                         Lincoln's grave in Springfield. Two years later,
                                   Washington,
                              D.C. entered the fray by dedicating the
                         Freedman's Monument. Contemporaneous Hoosiers complained that no one
                         had marked or maintained the grave of Lincoln's mother, but few in the
                         nineteenth century showed any inclination to act or to spend money.
                    Collectors soon began to horde Lincoln manuscripts, artifacts, and print
                         materials. In time, big money players entered the game and the "Big
                         5" plus one out-purchased all the rest. Upon the deaths of the
                         collectors in the early twentieth century, institutions scrambled to pick
                         up the prized pieces. Two collections -- those of William H. Lambert and John
                         E. Burton -- were sold at auction. The Huntington Library snatched up Judd
                         Stewart's collection and Brown University obtained that of Charles W.
                         McClellan. In perhaps Indiana 's best
                         performance, two of the state's institutions came up big when it
                         really mattered. The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company, headquartered
                         in Fort Wayne, had long used
                         Lincoln's name and in the 1920s decided to give something back to the
                         legacy. The directors hired preacher Louis Warren to oversee a new research
                         library. Warren, whose role in promoting Lincoln statuary is described
                         later in this issue, successfully wooed Judge Daniel Fish and landed his
                         substantial collection. At the same time, the Lilly Library out-schmoozed
                         and out-solicited  libraries to win the collection of
                         Joseph B. Oakleaf.9
                    Though seen as a grand coup in the 1930s, both collections have generally
                         suffered in Indiana . The Lilly Library presently has
                         no Lincoln curator and has not actively sought to expand its Lincoln
                         holdings. Warren and his successors developed the Fort
                                   Wayne collection until the parent
                         company decided to close first the library and finally the museum. In an
                         unscheduled part of Lincoln's bicentennial celebration, 
                              9On the day the collection opened, library
                                   officials offered an olive branch to Paul Angle, a man highly
                                   involved in  history institutions. For
                                   the most part Angle played the role of gracious loser, commenting
                                   that "in Indiana University, a great institution of
                                   learning, the Oakleaf collection has found as appropriate a home
                                   as anyone could wish." However, he added at the very end of
                                   his talk, "Only with my own state was Abraham Lincoln more
                                   intimately associated than with Indiana
                                        ," and his final words point out
                                   that Oakleaf, too, was also a resident of . Paul Angle, "The Lincoln
                                   Collector," Indiana Magazine of History,
                                   39 (June 1943), 133- 38.
                         
                         the collection came up for grabs last
                         year. As a result of a process outlined by a roundtable in this issue, the
                         collection will stay in Indiana . The decision was
                         announced last December, but only time will tell what Hoosiers will do with
                         this victory.10
                    The inter-state competition that grew among collectors also developed among
                         historic preservationists. By 1909, having grown more Confederate than in
                         wartime, Kentucky wanted nothing to do with
                         Lincoln's birthplace so a national Lincoln Farm Association -- with folks
                         like Mark Twain, Ida Tarbell, and Cardinal James Gibbons on the board of
                         directors -- purchased the property. Acting in the sprit of the age, the
                         association commissioned a Greek temple to encase what the National Park
                         Service now calls a "symbolic cabin" (NPS jargon for
                         "fake"). In Washington,
                              D.C., another Greek temple, erected in 1922,
                         placed Lincoln on a throne in the new Lincoln Memorial, and Lincoln's
                         only surviving son donated the president's personal papers to the
                         Library of Congress. In Illinois a new generation of
                         collectors formed a commemorative Abraham Lincoln Association, the Lincoln
                         Home in Springfield became a
                         museum, and the state marked a Heritage Trail during World War I and, in
                         the 1930s, began to reconstruct Lincoln's New
                                   Salem.
                    Indiana
                               remained in a state of general malaise. In 1879,
                         one of the Studebaker brothers placed a tombstone somewhere near the spot
                         where Lincoln's mother must have been buried, but the property
                         remained subject to confused titles and a lack of maintenance. Southern
                                   Indiana  residents created a historical
                         society and began marking local points of interest, but the state remained
                         officially uninterested until the Klan forced its hand. After the state had
                         purged Klansmen from state offices, Hoosiers looked around for
                         something -- anything -- to help polish the state's image and the governor
                         discovered Lincoln. Following the model used nationally to save
                         Lincoln's birthplace, Governor Ed Jackson pulled together an all-star
                         fundraising team that included the Ball family of Muncie, former senator Albert Beveridge,
                         Will Hays of Hollywood fame, Indiana University president William Bryan and
                         Paul McNutt from Bloomington, and
                         writers George Ade, Meredith Nicholson, and Booth Tarkington. In the 1920s,
                         this was the equivalent of tapping Mitch Daniels, Evan Bayh, Peyton
                         Manning, the Lilly family, Milan basketball star Bobby Plump, and possibly
                         even Michael Jackson. Any Hoosier who 
                              
                                   10"State Museum Wins Lincoln
                                   Artifacts," WISH-TV, December 12,
                                   2008.
                         
                         was any Hoosier got involved -- and they
                         failed to raise the two million dollars necessary to purchase and mark the
                         place of Lincoln's boyhood. The state transferred the project to the
                         Department of Conservation where director Richard Lieber maintained it
                         along with Turkey
                              Run and other state parks.11 In perhaps
                         the greatest of Indiana 's Lincolnian
                         ironies, the Hoosier conservator replanted all of the trees that Lincoln
                         had cut down during his fourteen years in Indiana . An
                         article by Mike Capps, found later in this issue, traces the development of
                         the site before and after its transfer to the National Park Service in
                         1962.
                    Finally, the war shifted to the field of tourism. In the 1920s, petroleum
                         companies created road maps to Lincoln sites and their own gas stations.
                              National Geographic ran a cover story of the
                         emerging "Lincoln Route" through Kentucky,
                                   Indiana, and Illinois in the 1930s. Beginning in 1954,
                                   Illinois included the slogan "Land of
                         Lincoln" on its license plates and generally sealed the victory,
                         leaving Indiana as the "forgotten stepchild of
                         the Trail."12 In April 2008, Johnny-come-lately
                                   Indiana announced a Lincoln license plate.
                         Like the "In God We Trust" plate, the Lincoln plate was free; it
                         has not, however, generated anywhere near the ruckus as the apparently
                         widespread fear of Christian conspiracy. In fact, few Hoosiers even
                         noticed. In February 2009, a letter to the editor in the Indianapolis Star actually called for a Lincoln plate -- so at
                         least one Hoosier and the state's largest newspaper remain unaware of
                                   Indiana's Lincoln license plate.13
                    Thus, for the past one hundred years, Indiana has
                         been late to collect, to commemorate, and to cash in on Lincoln. The state
                         has been beaten by Illinois, out-maneuvered by
                                   Kentucky, and largely ignored by the
                         nation. As one writer in the Chicago Tribune put it on
                         the eve of Lincoln's birthday, "Indiana gets
                         no respect when it comes to Abraham Lincoln."14


                    
                         11See Jill York O'Bright, "There I Grew Up": A History of the Administration of
                                   Abraham Lincoln's Boyhood Home ([Washington, D.C.:], 1987),
                              http://www.nps.gov/libo/adhi/adhi.htm.
                         12Andrew Ferguson, Land of Lincoln:
                                   Adventures in Abe's America (New
                                        York, 2007), 232.
                         13See Rita Hupp, "New Idea, Old Verity;
                              Lincoln as Plate Fixture," Indianapolis Star,
                              February 12, 2009. What makes the situation even sadder is that the
                              paper had promoted the plates less than a year earlier, "New
                              Plate Touts Ties to Lincoln," Indianapolis
                              Star, March 5, 2008. For a photographic history of
                                        Illinois license plates
                              see http://www.cyberdriveillinois.com/
                              special/plate_history/start_history.html.
                         14Rick Callahan, "Indiana Working to Bolster its Lincoln
                              Legacy," Chicago Tribune, February 11,
                              2009.
                    

                    



                    My closing assertion is that the fault for this predicament lies with
                         Hoosiers themselves. For over a century we have failed to make a solid
                         case. We can chant "Lincoln was a Hoosier" and
                                   "Indiana made Lincoln and
                         Lincoln made Illinois!" all we
                              want.15 But until we provide the data to back it
                         up, our greatest defenders of Indiana's Lincoln -- the head of our state
                         bicentennial commission, our representative on the national bicentennial
                         commission, the NPS staff in southern Indiana, and
                         Scott Sander of WISH-TV -- are left to make only pallid, vague claims about
                                   Indiana being "formative,"
                         "significant," or "critical."16 I
                         have no personal stake in this fight -- I sit on no state advisory boards or
                         commissions and I earn no money from state tourism -- but I have grown fond of
                         watching the commemorative fracas. And the battle will only continue with
                         the upcoming celebrations of the Civil War Sesquicentennial (2011-2015) and
                         the Indiana statehood bicentennial (2016). So
                         in closing, I will offer my own plea for Hoosiers to be
                              dedicated here to the unfinished work which they have, thus far,
                              somewhat half-heartedly and often too-tardily carried on.
                    Prior efforts to claim Lincoln for Indiana have
                         focused on linking external elements of Lincoln's adulthood with items
                         in his Indiana youth. For example,
                                   Indiana was significant, many argued,
                         because future lawyer Lincoln read a law book while he lived there (the
                         very book is owned by the Lilly Library). To take another: when the future
                         emancipator made a flatboat trip from Rockport to New
                                   Orleans in 1828, he witnessed slavery
                         firsthand and promised to end it given the chance. But such claims simply
                         do not hold weight. The supposed Lincoln promise to end slavery traces to a
                         witness not even present and has been discredited for over a century. The
                         book-reading argument falls 
                              15Chief Justice Randall Shepard reported
                                   that this was a favorite phrase of former Indiana Governor Otis Bowen,
                                   reported in ibid.
                              16Connie Nass (head of Indiana's bicentennial
                                   commission and former state auditor): "Those are the
                                   formative years when your moral character and values are
                                   established, so we certainly have a lot to be proud of in this
                                   wonderful man," quoted in ibid. Darrell Bigham (University
                                   of Southern Indiana professor and a member of the National
                                   Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission): "Those are
                                   arguably the formative years," quoted in Seth Grundhoefer,
                                   "Lincoln Lands Celebrating," Evansville
                                        Courier & Press, February 7, 2009; Scott Sander:
                                   "he spent many of his most critical years in
                                             Indiana," in
                                   " Lincoln's Boyhood years Spent in Ind.," WISH-TV, February 11,
                                   2009. In his speech before the Senate on February 12, 2008,
                                   Senator Mitch McConnell (R-KY) made no mention of
                                             Indiana and claimed
                                   the time spent in Kentucky as Lincoln's
                                   "formative years,"
                                   http://www.govtrack.us/congress/record.xpd?id=
                                   110-s20080212-8.
                         
                          flat because Lincoln also read the
                         Bible in Indiana, but never became a preacher (or
                         even a practicing Christian); and he read the Kentucky Preceptor (also in
                         the Lilly Library), too, but no right-thinking Hoosier would call him a
                         Kentuckian.
                    I call on Hoosiers to enact a new strategy focusing on Lincoln's
                         internal experiences in Indiana; both history and
                         modern scholarship will back us up. Such a move toward the inner Lincoln
                         will pull away from artifact-based logic and into a more sophisticated and
                         nuanced world of historical ambiguity. Here are a few ideas, in no
                         particular order: 
                              Race and slavery: Instead of looking for the
                                   earliest roots of his abolitionism, we should begin a discussion
                                   about the amazing transformation in young Lincoln. Just how does
                                   a boy, living in a transplanted Kentucky neighborhood in a state that,
                                   in its 1851 constitution, prohibited blacks from even entering,
                                   come to reject slavery while still a youth?
                              Religiosity: We have seen too much of the
                                   Little Pigeon Creek Baptist Church roll book and its signatures
                                   of all the Lincoln family save Abraham. It is time for us to note
                                   that Lincoln's great religious contradiction -- though he
                                   joined no Christian church, he still brought the Bible
                                   dramatically and effectively into his speeches and policy -- began
                                   in Indiana. Here he
                                   read the Bible but did not join the Baptist church; here he
                                   mocked organized religion by satirizing circuit preachers; and
                                   here too, in the recent words of historian Stewart Winger, he
                                   laid the core of his "romantic cultural politics."17
                              Political strategy: It is time to point out
                                   that while the reading of the laws of Indiana did not inspire Lincoln
                                   to become a lawyer, his interest in the law resurfaced after his
                                   arrival in Illinois in his
                                   first political platform.18
                              Political expediency: It is time to chop down
                                   all the trees at Lincoln Boyhood Home and embrace the fact that
                                   the ax of the rail-splitter -- so important in Lincoln's 1860
                                   campaign for the presidency -- was placed in his hand on Hoosier
                                   land. 
                                        17Stewart Winger, Lincoln, Religion, and Romantic Cultural
                                                  Politics (DeKalb,
                                                  Ill., 2003),
                                             159.
                                        18Abraham Lincoln,
                                             "Communication to the People of Sangamo County," March
                                             9, 1832, in Roy P Basler, ed., Collected
                                                  Works of Abraham Lincoln, 9 vols.
                                                  (New
                                                  Brunswick,
                                                  NJ., 1953),
                                             1:5- 9, online at
                                             http://quod.lib.umich.edu/l/lincoln/.
                                   


                              




                              Photogeneity: It is time to proudly claim that
                                   Lincoln's floating left eye was produced when a Hoosier
                                   horse kicked him in the head here on Indiana soil when Lincoln was 10
                                   years old.19
                              Typicality: It is time to note that Lincoln
                                   was not superhuman, merely a "typical" frontier boy.
                                   His mother died, but one in every four children on the frontier
                                   lost a parent before age 15, and half of all America's sitting
                                   nineteenth-century presidents had lost one or both parents.20 We should stop claiming extraordinary
                                   things from the Hoosier Lincoln and instead hold a sophisticated
                                   conversation about the fact that though he was typical, he was
                                   also "odd" -- rejecting such pastimes as hunting and
                                   tobacco, becoming a Whig, and desiring all of his life to put his
                                             Indiana past behind
                                        him.21
                          I hereby call on all Hoosiers -- wherever they may live -- to be here dedicated to the great task before us of rightfully
                         and respectably claiming Lincoln for Indiana.















                    
                         19The kick, and its impact, form a significant
                              part of the analysis of Lincoln's face at the Abraham Lincoln
                              Presidential Museum.
                         20Kenneth J. Winkle, The Young
                                   Eagle: The Rise of Abraham Lincoln (Dallas, Tex., 2001), 1-9.
                         21Mark E. Neely, Jr., Escape from
                                   the Frontier: Lincoln's Peculiar Relationship with
                                             Indiana
                                        (Fort Wayne,
                              undated); William Lee Miller, Lincoln's Virtues: An
                                   Ethical Biography (New
                                   York, 2002), 30-35.
                    
               

               

               


                    Securing Lincoln's Indiana Legacy

                    Saving the Lincoln Financial Foundation Collection

                    COMMENTS BY IAN ROLLAND, MICHAEL WESTFALL, JEFFREY R. KRULL, AND BARRY
                         DRESSEL





                    For their 29th annual meeting in February 2009, the Indiana Association of
                         Historians convened in Fort Wayne,
                                   Indiana, with the conference topic
                         "Lincoln's Legacy." During a roundtable session on Saturday,
                         February 28, five men spoke on "Saving the Lincoln Museum's
                         Collections for Indiana."
                    When Lincoln Financial Group announced plans to sell the contents of its
                         Lincoln Museum, housed at the former headquarters of Lincoln National
                         Corporation in Fort Wayne, a coalition
                         from the state, city, and private enterprise formed to purchase the
                         collection and keep it in the state of Indiana.
                         Despite keen competition, including some of the nation's premiere
                         institutions such as the Smithsonian, the Indiana
                         group was successful. Each speaker in the roundtable detailed their
                         particular role in the campaign.
                    The length of the session did not permit a verbatim transcript of all of the
                         comments, so the IMH has asked participants to summarize
                         their remarks for our pages. The illustrations for this article are drawn
                         from the portion of the collection now held at the Allen County Public
                         Library in Fort Wayne. The editors
                         thank Jane Gastineau of the ACPL for her inestimable assistance in
                         obtaining the images that follow.



                    




                    
                         Abraham Lincoln, from a photograph by Alexander Hesler
                                        (Chicago, Feb. 28 ,
                              1857). Woodcut engraving by E. H. Brown. The first known
                              separate-sheet print portrait of Lincoln was issued for the Republican
                              National Convention in 1860. According to Harper's
                                   Weekly, the 9 x 12-inch sheets were "showered through
                              the Wigwam immediately after Mr. Lincoln's nomination" in
                              May 1860. Harold Holzer has said this is one of the rarest images of
                              Lincoln.
                         Courtesy of Allen County Public Library.
                    

                    









                    
                         IAN ROLLAND, FORMER CEO, LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION

                         As Chairman and CEO of Lincoln National Corporation, I was faced with
                              the decision regarding the proper use of our large collection of
                              Lincoln artifacts, memorabilia, manuscripts, and books. At the time,
                              the museum was housed in our corporate headquarters, a site with
                              limited accessibility for the public.
                         After conducting surveys, meetings, and gathering community input, the
                              Corporation invested $6,000,000 to build the Lincoln Museum in
                              downtown Fort Wayne. First
                              opened to the public in October 1995, the facility drew 40,000
                              visitors each year and also served as a destination for researchers,
                              scholars, and authors.
                         In the spring of 2008, the Lincoln Financial Group, now headquartered in
                                        Philadelphia,
                              announced that the museum would be closed on June 30 of that year.
                              Public reaction in Fort
                                   Wayne, ranging from anger to
                              disappointment, was immediate and extremely vocal. Lincoln Financial
                              Group announced that the collection would be donated to an appropriate
                              site. Forty institutions were represented at the first meeting in
                                        Philadelphia,
                              including such "heavyweights" as the Library of Congress and
                              the Smithsonian. Instructions were given as to the procedure required
                              to present a site as a favorable repository for the collection.
                         Representatives from Indiana determined to
                              pool our assets and submit a collaborative plan. The basis for our
                              proposal was the concept that the collection would be given to the
                              State of Indiana. All
                              three-dimensional artifacts would be housed at the Indiana State
                              Museum in Indianapolis,
                              while all two-dimensional material (books, photographs, manuscripts,
                              etc.) would remain in Fort
                                   Wayne at the Allen County Public
                              Library.
                         The Indiana delegation was informed later
                              in 2008 that, along with Springfield, Illinois and Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, the Indiana proposal was chosen for the
                              "final three." Visits were arranged, more information was
                              provided, and we were extremely gratified when the announcement was
                              eventually made that the Indiana
                              Plan had been selected, and that the collection would remain in the
                              state where it had been housed since 1928.
                         Our work had just begun!
                    




                    

                    

                         
                              Photograph of Lincoln by Samuel M. Fassett, taken in
                                             Chicago on
                                   October 4, 1859.
                              According to Fassett's partner, Mary Lincoln
                                   "pronounced [it] the best likeness she had ever seen of her
                                   husband."
                              This carte-de-visite version has been retouched.
                              Courtesy of Allen County Public Library
                         



                         MICHAEL WESTFALL, FRIENDS OF THE LINCOLN MUSEUM

                         When the announcement was made by the Lincoln Financial Foundation, the
                              Friends of the Lincoln Museum was faced with a decision -- who would we
                              back, or would we wait, let it all play out, and then support the new
                              custodian of the museum assets?
                         There were a variety of viewpoints on the board and, after the public
                              announcement, from the community. Within Fort
                                        Wayne and the immediate region
                              there was a feeling of local ownership for the collection. A few
                              people wanted to attack "The Lincoln," as it was locally  known. Suggestions, such as
                              moving the collection to a local shopping mall, or simply storing it
                              in a nearby warehouse, were brought forward. Few people understood the
                              curatorial responsibilities attached to ownership of the collection
                              and fewer still understood the origins, exact nature, and size of the
                              collection.
                         The position that rapidly rose to the surface was that as a supporting
                              organization, the Friends group's main purpose was to encourage
                              whatever was best for the collection. We were Friends of the Lincoln
                              Museum first, not necessarily friends of Fort
                                        Wayne or of Indiana. As it would eventually turn
                              out, all three positions were fortunately possible.
                         It was clear from the beginning that the Allen County Public Library
                              (ACPL), if they had access to the collections management staff from
                              the museum, could easily and readily handle the two-dimensional
                              collection. Unfortunately, the Lincoln Financial Foundation had
                              already said that they were not interested in dividing the collection.
                              The ACPL could not manage the three-dimensional collection, and there
                              was no partner in Fort Wayne ready
                              to take on that role.
                         It was at this time that the Friends received a call from the Indiana
                              Department of Natural Resources that the Indiana State Museum was
                              interested in establishing a partnership with the ACPL and presenting
                              a joint proposal to the Lincoln Financial Foundation.
                         This was an idea that the Friends of the Lincoln Museum could endorse
                              and get behind. If successful, this proposal would keep the archival
                              collection in Fort Wayne, where
                              it could help strengthen -- and in turn be strengthened by -- the ACPEL
                              internationally recognized genealogy collection. It would also allow
                              the three-dimensional collection to be located in
                                        Indianapolis at
                              the State Museum, which had the resources to care for the collection
                              and simultaneously increase the public's ability to interact with
                              it. The state of Indiana, through the
                              Department of Natural Resources, would own the collection in its
                              entirety and develop a loan agreement with the ACPL to house the
                              archival portion of the collection.
                         The next three months were spent with the Friends acting as coordinator
                              (and sometimes cheerleader) in drafting what became a truly dynamic
                              and, in the end, winning proposal for Indiana to be the new custodian
                              of the Lincoln Museum collections.
                         The process was not without a bit of internal agony. But, there was
                              never any disagreement that threatened the coalition's existence.
                              The group worked together in crafting a dynamic proposal benefitting
                              the 
                              
                                   D.W. Bartlett, The Life and Public
                                             Services of Hon. Abraham Lincoln
                                                  (New
                                                  York, 1860)
                                   This is one of several hurriedly prepared
                                        campaign biographies of Lincoln, who was not widely known
                                        when he became the Republican presidential candidate in May
                                        1860. This 150-page version was later supplemented with a
                                        brief biography of Lincoln's running mate, Hannibal
                                        Hamlin of Maine, and a
                                        selection of Lincoln's speeches to create a longer
                                        354-page version.
                                   Courtesy of Allen County Public Library
                               collection and advancing the State of Indiana's standing as a center
                              for Lincoln scholarship.
                    

                    
                         JEFFREY R. KRULL, ALLEN COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY

                         Community reaction to the news that the Lincoln Museum was to be closed
                              was swift and vociferous. Emotions expressed covered a wide  range, including shock,
                              disbelief, sadness, regret, anger, resentment, and indignation. Even
                              people who had rarely -- or never -- set foot in the museum lamented its
                              potential loss to the community.
                         There was near-universal agreement that something needed to be done,
                              that the loss of the Lincoln Museum would be a blow to
                                        Fort Wayne. But
                              what to do? Here, it appeared, consensus might be elusive. A few in
                              the community thought the response should be some version of "you
                              can't do this to us." They were inclined to confront the
                              company, to argue, to object, even attempt to shame or embarrass
                              corporate management into reversing their decision and keeping the
                              facility open.
                         Others advocated a somewhat less confrontational approach, involving the
                              development of a very ambitious master plan for a new physical home
                              and organizational structure for the Lincoln Museum. This vision
                              called for either the construction of a new building, or the
                              renovation of an existing building, to house the museum.
                         Still others rejected both of these ideas, seeking a more pragmatic
                              approach. They reasoned that locking horns with the LNC would be
                              futile at best and could have negative repercussions for the
                              community, in which Lincoln National maintained a significant presence
                              and was a prominent and generous corporate citizen. Furthermore, they
                              believed that the idea of developing a totally new vision and master
                              plan, possibly including a costly, time-consuming capital project, was
                              completely impractical given the announced timetable for the
                              museum's closing.
                         According to the pragmatic view, the community's best chance for
                              achieving a positive outcome would be to work with the company, on
                              their terms, and to make the strongest possible case for retaining the
                              collection locally. Ultimately, this line of reasoning emerged as the
                              consensus view of key community leaders. By the time the Lincoln
                              Financial Foundation announced its plan to entertain proposals from
                              institutions seeking to become the new owners of the collection, the
                                        Fort Wayne group
                              had already evolved into a statewide coalition intent on pursuing the
                              prize.
                         The Indiana coalition's strategy was
                              based on a thorough understanding of the nature and scope of the
                              Lincoln Museum collection. They realized that the Lincoln Museum was
                              really, at its core, a library. In fact, for many years when the
                              collection was housed in the LNC headquarters building in
                                        Fort Wayne, it was
                              known as the Louis A. Warren Lincoln Library and Museum. The vast
                              majority of the collection is two-dimensional in nature, comprised of
                              books, manuscripts, newspapers, photographs, clipping files, and other
                              documents. 




                         









                         The value of this material is primarily in its intellectual content. The
                              way to derive the greatest benefit from it is to make it widely
                              available to as many people as possible, be they scholars, students,
                              Lincoln enthusiasts, or simply someone with the need or desire to
                              learn about the life and legacy of Abraham Lincoln. And the best way
                              to accomplish this goal of wide accessibility is through digitization
                              and distribution online.
                         For this task, the Allen County Public Library was uniquely qualified.
                              The library, which had previously established a partnership with the
                              Internet Archive to set up a regional digitization center at the main
                              library building, has the capacity to digitize millions of pages per
                              month, and to handle rare, fragile, and odd-sized materials.
                         Of course the collection also contains some remarkable three-dimensional
                              artifacts, items requiring the care and attention of highly skilled
                              museum professionals. The Indiana State Museum has the facilities and
                              staff to preserve, exhibit, and interpret this portion of the
                              collection, as well as to expose it to a wide and varied audience.
                         So the Indiana coalition, in its proposal to
                              the Lincoln Financial Foundation, stressed the unique skills and
                              expertise of its two principal institutions, the Allen County Public
                              Library and the Indiana State Museum. The Indiana group grasped the nature of
                              the Lincoln collections and presented a detailed plan for exposing the
                              rich content of that collection to the widest possible audience of
                              potential users.
                    
                    
                         BARRY DRESSEL, FORMER DIRECTOR, INDIANA STATE MUSEUM

                         When the staff at the Indiana State Museum heard in early 2008 that the
                              Lincoln Financial Foundation had decided to close the Lincoln Museum
                              in Fort Wayne and
                              donate the collection to an institution better equipped to showcase
                              and use it, our initial reaction was sympathy for
                                        Fort Wayne's
                              loss and for the dislocation of professional colleagues. We were
                              concerned that with Lincoln Financial Group now headquartered in
                                        Philadelphia and
                              the certainty of fierce national competition, no single institution in
                              the state could persuade them that the collection, assembled in
                                        Indiana over the course
                              of many decades, should stay in a state where Lincoln lived and was
                              molded. We were, however, determined to play a part in whatever effort
                              was mounted to keep the collection.
                         It certainly wasn't that Indiana
                              lacked resources with which to work. In Indianapolis we had the Indiana
                              Historical Society, with its own 
                              Lincoln collection, plus archivists and paper conservators. The State
                              Library and State Archives were an additional cache of technical
                              expertise and important historical collections. The State Museum had a
                              new building, with fine gallery and storage space, plus exhibition
                              specialists and objects conservators. In Fort
                                        Wayne, the Allen County Public
                              Library offered a very large library system with superb research
                              capabilities, including the ability to digitalize large collections.
                              So we had many of the pieces that turned out to be congruent with what
                              the Lincoln Financial Foundation sought from the institution to which
                              they would donate the collection.
                         The problem was, those pieces were not in one institution, or even in
                              one city. We knew in general that any number of institutions -- in
                                        Illinois, in
                                        Pennsylvania, in
                                        Washington,
                                   D.C. -- could offer what we could, along
                              with considerable prestige and, in some cases, existing collections or
                              Lincoln expertise. We were not sure that the simple fact that we were
                              in Indiana wasn't a disadvantage. An
                                        Indiana coalition, headed
                              by the State Museum and the Allen County Public Library along with the
                              Indiana Historical Society, the Indiana State Library, and the State
                              Archives as supporting partners, resolved to submit a proposal that
                              could make us a finalist among the more than forty institutions
                              expressing interest. Once on any final list, we could then leverage
                              the fact that both the State Museum and the Allen County Public
                              Library were new and impressive facilities. We also decided to analyze
                              and specifically address each aspect of the Lincoln Financial
                              Foundation's Request For Proposal and to exceed their key
                              expectations. Most importantly, we would demonstrate how any
                              characteristics that could be perceived as drawbacks were instead
                              advantages.
                         The proposal we submitted emphasized the following points: 
                                   The capabilities of the Allen County Public Library gave us
                                        the real potential to offer a digitized, online version of
                                        the Collection to a global audience.
                                   The State Museum would mount a major Lincoln exhibition
                                        every three years that could travel to other organizations
                                        and would designate a "home gallery" for the
                                        collection, named for the Lincoln Financial
                                        Foundation.
                                   We would raise money to endow the collection, thus assuring
                                        stability, accessibility and care.
                                   The very fact that the collection was sought by
                                        institutions possessing no other major Lincoln holdings
                                        meant that the collection would maintain its identity as a
                                        gift of the Lincoln Financial Foundation.




                                   









                                   The Indiana State Museum and the Allen County Public
                                        Library are multidisciplinary institutions, and would bring
                                        new audiences to the collection.
                                   The relationship between the Allen County Public Library
                                        and the State Museum would form a unique partnership that
                                        could act as a model for other symbiotic collaborations,
                                        with each institution's area of expertise maximizing
                                        the use of the collection.
                              
                         This proposal, meticulously organized and lucidly written by the
                              Museum's grants officer, performed exactly as intended. The
                              proposal made the Allen County Public Library/Indiana State Museum
                              Collaborative a finalist, and the site visits went quite well. The
                              very fact that neither institution had substantial Lincoln collections
                              (thus giving the Lincoln Financial Foundation Collection unique
                              prominence), coupled with the State Museum's ability to name a
                              gallery for the Lincoln Financial Foundation and the ACPs capacity to
                              rapidly digitize tens of thousands of historic documents and books
                              were all significant strengths.
                         Overall, however, my perspective is that this was a taskforce of
                              people -- from Indiana state government,
                              from Fort Wayne, from
                              the Allen County Public Library, and from the State Museum -- who worked
                              well together and, under the assumption they were underdogs, provided
                              a comprehensive response to the Lincoln Financial Foundation's
                              RFP. The proposal we submitted was, we were later told, "head and
                              shoulders above the others."
                         We got the collection.
                    
               
               


               










                    Interpreting Lincoln -- A Work in Progress

                    Lincoln Boyhood National Memorial as a Case Study

                    MICHAEL A. CAPPS






                    Anniversaries are often a time of reflection; they offer an opportunity to
                         look at where we have been and, perhaps, to contemplate where we may be
                         going. As is so often the case, the way that we understand and tell stories
                         about our past changes over time. New scholarship, changing values, and
                         societal trends can -- and do -- influence the ways we choose to remember and
                         honor the people and events of our history. As the nation celebrates the
                         bicentennial of the birth of Abraham Lincoln, this process of examining how
                         Americans study and interpret Lincoln's life is in full swing. The
                         Lincoln Boyhood National Memorial, which contains a portion of the
                                   Indiana farm where Abraham Lincoln lived
                         for fourteen years of his youth, provides an interesting example of just
                         how these influences manifest themselves over time.
                    The efforts to preserve the site associated with Lincoln's youth in
                                   Indiana date to 1897, when the Nancy Hanks
                         Lincoln Memorial Association was formed. The purposes for the association
                         were to solicit funds for maintenance of Lincoln's mother's
                         gravesite and to promote an Indiana
                         memorial to the Lincoln family. In 1907, the state of Indiana
                         
                              Michael A. Capps is Chief of Interpretation at the Lincoln
                                   Boyhood National Memorial, Lincoln
                                             City, Indiana.
                         
                          established a board of commissioners
                         to maintain both the gravesite and the surrounding sixteen acres that had
                         been acquired. In 1909, the state cleared the park of dead trees, erected a
                         fence and elaborate entrance gate, and built a road from the highway to the
                         gravesite. At the highway entrance, the gateway featured life-size lions,
                         with eagles perched on columns to the south of the lions and closer to the
                         gravesite. Large stone urns were placed along the roadway to the
                              cemetery.1
                    Subsequent to these efforts, Indiana
                         celebrated its own centennial in December 1916. A focus on identifying
                         locations important to the state's history was a key element of both
                         programs. In 1917, Spencer County's
                         centennial commission requested the assistance of older county residents in
                         determining the exact location of Thomas Lincoln's cabin. Twenty
                         volunteers assembled on the historic property and pointed to a site they
                         believed to be correct, and a marker was erected there on April 28,
                              1917.2
                    After identifying the cabin site, interest in the historic Lincoln property
                         increased. Various newspaper editorials lamented Indiana's lack of a proper state memorial
                         to Abraham Lincoln. One man in particular who held this viewpoint was
                         Colonel Richard Lieber, director of the state Department of Conservation.
                         The state park movement was very strong in the 1920s, and Lieber hoped to
                         develop an impressive system of scenically beautiful, historically
                         significant parks. A memorial to Lincoln fit in perfectly with his plan.
                         His support was an important factor in eventually establishing the Nancy
                         Hanks Lincoln State Memorial and Lincoln State Park. In 1926, Lieber gained
                         assistance in his efforts when a group of private citizens formed the
                         Indiana Lincoln Union (ILU).3 The goal of the ILU was to "propose that
                         the people of our state, in mighty unison, rear a national shrine which ...
                         will express both our deathless devotion as well as our indefinite
                         gratitude to the soul of the great departed and his Mother."4
                    Decisions about how to develop the park site during this period, from 1897
                         until 1944, were influenced by several factors, each of which 
                              1Paul V Brown, The Indiana
                                        Lincoln Memorial in Spencer
                                                  County, Indiana,
                                             (Indianapolis, 1938), 11-16.
                              2Ibid.
                              3Ibid.
                              4Yearbook of the State of
                                                  Indiana,
                                   1927.
                         
                          affected the ways that Lincoln's
                         youth was interpreted at the site. One of these was the high esteem in
                         which Lincoln was held. By the twentieth century, Lincoln's elevation
                         to the pantheon of American heroes was complete. He was the Preserver of
                         the Union, the Great Emancipator, the author and orator of the
                                   Gettysburg Address, and
                         the Martyred President. In short, in the thirty years after his death, he
                         had become a larger-than-life figure; anything and any place associated
                         with his life took on a greater significance, often leading to efforts to
                         preserve and memorialize such memorabilia. That was certainly true of
                         Lincoln's Indiana homesite -- in his words,
                         the "very spot where grew the bread that formed my bones."5 Surely such a spot was worthy of preservation and
                         commemoration.
                    Lending even more significance to the boyhood home site was the fact that it
                         contained the grave of Nancy Hanks Lincoln, the mother who, so the
                         reasoning went, tragically did not live to see her son's greatness,
                         but contributed much to his eventual success. This line of thinking
                         dovetailed nicely with the "cult of motherhood," a legacy of the
                         Victorian era, which placed great importance on the influence of mothers on
                         their children's lives. Lincoln's oft-quoted statement about his
                         own "angel mother" did much to validate this view of Nancy Hanks
                         Lincoln. Therefore, preserving her gravesite in a properly honorable
                         fashion was of utmost importance to early park planners and advocates.
                         Their sentiments guided not only the initial development of the memorial
                         site, but also its subsequent form and its interpretation of Lincoln's
                         early life.
                    Because those charged with the care of the site felt a great responsibility
                         to properly honor Lincoln and his mother, they turned to Frederick Law
                         Olmsted Jr. -- son of the famous designer of New
                                   York's Central Park and a noted
                         landscape architect in his own right -- to guide them in the formulation of a
                         design for the memorial. Recognizing that Lincoln had spent a formative
                         time of life in the area, Olmsted was convinced that the commemorative
                         nature of the project should reflect the importance of the site. As a first
                         step, he set guidelines for simplifying the areas surrounding the grave and
                         cabin sites. He jointly termed these areas "the Sanctuary," and
                         declared that they "should be freed of every 
                              5"My Childhood Home I See Again"
                                   in Collected Works of Abraham Lincoln, 9 vols.,
                                   (1953; New
                                        Brunswick, N.J., 1990), 1:370.
                         
                          petty, distracting, alien,
                         self-asserting object." The object was to make "it easy and
                         natural for...people...to be stimulated to their own inspiring thoughts and
                         emotions about Lincoln."6
                    Olmsted's conceptual plan included a primary vista -- the allee -- between
                         the gravesite and the highway, situated in a cruciform arrangement. A
                         parking plaza and large flagpole at the intersection of the highway and
                         allee anchored the two axes, and the flagpole provided a focal point for
                         the south end of the allee. This arrangement established both the strong
                         spiritual imagery and solemn atmosphere that Olmsted deemed necessary for
                         best presenting the story of Lincoln in Indiana.7
                    The language used by ILU officials reinforced the religious atmosphere
                         created by the memorial's physical form. Much of the literature the
                         committee generated for fundraising purposes spoke of Nancy Hanks Lincoln
                         as the "sainted Mother," referred to her grave as "sacred
                         soil," and described visits as "pilgrimages."8 A 1941 promotional article encapsulated ILU's intentions:
                         "We are erecting here a shrine to Motherhood and to the family
                         hearthstone. We are memorializing democracy and religion."9
                    The formality of the Olmsted plan made the ILU's intention's
                         evident, by commemorating the Lincolns and celebrating their
                                   Indiana roots, without recreating their
                         pioneer farm. Led by Lieber, who felt that recreating the farm would be
                         inappropriate, the ILU strove instead to reflect "Hoosier" values
                         through a more straightforward design, using current construction methods,
                         native plants, and native materials.10 While Olmsted
                         agreed that accurately reconstructing the Lincoln farm was impossible, he
                         did propose restoring part of the native forested landscape as a backdrop
                         for the formal design. A recreated forest would not only symbolize the
                         primeval conditions against which the pioneers struggled, but was "the
                         only one of the now vanished features of the 
                              6Written report from Frederick Law Olmsted
                                   to Colonel Richard Lieber and the Indiana Lincoln Union, March
                                   24, 1927, Park History Files, Lincoln Boyhood National Memorial
                                   (here-after PHF).
                              7Marla McEnaney, A Noble
                                        Avenue: Lincoln Boyhood Home National Memorial Cultural
                                        Landscape Report (n.p., 2001), 12.
                              8Brown, The Indiana Lincoln
                                        Memorial, 11-16.
                              9"Outdoor Indiana," Indiana
                                   Department of Conservation, July 1962, PHF.
                              10Frederick Law Olmsted to Indiana Lincoln
                                   Union, March 17, 1927, PHF.
                         
                         
                         
                              Almost the "very spot which grew the bread that
                                   formed my bones" -- Lincoln's Indiana homesite as constructed
                                   for the living history farm, at the Lincoln Boyhood National
                                   Memorial. The site was designed not only to exemplify
                                   Lincoln's own past, but by extension that of all Hoosier
                                   pioneer families "living off the land, at harmony with
                                   nature."
                              Courtesy of National Park Service, U.S. Department of
                                   the Interior. NPS Photo by Richard Frear.
                          place characteristic of Lincoln's time which can be
                         reproduced without sham or falsehood."11
                    Although not included in Olmsted's original design concept, the
                         development of what came to be known as the cabin site memorial was
                         consistent with the underlying desire to create a proper commemoration of
                         Lincoln's experiences in Indiana.
                         After deciding that a replica of the Lincoln cabin would be inappropriate,
                         the state hired architect Thomas Hibben, an Indiana
                         native, to design a suitable monument to mark the spot where the cabin once
                         stood. Hibben planned a bronze casting, in the shape of the cabin's
                         sill and hearth, to be surrounded by a stone wall. The area would then be
                         formally landscaped. The goal was: to mark the
                              cabin site in such permanent means that knowledge of its location may
                              not be lost to history and in such manner as to 
                                   11Ibid.
                              
                               indicate the sacredness of the
                              spot. The log sill is chosen as appropriate to mark the outline of the
                              cabin; the hearth and fireplace are chosen because they have been,
                              since time immemorial, the altar of the home, the center around which
                              all life moved. The entire conception is cast in bronze in order that
                              it may be durable and that it may not in any way seem a reconstruction
                              of the original cabin. The entire purpose of the design is intended to
                              be a symbol of the hearth and home of the Lincoln family.2 In May 1933, a Civilian Conservation
                         Corps crew located the historic hearthstones, excavated them, constructed
                         the stone wall, and landscaped the grounds. After numerous delays the
                         bronze casting was finally placed on the site in July 1935.
                    While work was underway on the cabin site memorial, J. I. Holcomb, president
                         of the ILU, suggested another major design feature for the landscape. He
                         recommended "a collection of stones from the various points of Lincoln
                         interest," situated along a wooded trail as miniature shrines to
                         moments in Lincoln's life. This "Trail of Twelve Stones"
                         would also include stone benches and tablets that described the
                         stones' origins. ILU members and others immediately began acquiring
                         stones, and by 1934 the trail was complete. A promotional piece described
                         the trail: "Each shrine," it promised, "will be especially
                         landscaped to emphasize its historical significance."13
                    While the Trail of Twelve Stones was not part of Olmsted's plan, it
                         provided a significant physical and allegorical link between the cabin and
                         the gravesite. The connection of Lincoln's childhood home to his
                         mother's grave emphasized the theme of pilgrimage. The trail
                         symbolized the visitors' journey during which they could learn about
                         and reflect upon the different stages of Lincoln's life, and also
                         represented the sad story of Lincoln's childhood: his passage from
                         innocence into maturity and on to his eventual sacrifice for the nation.14
                    With the placement of the casting, the first phase of the memorial's
                         development was complete, and the state moved on to the construction 
                              12Brown, The Indiana Lincoln
                                        Memorial, 11-16.
                              13"Stones Taken From Scenes Vitally
                                   Linked with the Life of Lincoln Made Into Shrines at Nancy Hanks
                                   Park," Evansville Courier and Journal,
                                   January 1, 1933, PHF.
                              14McEnaney, A Noble
                                   Avenue, 22.
                         
                          of the memorial building. The
                         building's location had been a subject of debate for many years, with
                         plans offered that placed it alternately at the north end of the allee,
                         near the gravesite, or at the south side of the plaza. Lieber was opposed
                         to placing it near the gravesite out of concern that it would "crush
                         the very object of our veneration: that unpretentious little grave holding
                         the body and the enigma of Nancy Hanks Lincoln."15
                         After consulting with Olmsted, he reported to the ILU that
                         "[b]uildings in that location would disrupt the reveries or
                         contemplations of those who come to visit that little hallowed
                              spot."16 Finally, in 1938, the Department of
                         Conservation and the ILU decided to place the structure south of the plaza,
                         away from the north end gravesite.
                    Hibben earlier proposed a 200-square-foot structure with four square courts,
                         surrounding a 150-foot-tall tower housing a large pipe organ. The courts
                         were to be connected with cloisters decorated in frescoes and sculptures;
                         the tower would be painted with murals. The building would have restrooms,
                         and even a small restaurant, for the convenience of visitors. This proposal
                         was generally well received by the public, but some members of the
                         Department of Conservation and the ILU were uncomfortable with the design,
                         fearing that its magnificence would "interfere with the spirit of the
                              place."17 Olmsted, too, felt the plan was
                         wrong. Ultimately the ILU rejected the proposal.
                    Olmsted suggested a matched pair of structures on either side of the allee,
                         at its south end, creating a portal through which visitors could pass to
                         begin their journey to the gravesite. A semicircular wall connecting the
                         two structures would also create a "court of honor" between the
                         two wings. His proposal was accepted, and the ILU hired National Park
                         Service architect Richard Bishop to finalize the design and supervise the
                         construction of the memorial building.
                    Bishop's goal was to create a building that suggested the best design
                         and construction practices of Lincoln's day, and simultaneously
                         "expressed the qualities of simplicity, strength and dignity that are
                         invariably associated with Lincoln's character."18 In an effort to maintain this simplicity, Bishop insisted
                         that all elements of the building also serve a 
                              15Lieber to Olmsted, June 13, 1938,
                                   PHF.
                              16Lieber to J.I. Holcomb, December 13, 1938,
                                   PHF.
                              17Lieber to Olmsted, June 10, 1938,
                                   PHF.
                              18Bishop to Indiana Department of
                                   Conservation, June 28, 1939, PHF.
                         
                          utilitarian purpose. Consequently, the
                         semicircular court wall, in addition to housing sculptured panels on its
                         exterior, was expanded into a curved passage for connecting the adjacent
                         ends of the two halls.19 Heavily influenced by the
                         commemorative nature of the park -- as exemplified by the cabin site memorial,
                         the memorial landscape, and the treatment of the cemetery area -- Bishop
                         summed up his thoughts in this way, Whatever is
                              built should be a forthright expression of honesty, simplicity and
                              dignity, qualities that we associate with Lincoln and his mother.
                              There should be no false construction or design. Materials should be
                              native and largely hand worked. Design should be suggested by the best
                              practice of the days when Nancy Hanks was a young woman. Not a design
                              suggestive of the log cabins she lived in but a type of structure that
                              might have been built by one of the best builders of the period to
                              commemorate an illustrious pioneer.20
                         Construction began in 1941 and was completed in 1944. With the main
                         building open, the Nancy Hanks Lincoln Memorial, as conceived by the ILU,
                         was essentially complete. The result was a site heavily commemorative in
                         nature, a place where visitors could "remember" the early life of
                         a great American. Its designers and developers had believed that simply
                         being in this place, where Abraham Lincoln had grown up, was enough to
                         inspire reverence and respect for both the man and his mother. That guiding
                         principle consequently influenced the site's later development and set
                         the tone the way in which Indiana's chapter of the
                         Lincoln story would be interpreted for years to come.
                    Interestingly, Olmsted -- in a letter to Lieber in 1927 -- had declared how
                         important it was that "these simple familiar associations speak for
                         themselves to future generations, and to subordinate in this place any
                         desire that we of today may have to impress those future generations with
                         what we think about Lincoln." Indiana, he
                         said, had "a right to take pride in expressing the honor which it
                         feels for Lincoln's memory" by creating a memorial. He also
                         emphasized, however, that the boyhood 
                              19McEnaney, A Noble
                                   Avenue, 32.
                              20Bishop to Leiber, January 25, 1940, quoted
                                   in Richard E. Bishop, Nancy Hanks Lincoln
                                        Memorial ([Indianapolis], 1944),
                                   16-17.
                         
                         
                         
                              A "curved chronology in stone documenting
                                   important moments in Abraham Lincoln's life" with
                                   simplicity, strength, and dignity: The Memorial Court at Lincoln
                                   Boyhood Home National Memorial.
                              Courtesy of David Wiegers, Gurnee, Illinois
                          farm "which speaks directly from the grave where he buried
                         his mother and from the vacant site of his early home is the last place in
                         which to express that pride in any self-assertive way that might thrust our
                         20th century ideas between posterity and the significance of the place
                              itself."21
                    Olmsted, Lieber, the ILU, and Richard Bishop agreed that the only proper way
                         to honor Lincoln, while guarding against the imposition of any
                         twentieth-century ideas, was to develop a memorial site to commemorate the
                         great man's time in Indiana. Ironically, the very
                         notion of a Lincoln memorial was itself a twentieth-century idea,
                         influenced by his stature as an American historical figure, and exemplified
                         by other sites such as the Lincoln Memorial (1922) in
                                   Washington,
                              D.C., and Mount Rushmore (1937) in
                                   South Dakota. The
                         development of the Nancy Hanks Lincoln Memorial Park represented just one
                         more manifestation of the way in which Lincoln's life was interpreted
                         during the 1930s and 1940s.
                    Though the actual physical development of the site ended with the completion
                         of the memorial building, the interpretive tone, set by Olmsted and Lieber
                         among others, remained the same throughout the period when the site was
                         managed by the state. A brochure for Nancy Hanks Lincoln Memorial from the
                         1950s, for example, continued to 
                              21Olmsted to Lieber, March 24, 1927,
                                   PHF.
                         
                          refer to the site as a "National
                         Shrine ... erected as a tribute to Nancy Hanks Lincoln and her illustrious
                              son."22
                    In 1959, with the observation of the sesquicentennial of his birth, there was
                         renewed interest in the study of Lincoln. For its part, the Indiana Lincoln
                         Sesquicentennial Commission, alongside the Indiana Lincoln Foundation,
                         proposed the construction of a museum at the Nancy Hanks Lincoln Memorial
                         Park. The foundation's stated goal was to "make a National Shrine
                         of the 'Lincoln Land' in southern Indiana." As part of the fundraising campaign,
                         school children were asked to contribute one dollar apiece to become
                         "Abraham Lincoln Schoolfellow Donors." The money would then be
                         used to construct a museum "perpetuat[ing] the code by which Abraham
                         Lincoln lived -- honesty, integrity, hard work, self-discipline -- as the pattern
                         of living for our youth."23 The campaign was
                         apparently unsuccessful; the museum was never built.
                    By the late 1950s, there was talk of transferring management of the memorial
                         to the federal government and thereby making it a national park. In 1959,
                         Senator Vance Hartke, of Evansville, introduced a bill into the
                         Congress authorizing the National Park Service (NPS) to conduct a
                         feasibility study. The study neither recommended the idea nor endorsed it.
                         In the meantime, however, local Indiana
                         businessman William Koch, became interested in the idea and worked with
                         Congressman Winfield K. Denton proposing a national park at
                                   Lincoln City. Once
                         the state endorsed Koch and Denton's proposal and offered to donate
                         the 200 acres -- containing the cabin site, the gravesite, and the memorial
                         building -- to the NPS, the legislation passed easily. President John E
                         Kennedy signed the act officially authorizing the establishment of Lincoln
                         Boyhood National Memorial on February 19, 1962 and, on July 10, in a
                         ceremony held in front of the memorial building, the transfer was formally
                         made as Indiana's first authorized unit of the
                         National Park System was dedicated.24
                    With its transfer to the NPS, the Indiana Lincoln site's interpretation
                         changed. The NPS, which emphasized education and visitor services, believed
                         that the traditionally commemorative nature of the site provided too few
                         opportunities for engagement. The park needed to be 
                              22Indiana Department of Conservation
                                   brochure, 1950, PHF.
                              23Indiana Lincoln Foundation promotional
                                   literature, PHF.
                              24Jill O'Bright, "Administrative
                                   History of Lincoln Boyhood National Memorial," 1987,
                                   PHF.
                         
                          more than a place of remembrance and
                         reflection. It needed to teach visitors about Lincoln's life while in
                                   Indiana, and about the effect that his
                         childhood had on his later life. To that end, the new owners enclosed the
                         cloister of the memorial building and built a new wing, which housed a
                         museum and an auditorium. Proper respect was maintained for the gravesite,
                         but the park's historical narrative was expanded beyond Nancy's
                         influence on her son's life, to include the family's experience
                         of life on the frontier. The new museum highlighted aspects of farm life
                         and the difficulty of obtaining a formal education. Exhibits also featured
                         information about the Little Pigeon Creek community in which Abraham had grown
                         up. In 1968, the film "Here I Grew Up" premiered in the
                         park's auditorium. It presented the young Lincoln as a boy growing up
                         in a simple place who went on to achieve great things.
                    The most significant evolutionary development in interpretation at the site
                         resulted, at least in part, from a shift in how Americans had begun to view
                         their history by the late 1960s. Park visitors were less interested in mere
                         remembrance. They wanted to know about the lives of average people, and
                         about the lives of great Americans such as Lincoln, before they became
                         great. One way that this new interest manifested itself was in the
                         development of "living history farms," which created, or
                         recreated, historical locations for telling history in an engaging
                         manner.
                    In 1966, the National Park Service began working with the Department of
                         Agriculture and the Smithsonian Institution to establish a nationwide
                         system of farms representing a variety of regions and time periods. NPS
                         Director George Hartzog was an early proponent of the idea and, following a
                         visit to the Indiana park in 1968, selected
                         the Lincoln Boyhood Home as one such site. It was a popular idea, both with
                         Superintendent Al Banton, who began making plans, and with Congressman
                         Denton, who helped obtain the necessary appropriations. In November 1968,
                         the new edition of the NPS Interpreters Newsletter
                         reported that a new park had been created at the Lincoln Boyhood site.
                         "Previously, the emphasis was on monumental memorialization totally
                         divorced from the life Lincoln led there. Now we have a cabin and
                         outbuildings and crops and animals and a fine idea of the environment in
                         which the nation's most illustrious son grew up."25


                    
                         25Barry Mackintosh, Interpretation
                                   in the National Park Service: A Historical Perspective,
                              (n.p., n.d.).
                    





                    









                    This move toward deemphasizing the commemorative aspects of the park was
                         officially stated in the 1970 version of the park's interpretive
                         planning document. It called for the "removal of the unsightly
                         retaining wall from around the...cabin site memorial" because it was
                         "a definite intrusion on the Living Historical Farm as park
                         development moves from the formal memorialization of the site to a more
                         educational use." Removing the wall, it was felt, would minimize any
                         intrusive aspects of the memorial. The same document also stated that the
                         Trail of Twelve Stones had been removed from the farm.26 Clearly, the farm had become the primary means of
                         interpreting the Indiana Lincoln story.
                    The development of the farm also coincided with the new, burgeoning emphasis,
                         in late 1960s and early 1970s, on environmental awareness felt throughout
                         the country, particularly within the national parks. The NPS developed
                         special environmental programs and repackaged Lincoln's
                                   Indiana story as one of pioneer families
                         living off the land, in harmony with nature. The interpretive prospectus of
                         1970 stated: "The main theme depicts self-sufficiency and man in his
                         environment. Everything the Lincolns used was either totally consumed or
                         recycled -- nothing was wasted. The Lincolns derived their living from the
                         land and forest around them."27
                    Some interpretive planners, however, disagreed with this view. They expressed
                         concerns regarding the "tendency to shift the focus of interpretation
                         away from Lincoln and his boyhood at the site to a more generalized attempt
                         to portray a 19th century frontier lifestyle."28
                         They also argued that "the historical record challenges the... claim
                         of the Lincoln farm's 'self-sufficiency.'"29 In fact, the idyllic interpretation of pioneer life
                         was at odds with reality -- the Lincolns and other pioneers had actually
                         worked hard to "tame the wilderness," and establish communities
                         economically tied to the more settled areas of the East. As quicky as
                         possible, farming replaced hunting, and manufactured goods replaced
                         homemade ones.





                    
                         26"Interpretive Prospectus," National
                              Park Service, 1970, PHF.
                         27Ibid.
                         28Acting Chief, Cultural Resources to Assistant
                              Director, Planning and Development, October 25, 1977, PHF.
                         29Chief, Division of Interpretation and Visitor
                              Services to Assistant Director, Planning and Development, October 17,
                              1977, PHF.
                    


                    








                    Despite these concerns, the living history farm soon became an extremely
                         popular feature of the park and was, for many years, the centerpiece of the
                         its interpretive efforts. The NPS hired additional seasonal employees to
                         staff it during the spring and summer, purchased more livestock, and
                         gradually increased the area under cultivation. As the years passed, park
                         administrators did little with other media, in spite of an assessment by
                         NPS interpretive planners in the 1980s calling for an update of the movie
                         and the museum exhibits. Limited funds, however, combined with the
                         continued emphasis on living history, delayed implementation of these
                         projects for many years. The park was still showing the 1968 movie, and
                         still had the 1966 museum exhibits in place, in the 1990s. The park's
                         brochure, with its almost exclusive emphasis on the farm operation, had not
                         been revised since 1972. Pioneer skills demonstrations, despite their
                         popularity, did not always have a direct relevance to the Lincoln story. In
                         short, the program was unbalanced.
                    A new 2001 long range interpretive plan summed up the park's problems:
                              The popularity of the farm operation, both
                              with the public and with the staff, has led to an imbalance in the
                              interpretive effort. While countless hours and dollars have been put
                              into the farm, virtually nothing has been done to revise or update any
                              of the other interpretive media. The museum exhibits in the Memorial
                              Visitor Center need to be replaced; the park brochure is at least 20
                              years old and reflects a discernible bias in favor of the farm
                              operation; and the Exhibit Shelter has never been fully utilized. Even
                              in the area of personal services, the attitude has commonly been that
                              "real interpretation" could only be done at the farm and
                              that the Memorial Visitor Center exists primarily as a means of
                              directing visitors to the farm.30 It went
                         on to say: The challenge, then, is one of
                              restoring balance. The farm operation is an important component of the
                              program, and 
                                   30"Long Range Interpretive
                                        Plan," 2001, PHF.
                              
                               will certainly not be eliminated.
                              However, it needs to be viewed as one of several interpretive tools,
                              and not the centerpiece of the program. An investment of time and
                              money needs to be made in upgrading and modernizing the other
                              non-personal components of the program -- the museum, the brochure, the
                              movie -- as well as an increased emphasis on personal interpretation at
                              the Memorial Visitor Center. Strategies also need to be devised to
                              make the program more inclusive of those components that reflect the
                              memorial nature of the park -- the characteristics of the Memorial
                              Visitor Center structure, the memorial landscape, the Cabin Site
                              Memorial, and the Trail of Twelve Stones.31 This renewed commitment toward the overall
                         interpretive effort, combined with the funding benefits which user fees
                         make possible, has allowed the park to begin the process of restoring a
                         sense of balance in recent years. In late 2001 a new movie, "Forging
                         Greatness," premiered. Telling the Lincoln story as comprehensively as
                         possible and using the farm as a backdrop, the film also calls attention to
                         other features of the park, such as the cabin site memorial and the Trail
                         of Twelve Stones, making them equally important to the visitors'
                         experience. A new brochure presents the park as multifaceted, with the
                         farm, the interpretive media, and the commemorative features all smaller
                         parts of a larger whole. In January 2006, a complete rehabilitation of the
                         museum resulted in displays that not only told Lincoln's
                                   Indiana story, but that also tried to make
                         some connection between his time here and his later life. For the first
                         time, too, ongoing efforts to preserve the site and create a park are
                         acknowledged and recognized as vital pieces of the narrative. One wall of
                         the museum contains a display entitled "An Indiana Memorial," paying tribute to the
                         work of the early park developers and their vision of the site as a
                         memorial. With these changes, the park has moved closer to accomplishing
                         the interpretive objectives stated in its 2004 long range interpretive
                         plan: 
                              To relate information, in a relevant and interesting manner,
                                   about specific people and experiences that had an impact on
                                   Lincoln.
                         
                         
                              31Ibid.
                         
                         
                         
                              To demonstrate specific pioneer skills that would likely have
                                   been a part of Lincoln's life, as a means of helping the
                                   visitor to better understand the world in which he grew up and
                                   what part that world played in shaping his character.
                              To present the story of the creation of Lincoln Boyhood NM as an
                                   illustration of how the nation's respect and reverence for
                                   Abraham Lincoln manifested itself in a commemorative manner at
                                   this park.32
                         


                    The story of the evolution of interpretation at Lincoln Boyhood National
                         Memorial is indicative of the ways that many influences, sometimes even
                         seemingly contradictory influences, can affect how history is depicted.
                         Each telling is reflected through the prism of the time in which it is
                         being told. Early development of the park was reflective of the desire to
                         create a memorial to Abraham Lincoln and his mother. The development of the
                         farm was part of an attempt to make history more engaging for the visitors.
                         Is one ultimately better than the other? The truth is most likely that each
                         interpretation is a valid approach. Visitors connect to the tangible
                         resource of this site in whatever way is most meaningful for them, just as
                         they do to the intangible resource that is Abraham Lincoln. Each of us
                         seeks our own meanings. The process is ongoing.


                    
                         32"Comprehensive Interpretive Plan,"
                              2004, PHF.
                    


               

               


               




                    Abraham Lincoln Statues in the Hoosier State
                    JAMES A. PERCOCO







                    On a blustery March 9, 1832, a young fledgling
                                   politician -- New Salem,
                                   Illinois resident, Abraham Lincoln -- tossed
                         his hat into the political arena for the first time. Posting his circular
                         around the frontier town, Lincoln let it be known, among other things, what
                         he desired to make of his life. "Every man," he wrote, "is
                         said to have his peculiar ambition. Whether it be true or not, I can say
                         for one that I have no other so great as that of being truly esteemed of my
                         fellow men."1 Twelve years later, this former
                         Hoosier, now an Illinois Sucker and ascending
                         member of the State Assembly, returned to the state in which he had lived
                         from 1820 to 1831. Much had happened to the thirty-five-year-old Lincoln in
                         the years between. As he drolly recalled, "In the fall of 1844, I went
                         into the neighborhood in that state in which I was raised, where my mother
                         and only sister are buried, and from which I had been absent about fifteen
                         years. That part of the country is, within itself, as unpoetical as any
                         spot of the earth; but still seeing it and its objects and inhabitants
                         aroused feelings in me which were certainly poetry; though 
                              James A. Percoco teaches United States and Applied History at
                                   West Springfield High School in Springfield,
                                             Virginia. He serves
                                   as History Educator-in-Residence at American University in
                                             Washington,
                                             D.C. where he teaches in the
                                   School of Education and in the History Department. Percoco is the
                                   author of Summers with Lincoln: Looking for the Man
                                        in the Monuments (2008) on which part of this article
                                   is based.
                              1'Communication to the People of
                                             Sangamon
                                   County," March 9, 1832, Collected Works of Abraham Lincoln, 9 vols.
                                             (New
                                        Brunswick, N.J., 1953), 1:8.
                         
                          whether my expression of those
                         feelings is poetry is quite another question."2
                         Penning a twelve-verse anthem to his days in southern Indiana, and calling it "My Childhood
                         Home," Lincoln's doggerel opens: 
                                   My childhood's home I see again,
                                   And sadden with the view;
                                   And still, as memory crowds my brain,
                                   There's pleasure in it too.3
                              
                          Clearly the Indiana landscape offered
                         Lincoln mixed emotions. It had been a hard life there for the future
                         president. In some ways, when Thomas Lincoln relocated his family across
                         the Wabash River
                         and into Illinois, his son never looked back. Two
                         years later, he left his family and departed to New
                                   Salem.
                    Public memory is often very quirky and unpredictable, particularly when it
                         comes to the legacy of Abraham Lincoln. It is strikingly so in
                                   Indiana, which boasts six of the more than
                         two hundred public monuments erected to the memory of Lincoln across the
                         American landscape. The number is considerably less than the fifty (and
                         growing) standing in neighboring Illinois.
                         Nevertheless Indiana has a right to claim
                         its share of the Lincoln story. It was here he experienced loss early in
                         his life with the deaths of his mother, Nancy Hanks, and his sister, Sarah.
                         The National Park Service administers Lincoln Boyhood Home National
                         Memorial in Lincoln City,
                         interpreting the impoverished life of the young Lincoln who felled trees
                         and cleared fields -- the Lincoln of manual labor, who began his love of
                         reading under the tutelage of his beloved stepmother, Sarah Bush Johnson
                         Lincoln, and, in the end, rejected his father and his frontier roots.
                    It would be interesting to know what Lincoln would have said about all of
                         this memorialization. His self-deprecating side would no doubt offer
                         something in the way of, "What's all the fuss?" But then
                         again, the side of Lincoln that longed to be "esteemed by his fellow
                         man" would clearly enjoy that fuss. In many ways, the historical
                         Lincoln and the Lincoln of public memory are hard to nail down. Nowhere is
                         that 
                              2Collected Works, 1: 378.
                              3Ibid.
                         
                          more difficult than on the stage of
                         American civil religion, where we venerate our secular saints and national
                         icons.
                    Fortuitously, each region of Indiana can
                         connect to Lincoln through three of the six monuments erected to his
                         memory. Residents of northern Indiana can
                         take in Paul Manship's sleek art-deco Lincoln the Hoosier Youth (1932)
                         in Fort Wayne; in the capital at
                                   Indianapolis, central
                                   Indiana citizens will find Henry
                         Hering's 1935 Beaux-Arts-styled tribute to President Lincoln; and at
                         Lincoln Boyhood Home National Memorial near Lincoln
                                   City, visitors to southern
                                   Indiana can study E.H. Daniels's five
                         limestone memorial panels (1944) chronicling the Lincoln story. All of
                         these monuments and public sculptures were created during the great age of
                         Lincoln sculptures, beginning a few years after Lincoln was assassinated
                         and ending by the middle of the twentieth century. Additionally, in
                                   Wabash, there is an enigmatic sculpture
                         by Charles Keck -- erected in 1932 -- of President Lincoln, burdened by the
                         weight of the Civil War, sited beautifully against the striking Victorian
                         era Wabash
                                   County Courthouse. The paper trail is very
                         thin for this sculpture, but residents of Wabash are rightly proud of
                         "their" Lincoln.4
                    The story of Lincoln the Hoosier Youth began long before
                         its 1932 dedication and unveiling. In 1905, Robert Lincoln, the only
                         Lincoln child to live into adulthood, granted the new Lincoln National Life
                         Insurance Company of Fort Wayne permission to use Abraham Lincoln's
                         image on stationary and in marketing strategy, a tradition that remains
                         firmly in place today, under the auspices of the Lincoln Financial Group of
                                   Philadelphia (the
                         descendant of the insurance company). Robert had carefully managed and
                         cultivated his father's image and public memory. Never one to care
                         about public sculpture, he presumed that statuary was intended for the home
                         as a decorative art -- no doubt having been influenced in this sentiment by
                         the thousands of John Rogers's plaster-cast tabletop parlor pieces
                         popular during the Victorian era. One of these anecdotal sculptures that
                         found great favor among Americans after the Civil War was the ensemble
                         called The Council of War, depicting Abraham Lincoln in
                         conference with his Secretary of War Edwin Stanton and the commander of the
                         Union Army, General Ulysses S. Grant. However, as a natural outgrowth of
                         the Union victory, more and more 
                              4A duplicate cast of Keck's brooding,
                                   sorrowful Lincoln is in Hingham, Massachusetts, the community to
                                   which Lincoln's English ancestors came in 1632.
                         
                          Lincoln statues began to populate
                         cities and towns in the North, coinciding with the American Art Renaissance
                         and the City Beautiful Movement spurred on by the 1893
                                   Chicago Columbian
                         Exposition. In response, Robert was forced to deal with varying
                         sculptors' attempts to capture his father's persona and essence.
                         "It seems to me impossible," he wrote a friend in 1881,
                         "that a bronze heroic statue can ever be a faithful likeness of the
                              subject."5
                    By the time the Lincoln National Life Insurance Company commissioned its own
                         heroic bronze statue of Abraham Lincoln to grace the entranceway plaza of
                         its corporate headquarters, Robert Lincoln had been dead for two years. In
                         1928 the $75,000 contract was awarded to one of America's eminent
                         sculptors of the age, Paul Manship. Manship (1885-1966) was not, by trade
                         or inclination, either a portrait sculptor or sculptor of historic moments.
                         He was primarily a sculptor of animals and mythological allegorical figures
                         from antiquity, and was best known for the golden Prometheus gazing down on the ice skating rink in
                                   New York's
                         Rockefeller Center. However, the ultimate compliment for a sculptor to
                         receive in the first three decades of the twentieth century was a Lincoln
                         commission. Manship could not refuse. He brought tremendous energy and
                         talent to the task, and gave the world its best image yet in the genre of
                         "Lincoln the Youth." While perhaps not necessarily as faithful to
                         Lincoln's physical features as works such as Bryant Baker's
                         youthful interpretation in Buffalo,
                                   New York (1935), or Fred Torrey's
                         contribution in Decatur,
                                   Illinois (1942), Manship's depiction
                         of Lincoln as a youthful visionary is, in a way, true to the young
                         lawyer's Whiggish roots, which interweaved an emphasis on personal
                         economic uplift with a commensurate belief in America as "the last best hope of
                              earth."6
                    To begin his particular journey into Lincoln lore, Manship toured the places
                         in Kentucky and Indiana where Lincoln grew up. Joining Manship
                         on his sojourn was Dr. Lewis A. Warren, an important second-generation
                         Lincoln collector who, in 1931, opened the Lincoln Library and Museum,
                         formerly called Lincoln Historical Research Foundation. Warren's vast
                         collection became the basis of the Lincoln Museum of Fort
                                   Wayne, which closed its doors in 2008.
                         Warren and the Lincoln 
                              5Robert Lincoln to George Payson, June 25,
                                   1881, Robert Todd Lincoln Papers, Abraham Lincoln Presidential
                                   Library, Springfield,
                                             Illinois.
                              6Collected Works, 5:
                                   537.
                         
                          National Life Insurance Company merged
                         interests in the same year to promote greater public awareness of Lincoln
                         and his Indiana years, as well as to showcase
                         Warren's collection. Lincoln the Hoosier Youth
                         became one of their early collaborations.
                    There is no photographic evidence of Lincoln before 1846, when he was
                         thirty-seven. This proved to be particularly frustrating to Manship, who
                         had to engage in a backwards intellectual forensic activity. He was forced
                         to review dozens of photographs and dig deeply into Lincoln family
                         genealogy. To better acquaint himself with his subject and to draw
                         inspiration, Manship visited the grave of Lincoln's beloved mother,
                         Nancy Hanks, in the far southeastern corner of the state. Manship would
                         later claim that this was the defining moment of his quest and that
                         standing before Hanks's grave he fully understood his charge.
                         "The desire," he wrote, "to represent the young Lincoln as a
                         dreamer and poet rather than as the rail-splitter was uppermost in my
                              mind."7
                    Then, like all prodigious sculptors, Manship entered into the spirit of his
                         subject. He pored over biography after biography of Lincoln. Conversations
                         with Warren as they toured related historical sites helped Manship to
                         fashion an appropriate image of the young Lincoln. He also conducted
                         interviews with biographers Carl Sandburg and Ida Tarbell, who keenly
                         identified with the "uplift factor" in Lincoln's life.
                         Collectively, the sum of information he gathered helped Manship settle on
                         his particular vision of the adolescent Lincoln.
                    Fortuitously for the sculptor who enjoyed creating statues of animals,
                         Manship came across a story from Lincoln's junior law partner, William
                         H. Herndon, claiming that in 1830, as the family crossed from
                                   Indiana to Illinois,
                         Lincoln had rescued a dog struggling in the Wabash River. Manship was struck by
                         Herndon's recollection of Lincoln saying, "I could not endure the
                         idea of abandoning even a dog. Rolling off socks and shoes, I waded across
                         the stream and triumphantly returned with the shivering animal under my
                         arm. His frantic leap of joy and other evidence of a dog's gratitude
                         amply repaid me for all the exposure I had undergone."8 While some may suspect Herndon's recollection as more
                              
                              7Manship, "Lincoln Statue to Be
                                   Dedicated," The Junior Citizen, August
                                   1932, p.6, Paul Manship File, Lincoln Museum,
                                             Fort Wayne,
                                             Indiana.
                              8Donald C. Durman, He Belongs
                                        to the Ages: The Statues of Abraham Lincoln
                                             (Ann Arbor,
                                             Mich., 1951), 236.
                                   A self-published monograph, Durman's work contains pictures
                                   and text centered on many-but not all-Lincoln public sculptures
                                   erected around the United
                                   States.
                         
                         
                         
                              Inspiring adoration in both man and beast, Lincoln
                                   rests one hand gently on his rescued hound in
                                             Fort
                                   Wayne's Lincoln the
                                        Hoosier Youth.
                              Courtesy of David Wiegers, Gurnee, Illinois
                          fable than history, for Manship the story worked. He found a dog
                         "from across the Ohio
                              River from the place of Lincoln's youth and ...just
                         the type"9 to use as a model for his statue.
                    His research completed, notes in hand, and dog in tow, Manship returned to
                         his Paris studio in 1929 and began work.
                         For three years he labored to produce a work of art that could capture
                         Lincoln's essence and connect with the people of Indiana. Thus the twelve-foot bronze
                         Lincoln -- seated on a large tree stump, with an earnest gaze on his face -- who
                         looks ready to take on the world. In his right hand he holds an open book,
                         with his index finger marking what he has just read, and his axe resting at
                         his side. This image may represent the apocryphal moment when Lincoln chose
                         to trade manual labor for intellectual pur- 
                              9F. Lauriston Bullard, Lincoln
                                        in Marble and Bronze, (N.J., N.J., 1952), 290. Bullard spoke with
                                   many living Lincoln sculptors for his book; much of the text is
                                   based on either interviews or other correspondence between the
                                   author and the artists. Bullard likewise surveyed many, but not
                                   all, public monuments erected to Lincoln's memory. Quite
                                   surprisingly, E. H. Daniels's work on the Lincoln Boyhood
                                   Home National Monument, for example, is excluded.
                         
                          suits. The book itself could easily be
                         Byron, Shakespeare, or Pope.10 Lincoln's left
                         hand, meanwhile, rests lovingly on the head of a hound dog who gently
                         nuzzles Lincoln's thigh and gazes longingly at its master. Yet Manship
                         also depicts Lincoln's formidable torso and his powerful arms under
                         the rolled up linsey-woolsey shirt sleeves. "Everyone has heard or
                         read stories of Lincoln's youthful physical prowess," he said,
                         "and so we have depicted Lincoln as the brawny youth that he was. The
                         axe tells the story of his rail-splitting days." At least two
                         documented accounts from Civil War soldiers concur that as president,
                         "Uncle Abe" entertained soldiers by picking up an axe he found in
                         their encampment and holding it horizontal by one hand for several minutes.
                         No small feat now or then.
                    Interestingly when the bronze was originally made, the axe was mistakenly
                         cast backwards, and Manship had to have the axe recast to fix his error.
                         Had Lincoln used the axe as it had originally been cast, he would have
                         sliced his foot open with the first swing. That Manship's model
                         reflects both the error and the subsequent repair speaks to his skills as
                         well as to those of the foundry workers who engineered the work from
                         full-scale clay model to bronze.
                    Cast at the Compagnie de Bronzes in Brussels, Belgium, the
                         sculpture was unveiled and dedicated on September 16, 1932 in
                                   Fort Wayne. Art
                         historian F Lauriston Bullard argues that, "In it we have the
                         earnestness and seriousness of a thoughtful youth, and we also see the
                         melancholy aspect which was characteristic of the subject throughout his
                         lifetime, and which has been depicted by the artist with rare
                              subtlety."11
                    Lincoln the Hoosier Youth rests on a base of pinkish-grey
                              Crotch
                              Island granite from Maine, which
                         protrudes out over the steps and sits flush with the elevated entrance
                         plaza, also formed from the same stone. The 14.5-ton pedestal, quarried in
                                   Conway, New
                              Hampshire, separate from the base on which the
                         pedestal rests, is sited squarely in the center of the base and measures
                         six-and-one-half feet high by five feet square. Both the base and pedestal
                         reflect the strength of the figure they support. The sculpture itself
                         harmonizes well with the surrounding architectural framework of its
                         limestone office building home, designed by architect 
                              10For Manship, "The book symbolizes his
                                   intellectual faculties; and the dog reminds us of his exceptional
                                   love for animals as well as the greater feeling of human sympathy
                                   and protectiveness." Durman, He Belongs to the
                                        Ages, 293.
                              11Bullard, Lincoln in Marble
                                        and Bronze, 293.
                         
                         
                         
                              Manship's Lincoln the Hoosier
                                        Youth, embodying the youth, power, wisdom, and
                                   seriousness of Lincoln in his pioneer years, evident even before
                                   the dark days and trials of his later life.
                              Courtesy of David Wiegers, Gurnee, Illinois
                         
                          Benjamin Wister Morris, who
                         collaborated with Manship in making the sculptural arrangements. The space
                         is a great portal for a heroic sculpture.
                    Four bronze medallions of idealized figures, representing aspects of
                         Lincoln's character that shaped the destiny of the nation, adorn the
                         pedestal. Above the medallions are words etched in stone defining each
                         image. On the south side of the pedestal sits the figure of Justice; on the
                         north side is Fortitude, its strength demonstrated threefold by the lion
                         upon which he sits, the Doric column grasped in his right hand, and the
                         shield cradled under his left arm; Charity faces the building on the
                         eastern facade of the pedestal, represented by a mother lovingly holding
                         her children. A heroic, muscular American eagle, representing Patriotism,
                         rounds out the series on the western side of the pedestal, the same side
                         from which Lincoln faces the world.
                    1932 ranks as the worst year of the Great Depression. Fort
                                   Wayne, in the farm belt, was
                         particularly struggling, but in spite of hard times four thousand men in
                         fedoras and straw hats and women in calf-length dresses filled Harrison
                         Street and the plaza in front of the insurance company building. The day
                         was sunny and warm. Newsreel cameras were on hand to record the event and a
                         national radio audience tuned in via the National Broadcasting
                         Company's local affiliate, WOWO. Flag buntings and patriotic drapery
                         hung from the surrounding buildings, all at the behest of Arthur J.
                         Siebold, the manager of the credit rating bureau of the local Retail
                         Merchants' Association.
                    Parallel tributes to aging Union Civil War veterans often coincided with
                         Lincoln statue dedications during the first three decades of the twentieth
                         century. These moments provided civic celebrations for honoring the
                         sacrifice of men quickly vanishing from the scene. Accorded special
                         reserved seats on the grandstand, members of the local Grand Army of the
                         Republic joined Manship and an array of civic leaders and speakers,
                         including Tarbell and the venerable, eighty-two-year-old Daniel C. Beard,
                         National Scout Commissioner for the Boy Scouts of America. Local Boy Scouts
                         served as ushers and passed out programs. A special invitation had also
                         been extended to eighty-four-year-old Mrs. M.O. Smith, formerly of
                                   Hanover,
                                   Pennsylvania. As a
                         fifteen-year-old schoolgirl she had sung in the chorus that performed at
                         the Gettysburg National Cemetery dedication
                         ceremonies, and witnessed the delivery of the Gettysburg Address. She fondly recalled
                         Lincoln grasping her hand during the ceremonies, saying: "[H]is great
                         warm, all-enveloping hand took hold of my little one and almost crushed
                         it." Later that evening at the reception, she claimed, Lincoln singled
                         her out again and once more  took her
                         hand in his. She reported that she "tingled all over" as the
                         president held her hand in his, feeling his "kindliness and greatness
                         of soul."12 Many of these octogenarians had more
                         than just personal reasons to be in Fort
                              Wayne: To the majority of younger folks in
                         the crowd they represented not only the vestige of a bygone era, but also a
                         living connection to Lincoln.
                    School had been dismissed early, but not before students had heard from
                         Beard, who delivered an address on "Lincoln the Youth," and from
                         Tarbell, who spoke to the children at a special luncheon. The program
                         kicked off at 12:30, headed by the founder and president of Lincoln Life,
                         Arthur E Hall, who had written a special request to the president's
                         son twenty-seven years before. "We want a name so proud that men and
                         officers will give their lives to keep it stainless," he wrote.
                         "We want a name so simple and strong that the whole world would love
                              it."13 Manship's graceful statue now
                         helped complete his corporate vision. An invocation was offered by Joseph
                         R. Sizzo, the pastor of the New York Avenue Presbyterian Church of
                                   Washington,
                              D.C., which housed the Lincoln pew. President
                         Herbert Hoover sent his greetings through Senator James E. Watson of
                                   Indiana. U.S.
                         Secretary of Agriculture Arthur M. Hyde delivered the keynote address.
                         Alongside them sat Warren, the director of the Lincoln Historical
                         Foundation, which had played a crucial role in getting the sculpture
                         erected. Manship spoke briefly, followed by the unveiling. On hand to pull
                         the lanyard was Hall's five-year-old grandson, who managed in two tugs
                         to unveil the youthful Lincoln to the world, at which point the band struck
                         up, "America," followed by the National Rifle Corps of the
                         American Legion Post 47's twenty-one-gun presidential salute.
                    For the next hour the crowd heard a series of speeches presenting a Lincoln
                         story much akin to the Horatio Alger myth. At their conclusion Beard, as a
                         representative of the Boy Scouts of America, placed a wreath at the foot of
                         the statue in tribute. Two years later, Beard and other Scout leaders drew
                         inspiration from that moment when the Boy Scouts of America launched their
                         annual long-term program, begun in Fort
                              Wayne, called Lincoln Day Pilgrimages. Every
                         February 12, Lincoln's birthday, Scouts trooped to their local Lincoln
                         statues and paid homage to the sixteenth president.




                    
                         12Rufus Rockwell Wilson, Intimate
                                   Memories of Lincoln (Elmira, NY,
                              1945), 480.
                         13Arthur F. Hall to Robert Lincoln cited in
                              Bullard, Lincoln in Marble and Bronze, 290.
                    


                    





                    Over the next several days nearly one hundred telegrams from across the
                         nation poured into Warren's office at the foundation. Radio coverage
                         produced a national interest as private citizens and all manner of
                         government officials sent their congratulations to Fort
                                   Wayne. An article appearing in The Detroit News summed it up, reporting that "[a]
                         new and different statue of Abraham Lincoln was unveiled here, today. ...
                         It is a likeness of Lincoln at 21; a stalwart Indiana frontiersman,
                         unburdened by his country's problems."14
                    Manship's Lincoln the Hoosier Youth reflects the era
                         in which it was dedicated. It marks Lincoln's time in
                                   Indiana, and demonstrates some of the
                         universality of the story of the self-taught, self-made man. Making
                         something of his life, which began with so few advantages, is one aspect of
                         the many stories of the Lincoln image quite germane to his
                                   Indiana years; it is the story of an
                         ordinary person growing up to live an extraordinary life.
                    Driving two hours southwest from Fort
                              Wayne to Indianapolis, visitors can see a sculpture
                         of Lincoln that powerfully demonstrates just how this ordinary man became
                         extraordinary, and can witness how his exceptional nature, particularly as
                         President of the United States during the Civil War, is
                         depicted in heroic bronze.
                    Henry Hering's President Lincoln (1935) hearkens back
                         to the days of Beaux-Arts, figurative, academic sculpture fast in decline
                         by the mid-1930s. Hering (1874-1949), a one-time student and assistant to
                         Augustus Saint-Gaudens -- America's foremost
                         sculptor of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries -- had received
                         his formal instruction attending the Arts Students League in
                                   New York City and the
                         famed Ecole des Beaux-Arts in Paris,
                         both associated with Saint-Gaudens. He received additional training in
                                   Paris from another Saint-Gaudens
                         protege, Philip Martiny. With Saint-Gaudens' encouragement, in 1900
                         Hering joined Saint-Gaudens and the Cornish,
                                   New Hampshire
                         artists' colony that sprouted up around America's master sculptor at his estate,
                         Aspet. During this period Saint-Gaudens was battling the intestinal cancer
                         which would ultimately kill him. It was customary, given his deteriorating
                         physical health, for Saint-Gaudens to direct assistants from a chair or
                         chaise lounge. Historian David Tripp argues, in part, that what 
                              14Fort Wayne Sentinel,
                                   September 16, 1932.
                         
                         
                         
                              Henry Hering's President
                                        Lincoln, in Indianapolis. Hering's
                                   depiction presents the president "assuring the public that
                                   if they will only be calm and patient he will pull them
                                   through," a message as resonant today as it was in
                                   Lincoln's lifetime.
                              Courtesy of David Wiegers, Gurnee, Illinois
                         
                          really made Saint-Gaudens great was
                         his almost Svengali-like power over his assistants to have them craft clay
                         figures while Saint-Gaudens envisioned them. He was a perfectionist, and
                         believed himself to be a mentor to the next generation of sculptors.
                         Hering, and the others working in Cornish,
                         endured criticism when necessary, and praise when "the Saint" was
                         pleased. While in Cornish, Hering worked on
                         a number of major Saint-Gaudens commissions, most notably The
                              Charles S. Parnell statue for Dublin,
                                   Ireland, and The Seated
                              Lincoln for Chicago's Grant Park,
                         for which Hering did most of the modeling.15
                    When Saint-Gaudens died in 1907, Hering lovingly created a memorial portrait
                         bust to his mentor that can be seen today at the Saint-Gaudens National
                         Historic Site in Cornish. In correspondence
                         with Bullard, before his death in 1949, "Hering gladly concede[d]
                         Saint-Gaudens' great influence on him, writing of him as a great man
                         and a fine friend."16 In 1910 Hering married
                         another Saint-Gaudens assistant, Elise Ward. Ward abandoned her own career
                         to work as her husband's chief assistant.
                    Saint-Gaudens's influence on Hering cannot be overestimated, and
                         Hering's major commissions, including the classical figures he did for
                                   Chicago's Field
                         Museum, the Chicago memorial to the
                         defenders of Fort Dearborn, and
                         his Civil War memorial at Yale depicting the allegorical figures of Devotion, Memory, Courage, and Peace,
                         all carry Saint-Gaudens's artistic DNA.
                    He likewise collaborated with many architects of the period, and some of his
                         work can be seen adorning bridges and buildings, most notably in
                                   Cleveland,
                                   Ohio, on the Severance Concert Hall, and
                         the Lorain-Carnegie (now Hope Memorial) Bridge.
                    Hering was no stranger to the community when his Lincoln
                         was unveiled in Indianapolis's
                         University Park. The city had a solid compliment of public sculpture, most
                         notably the towering State Soldiers and Sailors Monument (1902), a tribute
                         to the sons of the city who served in the Civil War; Charles Niehaus's
                         sculpture of Indiana's only
                         native-born president, Benjamin Harrison (1908); and the assortment of
                         memorials 
                              15Gleaned from conversations held with the
                                   NPS staff at Saint-Gaudens National Historic Site in
                                             Cornish,
                                             New Hampshire
                                   and interpretative plaques in the Lincoln Room located at the
                                   site, July 18, 2008.
                              16Bullard, Lincoln in Marble
                                        and Bronze, 305.
                         
                          and tributes occupying the
                         five-block-square World War Memorial Plaza that commemorate the
                                   Indiana residents who served in World War
                         I.
                    Hering's contributions to Indiana's Memorial Plaza were numerous. "In
                         Obelisk Square," standing like a sentinel in the center of the
                         terraced pavilion, "one finds an obelisk one hundred feet in height,
                         representing the aspirations of the nation. The bronze panels at the base
                         of this obelisk represent Religion, Science, Law, and Knowledge -- the
                         foundations of the nation's hopes -- and are the work of Hering."17 At the southern end of the park is the Memorial
                         Building, a multipurpose structure serving as a reminder of the sacrifices
                         made by Hoosiers during World War I. To ascend the ziggurat-like structure
                         one must climb a grand stairway and pass a second Hering piece, the
                         enormous freestanding figure Pro Patria (1929). At the
                         time it was the largest sculptural bronze casting in the
                                   United
                                   States. For Hering, Pro
                              Patria "sought to express all there is in humanity of
                         aspiration, valor, renunciation, and the perpetuation of the memory of the
                         patriot fighting for the right."18 Standing before
                         the twenty-four-foot Pro Patria one sees a robust youth,
                         representing the Spirit of the American Soldier, clad only with sandaled
                         feet and a scabbarded sword around his waist. Striding forward he holds a
                         flagstaff in his right hand; the unfurled flag billows behind him,
                         providing the necessary volume to artistically balance the sculpture. His
                         left arm upraised, the boy gazes skyward almost as if in an appeal to
                         heaven.
                    Like most major cities at the turn of the twentieth century,
                                   Indianapolis wanted
                         to honor Lincoln with a suitable civic sculpture. For many of those
                         cities -- including Chicago and
                                   Indianapolis -- a
                         wealthy benefactor made the difference. Indianapolis benefited from the largesse of
                         Henry Clay Long , a Civil War veteran, local lumber merchant, and
                         philanthropist who bequeathed $10,000 to the city "for the erection of
                         a bronze statue of Abraham Lincoln, to be located near the southeast corner
                         of University Square or Park."19 After Long died
                         in 1901, different city administrations raised objection after objection -- 
                         regarding not the subject matter, but rather the designated site and its
                         potential impact on the harmonious balance of University Square. Finally,
                         though, in 1933 newspaper publicity brought the issue to a head. 
                              17Ibid., 303.
                              18Hering to Bullard in Ibid., 304.
                              19Ibid, 303.
                         
                          "The Board of Park Commissioners,
                         through the probate court, obtained possession of the legacy, which accrued
                         interest had by that time increased to $25,000, and forthwith contracted
                         with Mr. Hering for the creation of the Lincoln statue."20 With Hering's local reputation secure, the board deemed
                         no competition for other artists or designs necessary. Hering completed
                         first his maquettes, then the successive full-scale clay and plaster model,
                         in well under the usual three-year standard contract between sculptor and
                              client.21 Once finished, the full-scale models
                         were shipped off to the Roman Bronze Works of New York for casting. On
                         April 6, 1935, Long's dream became a reality as the statue, placed on
                         a Vermont rose granite pedestal provided by
                         the park commissioners, was unveiled. The keynote speaker at the dedication
                         was Lewis A. Warren. Three years removed from his work on Lincoln the Hoosier Youth, he recalled Lincoln's childhood
                         in Spencer
                                   County, stating, "and when he left he
                         was not an ignorant boy, but a well-read young man, able to cope with the
                         best of the Illinois politicians."
                         Clearly Warren saw Lincoln's years in Indiana as
                         his formative years, a belief offering a particular "challenge to the
                         state to aid in producing other famous citizens."22
                    Hering's Lincoln evokes the work he completed for Saint-Gaudens, Seated Lincoln. Working intimately on that piece, while
                         his mentor fought cancer, he knew his subject matter well. Hering posed
                         Lincoln seated in a finely detailed Victorian parlor chair, complete with
                         fringes. Draped across the back of the chair, behind the subject, and
                         flowing over the chair's arms is a shawl. Many accounts from the White
                         House and Lincoln Cottage relate how the president would often drape
                         himself in a shawl. In the sculpture, Lincoln's left foot is forward
                         while his left arm and hand rests on that thigh.23 This
                         is a Lincoln of wisdom, as his right hand is extended, fingers spread as if
                         to make a point to those encountering him. Standing before the sculpture,
                         one feels as if he stands in the president's office. Lincoln's
                         famous stovepipe hat rests behind the chair on the ground, with a pair of
                         gloves placed gracefully atop the hat.




                    
                         20Ibid, 305.
                         21Maquettes are the small clay models or sketches
                              where sculptor's ideas come to gestation quickly.
                         22Bullard, Lincoln in Marble and
                                   Bronze, 305
                         23Found on what was at the time the grounds of
                              the Old Soldiers Home, the Lincoln Cottage was a summer residence
                              three miles from downtown Washington where Lincoln stayed in
                              1862, 1863, and 1864.
                    


                    



                    
                         Viewed from up close, the skill, detail, and emotional
                              impact of Herings sculpture becomes truly evident.
                         Courtesy of David Wiegers, Gurnee, Illinois
                    


                    Hering explained that, "after reading the life of Lincoln over again and
                         the story of the troublesome times he went through, it occurred to me that
                         he was getting little support, and it is at this period that I decided to
                         depict him in an attitude of assuring the public that if they will only be
                         calm and patient he will pull them through. This caused me to use the
                         gesture to aid in conveying my idea. I also made the features grave, with
                         the head bowed and serious. The shawl and the tall hat in the rear of the
                         figure helped to make a good composition."24
                    Near the end of his life Hering unwillingly found himself thrust into the
                         national news and part of a tragic irony. At 9:50 a.m. on July 28, 1945, a
                         B-25 Mitchell bomber crashed into the northern side of the seventy-eighth
                         and seventy-ninth floors of New York
                              City's fog-enshrouded 
                              24Bullard, Lincoln in Marble
                                        and Bronze, 305.
                         
                          Empire State Building. Fourteen people
                         died in the freak accident. Nearby structures also sustained damage,
                         including a building at 10 West 33rd Street, where one of the engines
                         crashed through the penthouse and started a fire. The penthouse was
                         Hering's, and included his studio; both were consumed by the fire.
                         Hering, playing golf in Scarsdale, returned to find most of his work
                         destroyed and damage to his property totaling well over $100,000.25 In 1904 a huge conflagration likewise consumed the
                         large barn studio on the grounds of the SaintGaudens estate in
                                   Cornish. Much of the
                         Saint-Gaudens enterprise was obliterated by the blaze, including important
                         documents, a huge loss of primary material relative to Saint-Gaudens's
                         work, and models of varying sizes.26
                    Hering, an elected Fellow of the National Sculpture Society, is remembered
                         today mostly through a prestigious award. The Henry Hering Art and
                         Architecture Award and Medal is given by the NSC for outstanding
                         collaboration between sculptor, architect, and owner.
                    Tourists and visitors to the rural southeastern corner of Indiana, deep in Spencer
                                   County, will encounter one of the largest
                         memorials in the nation erected to Lincoln, in a place whose atmosphere and
                         physical appearance have changed little over time. Elmer Harland
                         Daniels's (1905-1986) five massive Indiana
                         limestone panels, located at Lincoln Boyhood Home National Memorial,
                         chronicle in stony narrative the story of Lincoln's life and legacy.
                         What separates this memorial from others in the state and around the nation
                         is that it was originally conceived as a tribute not just to the sixteenth
                         president, but also to his mother, Nancy Hanks Lincoln.
                    Unlike other large public civic projects underway in the early 1940s, such as
                         John Gutzon de la Mothe Borglum's presidential tribute on Mount Rushmore,
                         this particular project was not halted at the outbreak of World War II but
                         was instead erected and completed during wartime. As an in-house project of
                         the state, only local resources -- particularly limestone quarried in nearby
                         Bedford -- were used, thus alleviating the project delays typically faced by
                         others at the time.





                    
                         25Clifford Orr, The Talk of the Town,
                              "Aftermath," New Yorker August 11, 1945,
                              p. 16.
                         26A second fire coincidently took place in
                                        Cornish in 1940. John
                              Tauranac, The Empire State Building: The Making of a
                                   Landmark (New
                                   York, 1995).
                    


                    








                    The driving force behind the creation of the panels and the memorial building
                         to which they are attached was the Indiana Lincoln Union (ILU), organized
                         in 1926. The ILU sought to secure a fitting testimony to Lincoln's
                                   Indiana years in the locale where Nancy
                         Hanks was buried. Fund raising by the ILU permitted the purchase of
                         "seventeen hundred acres near Gentryville, Indiana and
                         encompassing the site of the Lincoln cabin there and the grave of Nancy
                         Hanks Lincoln."27 Hanks Lincoln died on October 5,
                         1818 after contracting "milk sickness," a disease passed on to
                         humans through the consumption of tainted milk from cows who had ingested
                         milkweed, a plant poisonous to humans. At the time of her death, Abraham
                         Lincoln was nine. The ILU worked for fourteen years and lobbied five
                         different gubernatorial administrations to finally get the project moving,
                         and on January 12, 1940, it contracted with architect Richard E. Bishop to
                         design the memorial. The executive committee simply requested that whatever
                         was erected "should be a forthright expression of honesty, simplicity,
                         and dignity, qualities we associate with Lincoln and his mother," and
                         that the design should be suggested by the best practice of the days when
                         Nancy Hanks was a young woman, not suggestive of log cabins, "but of a
                         type of structure that might have been built by one of the best builders of
                         the period to commemorate an illustrious pioneer."28
                    On January 20, 1941, little more than a year later, Bishop's plan for
                         the initial building structure was presented to the committee, with a
                         caveat regarding its location on the property. In his report, Bishop urged
                         the ILU to maintain the existing integrity of the Lincoln Hanks burial
                         site, claiming that "the grave on the little hill sheltered by a
                         beautiful grove of native trees, with a few other moss covered graves
                         nearby, provides a picture in harmony with the character of Nancy Hanks
                         Lincoln as history and legend record it. Nancy Hanks was a simple pioneer
                         woman though the revered mother of our great President. It would probably
                         be out of character and might spoil the natural dignity of her resting
                         place if any modern or formal buildings were located too near to her grave,
                         even as a well meant tribute to her memory. "29



                    
                         27Durman, He Belongs to the
                                   Ages, 272.
                         28Ibid.
                         29To craft his design Bishop first read reports
                              submitted to the executive committee by noted landscape architect,
                              Frederick Law Olmstead Jr. and then, after consulting with committee
                              chairman Colonel Richard Leiber, agreed with Olmsted and Leiber's
                              general site plan for
                    


                    








                    Bishop's idea was to make the memorial both functional and aesthetically
                         pleasing. In 1943, when work was complete, that is what the ILU received.
                         The memorial consists of three parts: the central feature is a set of
                         limestone panels. These are fronted by a cloister connecting the small Abe
                         Lincoln Hall (which includes a memorial chapel) to the larger Nancy Hanks
                         Hall, which serves as a combination public lounge and visitors'
                         center. To make his ideas three-dimensional, Bishop turned to sculptor E.H.
                         Daniels who produced, at the architect's direction, a model of the
                         memorial. Daniels, a native of Michigan,
                         had studied at the John Herron Art Institute at Indianapolis and the Beaux-Arts
                         Institute of Design in New York City, in
                         addition to time spent studying sculpture in Italy,
                                   France, and Great
                              Britain.30 All was
                         considered satisfactory with the conception, with the only remaining
                         questions concerning the size and the materials for the panels (bronze vs.
                              stone).31 In the end it was agreed that the panels
                         should be large, to depict the grandeur of the subject matter as well as to
                         provide physical strength to the building. Limestone was selected, as there
                         was a quarry nearby and because the stone came from Indiana soil. Governor Henry E Schricker
                         committed $30,000 to the project, and Daniels signed a contract for $12,000
                         per year for two years. As was customary with sculptors until the last half
                         of the twentieth century, the artist's contract covered other costs as
                         well and, in the case of Daniels, the $65 per week paid to the stone
                         cutters was subtracted from his salary.
                    During his work on the model for the memorial, Daniels, who had a strong
                         interest in Lincoln statuary, and had earlier completed a portrait bust of
                         Lincoln for the ILU, became personally invested in the design of the
                         panels, and he absorbed the cost of drafting the designs out of his own
                         pocket to create sketches designed to impress the executive committee. And
                         impressed they were, as was noted sculptor Lee Lawrie, retained by the ILU
                         as a consultant and to whom the committee had submitted Daniels's
                         sketches. In August 1941, the ILU contracted with 
                              locating the memorial. "Their basic idea seemed to me sound
                                   because it would naturally result in a broad and relatively low
                                   structure." Richard E. Bishop to the Indiana Lincoln Union,
                                   Executive Committee, January 20, 1941, Lincoln Boyhood Home
                                   National Memorial Archives, Lincoln
                                             City, Indiana.
                              30Simon Stemle, "Sculpture was most
                                   important in nation at time," The Herald,
                                   November 14, 1986, p.6.
                              31Ibid.
                         
                          Daniels to complete the panels. One
                         month later he established a studio in nearby Jasper and worked steadily on
                         the project until June 1943.32 Commission in hand, a
                         pleased Daniels wrote Charles DeTurk, director of the state parks in
                                   Indiana: "I may get a bigger job some
                         day, but I doubt if I will ever have a more significant one."33
                    Daniels, sketching first in pencil and then transferring his ideas to clay,
                         created small models measuring twenty-seven inches long by sixteen inches
                         high. His work was under constant review by the Sculpture Committee to
                         insure that the finished product be historically accurate in all manner of
                         details, ranging from the people down to the foliage. As with all large
                         works of art, though, Daniels's ideas changed and evolved over time
                         with the oversight committee's input, sometimes to his
                              consternation.34 Working clay models were created,
                         one-half the size of the full panels, then cast in plaster for the
                         stonecutters to begin their nearly year-long labor on the five separate,
                         ten-ton, thirteen-and-one-half-foot long by eight-foot high limestone
                         panels quarried in nearby Bloomington and provided by the Sare Hoadley
                         Company. Daniels personally selected each slab. The stone carving team,
                         overseen by Daniels, included Harry Liva, Joseph Slinkard, and Jesse
                         Corbin -- all residents of Bedford,
                                   Indiana.
                    On May 21, 1940, the cornerstone of the memorial was laid by Governor
                         Schricker, who delivered the principal address. Although the memorial was
                         completed by July 1, 1943, with all the panels installed and the property
                         landscaped, the dedication was subsequently put off until after World War
                         II by the Indiana Department of Conservation; ultimately, no ceremony was
                         ever held.
                    The memorial panels, a curved chronology in stone documenting important
                         moments in Abraham Lincoln's life, are today the centerpiece of
                         Lincoln Boyhood Home National Memorial, which acquired the 
                              32Ibid.
                              33E.H. Daniels to Charles DeTurk, undated
                                   file, Lincoln Boyhood Home National Memorial Archives.
                              34Undated file, Lincoln Boyhood Home
                                   National Memorial Archives. In January 1942, Daniels took his
                                   frustrations, which included delayed installment payments due to
                                   him, directly to the press. Embarrassed by his actions, the
                                   Indiana Department of Conservation -- which managed the
                                   construction -- reprimanded Daniels and ordered him not to speak to
                                   the press again without prior permission. No documentation exists
                                   as to whether his payment schedule was resolved. "The Nancy
                                   Hanks Lincoln Memorial, Phase II, Lincoln Boyhood Administrative
                                   History," chap. 3, Lincoln Boyhood Home National Memorial
                                   Archives.
                         
                          entire site from the state of
                                   Indiana in 1962. On the one hand, these
                         high and bas-relief panels evoke a suggestion of ancient Egyptian
                         inspiration, while on the other hand, they figuratively reflect a myriad of
                         WPA art projects completed during the 1930s, with their slightly
                         exaggerated figures and forms. Nine quotes, from a variety of Lincoln
                         sources including state papers, speeches, and letters, are incised into the
                         stone above each panel and above the four cloister entrances. These quotes
                         are connected to different Lincoln themes: A Supreme Being; Peace; Labor;
                         Liberty; Democracy; Friendship; Law and Order; and Right and Duty. Each of
                         the quotes, set above the five panels, is relevant to the scene
                         beneath.
                    Standing in the Memorial Court, and facing the memorial, visitors first
                         encounter, on their left, the easternmost panel, "Kentucky,
                         1809-1816." Here they see Lincoln as a seven-year-old boy,
                         transfixed by the words of Christopher Columbus Graham, a traveler and
                         outsider whose stories cast their spell on the impressionable child. Others
                         in the panel include Jesse LaFollette (grandfather of the future Senator
                         Robert LaFollette from Wisconsin), Thomas Lincoln,
                         Nancy Lincoln, and Sarah Lincoln (who stands working a butter churn), and
                         local schoolteacher Caleb Hazel. A log cabin serves as a reminder of that
                         element of the Lincoln lore, particularly his homes at Sinking Spring and
                              Knob Creek
                         farms.
                    The second panel, "Indiana 1816-1830," depicts
                         Lincoln as a muscular and thick-limbed young man, doing what he was
                         sometimes best known for -- splitting rails. He stands in the center of the
                         panel with an axe held in his left hand, its head resting on the ground.
                         The players in this drama consist of Justice David Turner (who first
                         brought the law to Lincoln's attention) and his friend Allen Gentry
                         (who accompanied Lincoln on a trip to New
                              Orleans via the Mississippi River). This trip may
                         have been apocryphal, as some say it was on this trip that Lincoln first
                         witnessed slavery.35 In the image, Thomas Lincoln holds
                         one end of a log, while Nathaniel Grigsby, Lincoln's brother-in-law,
                         holds the other. Dennis Hanks, cousin of Nancy Hanks (and someone who would
                         play a role in giving Lincoln his nickname of "rail-splitter"),
                         also appears in the panel, as does Lincoln's stepmother, Sarah Bush
                         Lincoln.
                    "And Now He Belongs to the Ages," is the third
                         and central panel. "This panel depends entirely on symbolism for its
                         meaning, representing 
                              35David Herbert Donald, Lincoln (New
                                        York, 1995), 34-35.
                         
                          Lincoln's enduring influence on
                         all succeeding generations."36 Allegorical figures
                         within it reflect a blacksmith (representing labor and industry), and a
                         sower (representing both agriculture "and suggesting the analogy of
                         sowing and reaping as applied to human acts and their
                              consequences").37 A mother and child
                         represent family, home, and posterity. On his knees before an almost deific
                         figure of Lincoln kneels a freedman, seemingly offering supplication. As a
                         gesture of freedom and hope the former slave's shackles are broken.
                         Interestingly, this is one of only nine African American figures
                         represented within the plethora of Lincoln statues across the
                                   United
                                   States. Tapping into the ethereal, two
                         allegorical figures complete the scene: Clio, the Muse of History, who
                         records Lincoln's deeds on a scroll; and Columbia, who presents
                         Lincoln with a laurel wreath in homage from the nation. The White House and
                         a cabin stand in low relief, symbolizing Lincoln's rise from humble
                         and obscure origins to the greatest office in the United
                              States. The alleged words that Lincoln's
                         secretary of war, Edwin Stanton, uttered after Lincoln took his final
                         breath, "And now he belongs to the ages," imply Lincoln's
                         place within American and human history.
                    The fourth panel, "Illinois 1830-1861,"depicts
                         Lincoln's life in Springfield,
                                   Illinois, and the congratulations offered
                         to him by friends upon his 1846 election to the House of Representatives.
                         Personalities germane to Lincoln's law practice populate the panel,
                         including John Stewart, Stephen Logan, and William Herndon. Lincoln shakes
                         the hand of his best friend Joshua Speed while Mary Todd Lincoln, Simon
                         Francis (a local editor and Lincoln supporter), and Orville H. Browning
                         (another friend and future political ally) round out the reliefs.
                    "Washington,
                                   D.C., 1861-1865," stands as
                         the fifth and final panel. Here visitors witness Lincoln conferring with
                         Union General Ulysses S. Grant near the end of the war at an encampment
                         near Petersburg, Virginia. Four high-relief idealized and
                         thirteen low-relief figures of Union soldiers symbolize the great conflict
                         of the Civil War and the sacrifices citizens made for Union victory. A
                         cannon barrel rests on the ground.38



                    
                         36Richard E. Bishop, The Nancy Hanks
                                   Lincoln Memorial: An Account of the Planning and Development of
                                   the Memorial Buildings, Sculpture and Grounds by the Indiana
                                   Lincoln Union and the Indiana Department of Conservation,
                                   1940-1944 (n.p., 1944), centerfold.
                         37Ibid.
                         38This panel later graced the cover of the
                              February 1943 issue of Outdoor Indiana.
                    


                    









                    The Hoosier State, which can rightfully claim a genuine piece of the Lincoln
                         story and myth, has a right to be proud of these monuments. As they have
                         doubtless shaped previous generations and their impressions of Lincoln, so
                         too will they remain a testimony of his life in the future, despite being
                         tales told in metal and stone.
               


               
               





                    Jesse W. Weik

                    The Young Indiana Lawyer Who Made Herndon's Lincoln Possible

                    RANDALL T. SHEPARD






                    Among the sixteen thousand books written about Abraham Lincoln, none can
                         match in the public mind the work associated with his law partner William
                         Herndon. Published in 1889, Herndon's Lincoln: The True
                              Story of a Great Life has continued to be a leading point of
                         reference in the world of scholars, alternately revered, denigrated, and
                         rehabilitated for more than a century.
                    Without the assistance of a young Indiana
                         lawyer, however, this influential source would likely have never come to
                         print. Although Herndon collected most of the source material and gave the
                         book its intimate vision of Lincoln, the work itself was almost entirely
                         written by Jesse William Weik of Greencastle. This article tells the story of
                         that collaboration and illuminates the life of Weik, who has long remained
                         in Herndon's shadow.
                    
                          WEIK'S EARLY LIFE
                         Weik's father Louis immigrated to the United
                                        States in the 1840s, first to
                                        Cincinnati and
                              then to Greencastle,
                                        Indiana, where he started
                                   
                                    The Hon. Randall T. Shepard is Chief Justice of the
                                        Indiana Supreme Court. Justice Shepard is a
                                        seventh-generation Hoosier and a graduate of Princeton
                                        University, Yale Law School, and the University of Virginia
                                        School of Law. He is co-author, with David Bodenhamer, of
                                             The History of Indiana Law
                                        (2006).
                              
                              
                              
                                   Young Jesse Weik at the beginning of his career,
                                        standing tall before his mentor John Clark Ridpath's
                                        home. Aided by Ridpath's "intensity ... as teacher
                                        and scholar," Weik would go on to do great things in
                                        his future.
                                   Courtesy of Ann Weik Grifalconi and the
                                        author
                               out as a baker and later moved into the grocery business.
                              Louis Weik's wife died a few months after childbirth, and it was
                              his second wife, Katherine Schmidt, with whom he had Jesse, born
                              August 23, 1857. With little education but an active mind, Louis took
                              a special interest in the students, faculty, and administration at
                              Indiana Asbury, slipping extra food into the bags of struggling
                              students and presenting a tall silk hat to the college's
                              president each Christmas. Weik's father determined to impress his
                              son with the value of education and to introduce him to the wider
                              world. Louis took him to Indianapolis, for example, to join
                              thousands of others for the Lincoln funeral train's stop, and to
                              view  Lincoln's corpse lying
                              in state.1 The elder Weik even lifted his son up
                              to see the late president's face.2
                         At the age of thirteen, Weik entered Indiana Asbury College in
                                        Greencastle, now
                              known as DePauw University. He graduated before he turned eighteen -- the
                              youngest ever at the time -- earning an A.B. in 1875.3
                         Weik's connection to Asbury was enriching in many ways. For
                              example, he married DePauw alumna Frances Almaretta Hays on December
                              1, 1890.4 Frances died March 19, 1911, in the
                              family home in Greencastle.5 They had three children, one dying in infancy.6
                              The other two were John Weik and Mary Hays Weik Grifalconi.7 Both his daughter and his granddaughter Ann
                              Weik Grifalconi became well-respected authors in their own right.8
                         Through Asbury, Weik crafted more than one beneficial future
                              relationship. While a student there, he built a relationship with
                              prominent historian Professor John Clark Ridpath, whose History of the World was widely advertised through direct
                              mail and by canvassers, including a 
                                   1Jesse W. Weik, The Real
                                             Lincoln: A Portrait, ed. Michael Burlingame
                                                  (Lincoln,
                                                  Neb., 2002),
                                        xxiii. Burlingame's eight-page introduction discusses
                                        Weik's life as an author and a Lincoln scholar.
                                        Burlingame, a former student of David Herbert Donald, taught
                                        at Connecticut College in New
                                                  London until his
                                        retirement in 2001. He has written the two-volume Abraham Lincoln: A Life
                                                  (Baltimore,
                                                  Md., 2008) and
                                             The Inner World of Abraham Lincoln
                                                  (Urbana, Ill., 1994) as well as
                                        edited a number of other Lincoln-related editions. He has
                                        received the Abraham Lincoln Association Book Prize and the
                                        Lincoln Diploma of Honor from Lincoln Memorial University.
                                        He was inducted into the Lincoln Academy of Illinois in
                                        2009.
                                   2Glenn Tucker, "Lincoln's
                                        Jesse W Weik," Lincoln Herald, 77 No.
                                        1 (1975), 8. Tucker knew the older Weik as he grew up in
                                        Greencastle, "from that observation and the occasional
                                        sort of conversation that goes between a youth and mature
                                        man in a small town."
                                   3"Jesse W. Weik Passed Away Sunday
                                        Night," The Greencastle Daily Banner,
                                        August 18, 1930, p. 1; Weik diary, June 24, 1875, DC 1504,
                                        Archives of DePauw University and Indiana United Methodism,
                                                  Greencastle,
                                                  Indiana.
                                   4DePauw Alumnal
                                             Record, Jesse W. Weik, ed., (1918), p. 112;
                                        "Jesse W. Weik Passed Away Sunday Night," Daily Banner.
                                   5DePauw Alumnal
                                             Record, Jesse W. Weik, ed., (1918), p. 112.
                                   6"Jesse W. Weik Passed Away Sunday
                                        Night," Daily Banner.
                                   7"Jesse W Weik Passed Away Sunday
                                        Night," Daily Banner; "Facts
                                        About Lincoln's Early Life Preserved by Hoosier,"
                                             The Indianapolis Sunday Star,
                                        February 12, 1939, p. 19.
                                   8Ann Grifalconi won a Caldecott Honor
                                        Award in 1987 for her book The Village of Round
                                             and Square Houses. Association for Library
                                        Services to Children, "ALA Caldecott Medal & Honor
                                        Books, 1938-Present,"
                                        http://www.ala.org/ala/mgrps/divs/alsc/awardsgrants/bookmedia/calde
                                        cottmedal/caldecotthonors/caldecottmedal.cfm (accessed
                                        October 9, 2009).
                              
                               young Huey Long. Ridpath had come
                              to Asbury in 1869 and eventually became one of the best-known popular
                              historians of the time. After publishing his seminal Cyclopedia of Universal History, Ridpath moved first to
                                        Boston where he edited
                              The Arena, a muckraking journal, and finally to New
                                        York, where he was an editor in the
                              literary department of his publisher.9
                         Ridpath's intensity was felt both as teacher and scholar. While
                              Weik was a student, Ridpath regularly gave lectures. He took students
                              to visit great writers such as Henry Watterson in
                                        Louisville and
                              James Whitcomb Riley in Indianapolis. It was said that
                              "his concentration was so intense during the long periods he
                              spent at his writing table that a doctor would have to be summoned to
                              relieve him with a catheter."10 Weik's
                              diary of his Asbury years reflects regular interaction with
                                   Ridpath.11
                         Contrary to the prevailing strict rules of Asbury's Methodism, Weik
                              enjoyed going to the theater, often seeing his Professor Ridpath in
                              the front row. Weik also began travelling to Indianapolis, including one trip
                              to see Edwin Booth, the famous actor and brother of Lincoln's
                              assassin John Wilkes Booth.
                         Weik also commonly spent his time during his college years sending off
                              letters to national figures, a fact reflected in the diary he kept.
                              "The usual letter writing night," he once recorded.12 Weik's correspondents included Thomas
                              Carlyle, William Lloyd Garrison, Charles Francis Adams, and President
                              Charles Eliot, and sometimes this correspondence produced results.
                              "Received an autograph from William Cullen Bryant to-day,"
                              Weik noted.13 This fascination with famous people
                              was something he shared with Herndon, to whom some scholars have
                              credited at least part of Lincoln's rise in politics, based on
                              the active correspondence Herndon maintained with notables of the day,
                              bringing people and ideas to the office for Lincoln to encounter.




                         
                              9John Clark Ridpath, Cyclopedia
                                        of Universal History (Cincinnati, 1885); Ridpath,
                                        History of the World
                                             (New York,
                                   1897). Ridpath died in New York in 1900. Clifton J. Phillips and
                                   John J. Baughman, DePauw: A Pictorial History,
                                             (Greencastle,
                                             Ind., 1987),
                                   http://www.depauw
                                   .edu/library/archives/ehistory/chapter2/2index04.html (accessed
                                   October 9, 2009).
                              10Tucker, "Lincolns Jesse W.
                                   Weik," 8.
                              11For example, he gave his Junior speech to
                                   Ridpath for his critique. Weik diary, November 21, 1873.
                              12Ibid., October 17, 1875.
                              13Ibid., August 24, 1874.
                         
                    

                    


                    






                         FASCINATION WITH FAMOUS PEOPLE

                         Indeed, glimpses throughout Jesse Weik's early life consistently
                              suggest strong interest in the world of ideas and a particular
                              interest in well-known public figures, and his occasional brushes with
                              prominent men fit nicely alongside his very long interest in the world
                              of government and politics.
                         The involvement intensified while Weik was an Asbury student. He was a
                              member of the Philological Literary Society, a precursor to the modern
                              fraternity system, and one of the two rival groups at Asbury which
                              served as the school's chief extracurricular activity at the
                              time. Weik even held leadership positions there in his later college
                              days, with the society electing him its vice-president at the end of
                              his junior year. He ran for president, but was "gloriously
                                   defeated."14 When Weik graduated, he
                              delivered the valedictory for his "own beloved Philo
                                   Society."15
                         He also was a member of the "Good Templars Lodge," a
                              fraternity modeled on freemasonry and which advocated temperance.16 The Templars chose him for various offices
                              (once as "W.ES." and once as "Janitor," each of
                              which he held but briefly), and he served on a committee regarding
                              literary exercises. He went to the Grand Lodge of Good Templars in
                                        Indianapolis in
                              1874, and attended many temperance meetings while in college.17
                         Shortly after college, Weik started a club for young Republicans in
                                        Greencastle.
                              Although Putnam County at the time
                              was at the center of the north-south split in Indiana politics, both sides of
                              Weik's family had been stalwart Republicans. His father joined
                              the party shortly after 1861, and his maternal grandfather so
                              staunchly supported Lincoln in 1860 that he had his sons pick him up
                              and carry him to the polls, despite a leg injury that confined him to
                                   bed.18 Weik's grandfather died a week
                              later from the resulting exposure.



                         
                              14Ibid., November 20, 1874.
                              15Ibid., June 22, 1875.
                              16Weik diary, May 4, 1874; Wikipedia,
                                   "International Organisation of Good Templars,"
                                   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Organisation_of
                                   Good_Templars (accessed October 9, 2009).
                              17For example, see Weik diary, March 10,
                                   1874: Attended a "Temperance Social [at] the Good Templars
                                   Hall."
                              18Weik's father accepted a position as
                                   city councilman despite his refusal to run. Jesse Weik, A History of Putnam
                                                  County, Indiana,
                                             (Indianapolis, 1910), 706.
                         


                         









                         This commitment to the Republican Party during a period of its
                              ascendancy worked in concert with Weik's own energy, and placed
                              him well for participating in the patronage system. Even before he
                              published with Herndon, Weik was considered a rising star in the
                              Republican Party.19 During James A. Garfield's administration, he
                              held a position as State Examiner for the United States Pension
                                   Bureau.20 Later, in 1882, Weik obtained a
                              clerkship at the Interior Department's pension office in
                                        Washington, before being transferred to
                              serve as a special pension examiner in Springfield, Illinois, a few months later.21 He served as an examiner until 1885 and again
                              from 1891 to 1894. The appointment was in fact but one in a series of
                              political posts he either held or sought. Weik spent part of 1897, for
                              example, seeking a consulate from President McKinley before abandoning
                              that pursuit for a Terre
                                   Haute collectorship.22 He also sought appointment as secretary to the governor
                              of the Territory of New Mexico, but he did
                              not receive the position because he was not a Civil War veteran.23
                         Weik became a regular part of the Republican political apparatus. He
                              frequently served as a delegate from Putnam
                                   County to Indiana
                              Republican conventions, and sometimes served on its principal
                                   committees.24 He was elected a delegate to
                              the 1896 national Republican convention in St.
                                        Louis,25 and
                              served on the committee that notified William 
                                   19"The State Capital. Young
                                        Hoosier Republicans who Deserve Recognition at the Hands of
                                        the Party," Fort Wayne Gazette,
                                        February 17, 1884, p. 6.
                                   20Russel M. Seeds, ed., History of the Republican Party of Indiana (Indianapolis,
                                        1899), 312.
                                   21See note on "Applications and
                                        Appointments," Interior Department records of 1882, in
                                        Weik, The Real Lincoln, xxiii.
                                   22"Mr. Weik can obtain a
                                        dissolving view of the rear platform of his train going
                                        around a distant curve if he is quick about it. Judge Henry
                                        has that berth nailed down." "John Russell Young
                                        Tendered the Spanish Mission By President
                                        M'Kinley," Indiana State
                                        Journal, May 12, 1897, p. 3, col. B. See also
                                        "Office Seekers in Washington," Fort Wayne Gazette, March 25, 1897, p. 3,
                                        col. 4.
                                   23David Donald, Lincoln's Herndon, (New
                                                  York, 1948), 297. Donald
                                        was a two-time Pulitzer Prize winner in biography for his
                                        work on Charles Sumner and Thomas Wolfe and a professor of
                                        history at Harvard University. Lincoln's
                                             Herndon, Donalds first major work and the first
                                        book-length biography of Herndon, examines Herndon's
                                        life and his seminal work, and in so doing tells much about
                                        Lincoln as well. In his introduction to Lincoln's Herndon, Carl Sandburg wrote
                                        "The man Herndon comes bold and plain, the hovering
                                        silhouette of Lincoln in the background often moving to the
                                        fore in a speaking likeness and reality."
                                   24"Call for Annual Convention of
                                        Indiana State League of Republican Clubs," Fort Wayne Gazette, January 27, 1899, p.
                                        4.
                                   25History of the
                                             Republican Party of Indiana, 312. Charles
                                        W. Fairbanks congratulated Weik on his election to the
                                        convention. Charles W Fairbanks to Weik, March 20, 1896,
                                        Herndon-Weik
                              
                               McKinley in
                                        Canton,
                                        Ohio, of his nomination for the
                              presidency. In 1898, Weik launched an unsuccessful bid for election as
                              Clerk of the Indiana Supreme Court. One newspaper recounted his
                              reaction to this defeat, saying that he "poured forth his
                              sentiments on the occasion in a flowery speech in German" at the
                              Republican state convention.26 In 1900, Weik
                              similarly lost the Republican nomination for Reporter of the Supreme
                                   Court.27
                         These serial political ventures once resulted in a nationally-noticed
                              indictment. After serving as a postal inspector under Benjamin
                              Harrison, Weik forged the new Postmaster General's signature and
                              continued using his credentials to travel on railroads across the
                              country. Tipped off, the government sent an inspector to track him
                              down, and the inspector caught Weik in the act of offering the forged
                              pass to a conductor on the Terre
                                   Haute & Indianapolis railroad. When the
                              inspector asked the conductor to secure Weik's credentials, Weik
                              somehow became conscious of his predicament and jumped off the moving
                              train, seriously injuring himself. The credentials then went missing
                              for a time, so the only charges initially brought were three counts of
                              impersonating an officer. A railroad section hand, however, eventually
                              found the forged documentation in a cattle guard near where Weik
                              jumped off. The District Attorney thereafter pressed the fourth, most
                              serious charge -- forging the name of Postmaster General Charles Emory
                              Smith -- and the news made the papers around the nation.28 In the end, though, it appears that Weik 
                                   Collection of Lincolniana, reel 13, p. 747, Manuscripts
                                        Division, Library of Congress. Fairbanks delivered that
                                        year's keynote address and was first elected Senator
                                        from Indiana that year.
                                   26"Mounts Views," Logansport Pharos, December 24, 1898, p.
                                        4, col. 3.
                                   27"Local News," Fort Wayne Gazette, March 2, 1900, p. 3 (Weik was
                                        in Ft.
                                             Wayne calling on political
                                        friends for support); "Crowds Are Gathering," Fort Wayne Morning Journal-Gazette, April
                                        24, 1900, p. 4; "Candidates Rounding Up," Logansport Daily Journal, April 7, 1900,
                                        p. 1 (lists candidates -- Weik, Charles E Remy of Columbus, and
                                        Leroy B. Nash of Tipton). Weik did serve on the
                                                  Greencastle school
                                        board. History of the Republican Party of
                                             Indiana, 312.
                                   28"Federal Grand Jury Will
                                        Investigate Counterfeiting and Election Cases," Logansport Daily Reporter, November 14,
                                        1900, p. 3; "Weik in Deep Water: Author of 'Life
                                        of Lincoln' Indicted for Forgery," Fort Wayne Journal Gazette, November 24, 1900, p.
                                        1; "Former Official Indicted," Coshocton (OH) Daily Times, November 24, 1900, p.
                                        4; "Politician Accused of Forging the Signature of a
                                        Cabinet Officer: Jesse Weik of Greencastle,
                                                  Ind., Who
                                        Narrowly Escaped Death in Attempting to Avoid Arrest,
                                        Indicted by Federal Grand Jury," Chicago
                                             Daily Tribune, November 24, 1900, p. 4;
                                        "Former Official Indicted," New York
                                             Daily Advocate, November 24, 1900, p. 12;
                                        "Forged Cabinet Official's Signature," Frederick (MD) News, November 24,
                                        1900,
                              
                               may somehow have eventually
                              managed to "make this go away"; one newspaper speculated
                              that multiple postponements of the trial date suggested President
                              McKinley's administration seemed uninterested in pushing the
                                   case.29
                    

                    
                         THE COLLABORATION OF HERNDON AND WEIK 
                         Political appointments and advancement were not the full extent of
                              Weik's life in those years, however, and did not occupy all of
                              either his time or his efforts. In 1881, then twenty-five-year-old
                              Jesse Weik had written to Herndon requesting an autograph, and Herndon
                              sent him a page from one of Lincoln's handwritten notebooks.30 The sheet contained Lincoln's arithmetic
                              lessons and the couplet: 
                                        "Abraham Lincoln, his hand and pen
                                        He will be good, but God knows when."31
                                   
                         Weik was extremely grateful for the page and asked permission to publish
                              it in the local newspaper, to which Herndon agreed. Years later, in
                                        Greencastle, that
                              brief collaboration would once more pay dividends.
                         Almost immediately after Lincoln's assassination, William Herndon
                              had begun interviewing individuals close to Lincoln and collecting
                              letters and other memorabilia from his lifetime. Unfortunately, as a
                              result of the scandalous nature of some of his information and his
                              personal disposition and life affairs, Herndon could not seem to bring
                              the great work he had in mind to completion. The project stalled for
                              more than a decade.






                         
                              p. 1; "A Clever Swindler: Posed as Government
                                   Official -- Forged Secretary Smith's Name," New Brunswick (NJ) Daily Times, November 24, 1900, p.
                                   3.
                              29"Weik's Trial Continued,"
                                        Ft. Wayne Weekly Sentinel, October 3,
                                   1900, p. 3.
                              30William H. Herndon to Jesse W. Weik,
                                   October 1 and October 8, 1881, Herndon-Weik Collection of
                                   Lincolniana, Library of Congress (as cited in Douglas L. Wilson
                                   and Rodney O. Davis, Editor's Introduction to Herndon's Lincoln by William H. Herndon and Jesse
                                   W. Weik, The Knox College Lincoln Studies Center Series (Urbana,
                                   Ill., 2006), xxiv). This twenty-two page introduction by the
                                   editors outlines the history of the original's creation,
                                   including the relationship between Herndon and Weik. Douglas L.
                                   Wilson and Rodney O. Davis are co-directors of the Lincoln
                                   Studies Center at Knox College in Galesburg, Illinois. Wilson won the Lincoln
                                   Prize for both his Honor's Voice: The
                                        Transformation of Abraham Lincoln
                                             (New York, 1998)
                                   and his Lincoln's Sword: The Presidency and the
                                        Power of Words (New
                                        York, 2006). They recently
                                   co-edited The Lincoln-Douglas Debates: The Lincoln
                                        Studies Edition (Urbana, Ill., 2008).
                              31Tucker, "Lincoln's Jesse W.
                                   Weik," 9, citing Jesse W. Weik, The Real
                                        Lincoln, 23.
                         


                         



                         
                              "With a federal courtroom and post office in the
                                   same building, and the county courthouse one block away,"
                                   Lincoln and Herndon's Law Offices at the corner of Sixth and
                                   Adams streets, Springfield,
                                             Illinois, were
                                   ideally located. In later years, they would also prove a treasure
                                   trove to Weik in his efforts to write the president's
                                   biography.
                               Prints and Photographs Division, Library of
                                   Congress. "With Malice Toward None: The Abraham Lincoln
                                   Bicentennial Exhibition"
                                   (http://www.myloc.gov/Exhibitions/lincoln/Pages/Default.aspx)
                         


                         By 1882, Weik had taken up his pension agent's post in
                                        Springfield. He
                              soon tracked down Herndon once more, and asked him for a tour of the
                              back room of the old Lincoln & Herndon law office, where the pair
                              of them rummaged through boxes of Lincoln papers. Weik's delight
                              in this encounter prompted him to further research on his own,
                              interviewing individuals who had known Lincoln (including
                              Lincoln's sister-in-law Mrs. Ninian Edwards) and visiting old
                              courthouses. Weik would later tell his daughter about his assessment
                              of doing research at Springfield: "The whole town is
                              full of Lincoln legends. . . . Every family has inherited one or two
                              of its own. Some are fantastic. You have to sort out the truth from
                              the cobwebs."32 Shortly thereafter, Weik
                              moved back to Greencastle and
                              continued his correspondence with Herndon. After Weik asked Herndon
                              about the possibility of collaborating on an article about Lincoln for
                                   Harper's Weekly, Herndon began sending him
                              a 
                                   32Mary Hays Weik, "My Father and
                                        Lincoln," September 1968, Herndon-Weik Collection of
                                        Lincolniana, box 36 [unfilmed], Library of Congress (written
                                        for Glenn Tucker).
                              
                               series of detailed letters. In
                              three months' time, Herndon mailed Weik thirty-five long letters
                              replete with details about Lincoln's pre-presidential life. In
                              July 1886, Weik contributed a Lincoln article to the Cincinnati Commercial Gazette.33
                              Herndon by contrast found himself rebuffed by papers like The Chicago
                              Tribune and the British newspaper The Graphic.
                         Besides corresponding with Herndon, Weik spent his time in
                                        Greencastle
                              helping his aging father run the family's grocery store.
                              Jesse's brothers were away or off at school, so he assumed the
                              role of dutiful oldest son and worked as the store clerk, eventually
                              earning a partnership with his father. He moved into a room above the
                              store, "where he could slip away now and then from behind the
                              counter to work at his writing upstairs."34
                         Herndon came to see Weik occasionally, starting in March 1885, and
                              occasionally lectured at DePauw. It was during this time, as Herndon
                              told Weik more stories about Lincoln, when Herndon put forth his
                              theory that Lincoln's conception was a result of his
                              mother's infidelity. In fact, Herndon still desired to write a
                              full Lincoln biography, but did not enjoy the mechanics of writing.35 Eventually he wrote to Weik asking if he would
                              be interested in writing a book about Lincoln, and they soon began
                              planning a series of articles to be published in book form.
                         In 1886, the two of them drew up a contract and Herndon sent Weik what
                              he called his "Lincoln Records," the archive of letters,
                              interviews, and research materials he had assembled over time,
                              including testimony of some 250 informants. Herndon envisioned a
                              subjective, unconventional, nonlinear biography of Lincoln's life
                              emphasizing Lincoln's special qualities, rather than a
                              traditional narrative presentation, but Weik pictured a narrative,
                              chronological format ending when Lincoln became president,
                              "leaving him a grand figure standing up against the clear deep
                              blue sky of the future."36 After sorting
                              through Herndon's file, Weik noticed some gaps in the available
                              information. In March 1887, Weik went to Lexington, Paris, and Elizabethtown in 
                                   33"Lincoln's Early
                                        Life," Cincinnati Commercial Gazette,
                                        July 11, 1886, p. 14.
                                   34Mary Hays Weik, "My Father and
                                        Lincoln," 3.
                                   35Donald, Lincoln's
                                             Herndon, 300.
                                   36Herndon to Weik, December 13, 1886,
                                        Herndon-Weik Collection, Library of Congress, as cited in
                                        Lincoln, Editor's Introduction, pp. xxvi,
                                        xxviii.
                              
                              
                              Kentucky, hoping to interview people
                              with memories of Lincoln as a youth, but the trip produced little.
                         By the summer of 1887, the partners were finally ready to start writing.
                              Herndon planned to join Weik in Greencastle to begin the writing
                              process, but when the time came he was in such dire financial straits
                              that he was unable to afford the trip. He wrote to Weik, asking for
                              money in return for some Lincoln materials. Weik agreed, and Herndon
                              left home on the first day of August.
                         Once Herndon arrived in Greencastle, "[a] second room
                              (after Weik's own) above the store was fitted up for Herndon, and
                              here, between wrapping cheese and bagging potatoes downstairs in the
                              store, [Weik] escaped now and then to Herndon's room to work with
                              him on their book -- running out occasionally (as his diaries relate) to
                              buy Mr. Herndon tobacco."37 The
                              building's tin roof ensured miserably hot temperatures in the
                              summer heat. They wrote tirelessly, sometimes until eleven at night.
                              Herndon produced dozens of chapters on various topics, designed to be
                              rough drafts which Weik was to compile and edit, but Weik found them
                              almost impossible to work with.38 After this
                              month-long writing session, Herndon was worn out and considered the
                              book basically complete, so he took a train back to
                                        Springfield.
                              Weik, who viewed the biography as far from finished, immediately began
                              revising it, perhaps unbeknownst to Herndon.
                         Weik transformed the text of the biography, attempting to maintain the
                              essence of Herndon's passages while improving the language and
                              flow. He filtered Herndon's views, making the passages more
                              upbeat and probably enhancing the biography's eventual appeal to
                              the general public. He also took liberties when summarizing the
                              contents of some of Herndon's interviews,39
                              and followed Herndon's drafts in just five of the 
                                   37Mary Hays Weik, "My Father and
                                        Lincoln," 3.
                                   38Douglas L. Wilson and Rodney O.
                                        Davis, Editor Interview, Abraham Lincoln Online,
                                        http://showcase.netins.net/web/creative/lincoln/books/herndon.htm
                                        (accessed on October 9, 2009). Donald, Lincoln's Herndon, 318.
                                   39For example, Weik altered
                                        Herndon's notes from their rudimentary form into a more
                                        conversational form. From Herndon's notes from an
                                        interview with Henry Dummer: "Lincoln used to come to
                                        our office in Spfgd and borrow books .
                                        . ." becomes "Lincoln used to come to our
                                        office -- Stuart's and mine -- in Springfield from
                                                  New
                                                  Salem and borrow
                                        law-books." Weik's pattern of recasting Herndons
                                        language in this way often was substantially harmless, but
                                        sometimes resulted in inaccurate or seemingly unfounded
                                        statements. Editor's Introduction, Herndon and Weik,
                                             Herndon's Lincoln, Knox College
                                        Series, xxx.
                              
                               twenty chapters.40 Ultimately, the book was almost exclusively Weik's
                                   composition.41 In a preface signed by
                              Herndon, the senior partner wrote that he was "assisted in the
                              preparation of the book by Mr. Jesse W Weik of Greencastle, Ind., whose industry, patience and literary
                              zeal have not only lessened my labors, but have secured for him the
                              approbation of Lincoln's friends and admirers."42 All told, the final work combined twenty years
                              of Herndon's collecting, five years of Weik's follow-up and
                              more intensive research, and three years' writing time. It is
                              this last part to which Weik contributed most, and which makes him
                              vital to the work's existence.
                         The Herndon-Weik biography faced strong competition. A recently written
                              biography by John Hay and John G. Nicolay, Lincoln's wartime
                              secretaries, was serialized in Century Magazine and
                              later published as their ten-volume Abraham Lincoln: A
                                   History.43 Because Hay and Nicolay
                              focused on Lincoln's presidential years, though, Herndon did not
                              view their work as competition; after all, the Herndon-Weik book was
                              about Lincoln's personal life before the White House. Many
                              publishers disagreed, though, believing that the Nicolay-Hay biography
                              had cornered the market.44 Another source of worry
                              was the costly failure of Ward Hill Lamon's 1872 biography.45 Lamon's work was based on papers he had
                              purchased from Herndon, and the public rejected it due to some controversial contents.46 These included references to
                              Lincoln's and his mother's illegitimate births, his
                              "shrewd game" of masquerading as a Christian, and his
                              domestic difficulties.47 The Herndon-Weik
                              biography contained similar passages likely to offend.




                         
                              40Chapters VI (the Lincoln-Rutledge
                                   romance), IX (the Lincoln-Todd wedding), XI (Lincoln as a
                                   lawyer), XIV (Lincoln's domestic difficulties), and XX
                                   (analysis of Lincoln's character). Donald, Lincoln's Herndon, 318 n.44.
                              41Donald, Lincoln's
                                        Herndon, 318.
                              42See Herndon in preface to Herndon and
                                   Weik, Herndon's Lincoln, Knox College
                                   Series, 5.
                              43John J. Nicolay and John Hay, Abraham Lincoln: A History (New
                                             York, 1890).
                              44See Charles L. Webster & Co. to Weik,
                                   Nov 4, 188[6], Weik MSS, as cited in Donald, Lincoln's Herndon, 311-12, n.14.
                              45Ward Hill Lamon, The Life of
                                        Abraham Lincoln; From His Birth to His Inauguration as
                                        President (Boston, Mass., 1872). Lamon had actually
                                   partnered with Buchanan Democrat and anti-Lincoln author
                                   Chauncey E Black, who agreed to ghostwrite the text, but Black is
                                   not credited in the published work. Donald, Lincoln's Herndon, 253, 266-67.
                              46Donald, Lincoln's
                                        Herndon, 269-70.
                              47Lamon, The Life of Abraham
                                        Lincoln, as cited in Donald, Lincoln's Herndon, 268-69.
                         


                         








                         After suffering multiple rejections by publishers, Herndon and Weik
                              finally settled on Belford, Clarke & Company of
                                        Chicago, a third-
                              rate outfit with a reputation for reckless business practices and a
                              lack of concern regarding criticism.48 The company
                              viewed the Herndon-Weik biography as a good opportunity to gain
                              publicity. The publishers' deal was a tough one: they took all
                              revenue from the sale of the first 1,500 copies, and any profits above
                              that were to be equally divided between the publishers and Weik.
                         After the manuscript went to the press, Herndon and Weik discovered that
                              quite a few tasks remained, including finding people who had known
                              Lincoln and were willing to have their photographs published in the
                              book. Weik and Herndon soon became frustrated with their publisher,
                              too, who had unilaterally decided to change the title and to remove
                              long passages dealing with Lincoln's early life. When Herndon
                              received the page proofs, he suggested many corrections to the text;
                              since making corrections at that stage would have been costly, most
                              were subsequently disregarded.
                         During the final editing, Ridpath encouraged him to take a greater
                              ownership role in the product, rather than merely being listed as an
                              editor. The publisher agreed that the book should include a statement
                              describing Herndon and Weik's roles in its creation. Weik
                              submitted a new preface for Herndon's approval. He gave himself
                              exclusive credit for composing the biography, while Herndon received
                              credit for gathering information. Herndon was insulted and responded
                              that the new preface would ruin the book because it was supposed to be
                              from Herndon's vantage point. The eventual resolution was
                              amicable, with Herndon and Weik listed as coauthors on the title page
                              and Herndon given additional credit in the preface for his work
                              collecting material.
                         After what Herndon considered painstaking delay, the book was finally
                              released in July 1889 as Herndon's Lincoln: The True
                                   Story of a Great Life, The History and Personal Recollections of
                                   Abraham Lincoln. The three-volume biography sold for between
                              $4.50 and $9.00, depending on the material in which it was bound. It
                              was well-received by many critics, who had feared a far more
                              disparaging account of Lincoln's life. The Illinois
                                   State Register, for example, compared it favorably to other
                                   
                                   48See Publisher's Weekly XXXVI,
                                        470, 478, 540, 637, 693, as cited in Donald, Lincoln's Herndon, 323.
                              
                               biographies by saying that none
                              "approach this in faithful portrayal of his real life."49 The biography's honesty was repeatedly
                              commended. The Literary World applauded its
                              "honesty and shrewdness."50 To be sure,
                              there were negative evaluations -- Life called it
                              "lacking the finish of expert work" -- but they were far
                              outweighed by the positive reviews.51
                         Unfortunately, the relatively short press run soon made copies hard to
                              find, especially after the publisher went bankrupt. Worse, when the
                              book was eventually re-released, though it was published in its
                              original form, it was advertised as a second edition. Herndon's
                              dreamy anticipation of royalties foundered still further when Belford
                              Clark Company distributed only $110 to the authors, claiming that many
                              of the newly printed copies had been distributed to reviewers. Herndon
                              was furious; he even momentarily accused Weik of conspiring with the
                              publishers, before later apologizing. In the end, the absence of the
                              hoped-for profit levels largely reflected the fact that neither
                              Herndon nor Weik was a particularly savvy businessman.
                         Luckily, Horace White of the New York Evening Post,
                              who had covered Lincoln and Douglas for the Chicago
                                   Tribune, was willing to get involved. He gave Weik and
                              Herndon suggestions (such as proposing to remove a few of the more
                              controversial segments of the book), and took a substantial role in
                              managing their affairs. For the third edition, White found a more
                              reputable publisher, Charles Scribner's Sons. Herndon and Weik
                              were working on this new edition when Herndon died in 1891. In 1892,
                              Weik published the revised version of the book, titled 
                                   49Illinois State
                                             Register, Aug. 11, 1889 ("There have been
                                        other lives of Lincoln written, but none that approaches
                                        this in the faithful portrayal of his real life, from his
                                        humble birth to his martyred death"); Cincinnati Enquirer, July 5, 1889 ("Mr.
                                        Herndon comes nearer giving the general reader an insight to
                                        the real Lincoln than any one of the many writers who have
                                        made attempts in that direction"); Portland Eastern Argus, July 13, 1889
                                        ("casts all other [Lincoln] biographies] into the
                                        shade"); Boston Commercial, August
                                        17, 1889 ("Herndons 'Life of Lincoln' is a
                                        history worthy of Macaulay") all as cited in Donald,
                                             Lincoln's Herndon, 331.
                                   50Literary World 20,
                                        253; see also Nation 49 (August 29, 1889),
                                        173-74 ("Mr. Herndons personal recollections of Lincoln
                                        ... will doubtless remain the most authentic and trustworthy
                                        source of information concerning [Lincoln] prior to his
                                        election to the Presidency"), both as cited in Donald,
                                             Lincoln's Herndon, 333.
                                   51Life, July 25, 1889
                                        ("a rugged picture, lacking the finish of expert work,
                                        but very interesting and suggestive"); Decatur Republican, July 15, 1889 ("the
                                        vaporings of a silly old man"); Nebraska
                                             State Journal, undated clipping, Lincoln National
                                        Life Foundation ("a gross, and infamous slander from
                                        beginning to end," "the work of a sneak and a
                                        villain"), all as cited in Donald, Lincoln's Herndon, 333-34.
                              
                              
                              Abraham Lincoln: The True Story of a Great Life
                                        (New York: D.
                              Appleton. 2 vols.).
                    
                    

                         WEIK THE WRITER AND LECTURER

                         From early in Weik's life, he displayed an interest in public
                              speaking and writing. He was elected the second essayist at
                              commencement during his junior year at Asbury, where he delivered a
                              work titled "This one thing I do."52 In
                              Weik's senior year, he delivered a second speech, titled
                              "Out of the Ruts."53 From his youth
                              onward, Weik likewise frequently spread his opinions in print,
                              contributing to the Greencastle newspapers.54
                         By the time of his encounters with Herndon, Weik was already reaching
                              out to papers once more, this time in other states. He submitted an
                              article to the Cincinnati Commercial Gazette while
                              he was collaborating with Herndon in July 1886, but the paper did not
                              credit his work or pay him. The half-page article detailed the
                              collection of J. W. Keyes. A Springfield native and a nephew of a
                              Lincoln acquaintance, Keyes's collection consisted of office
                              furniture and accessories as well as a few pieces from the Lincoln
                              home in Springfield.55
                         Weik's writing frequently focused on Lincoln. Weik quoted Herndon,
                              "Lincoln read less and thought more than any other man of his day
                              and generation,"56 and wrote an essay titled
                              "Some Traces of Lincoln's Eloquence," about the second
                              inaugural, attributing some of its tone and content to Horace White.
                                   Harpers Weekly published it on February 15,
                              1896. The New York-based
                              weekly journal The Outlook likewise published an
                              article Weik wrote on the Gettysburg Address for the fiftieth
                              anniversary of the speech. His continued collecting of Lincoln
                              materials made Weik a subject of news throughout his life, as he 
                                   52Weik diary, February 27, June 23,
                                        1874.
                                   53Weik diary, November 20, 1874.
                                   54For instance, he and
                                                  Greencastle chum Tom Lee
                                        once travelled to Putnamville after a fire
                                        "destroyed a quantity of property" and
                                        "secured a report of the occurrence for the
                                        press." Weik diary, May 26, 1878. Weik's diary
                                        indicates that he was contributing to local papers as early
                                        as 1874.
                                   55Keyes had also collected
                                        correspondence relating to Lincoln, including a letter
                                        penned by Herndon reflecting on Lincoln in 1886.
                                        "Lincoln's Early Life: Mementos of Great
                                        Value," Cincinnati Commercial
                                        Gazette, July 11, 1886, p. 14.
                                   56Tucker, "Lincoln's Jesse W.
                                        Weik," 11.
                              
                               released noteworthy documents
                              piecemeal throughout his own research.57 Weik
                              contributed to the Century, Atlantic
                                   Monthly, Harper's Weekly, and The Republican, among others,58
                              and worked as editor of the DePauw Alumnal
                                   Record.59 Likewise, Weik's research
                              trips continued long after his collaboration with Herndon, with
                              frequent travels to Illinois and
                                        Kentucky. When the Indianapolis Star named him one of "Who's
                              Who Among Hoosier Authors," it said: "he has studied the
                              career and achievements of the immortal railsplitter more profoundly
                              and with more zeal, perhaps, than any other American now
                                   living."60 Another observer had a
                              different slant: "Jesse Weik was more a reporter than an analyst,
                              essentially a narrator, and ... historical narration stands among the
                              highest forms of literary art."61;
                         Weik also lectured about Lincoln. Ridpath once described the special
                              nature of these orations, observing that a Weik lecture "differs
                              from all other Lincoln lectures in that it is a vivid and realistic
                              transcript of the man himself."62
                         As national interest in Lincoln grew and Lincoln organizations appeared
                              and expanded, Weik became a desired commodity. When the flagship
                              Lincoln Fellowship assembled at Delmonico's in
                                        New York for its
                              first dinner in 1908, the organizers felt the need to include a
                              written endorsement from Weik -- alongside the likes of Robert Todd
                              Lincoln and Grover Cleveland -- in their program.63
                              The Lincoln Fellowship still survives in various state chapters.
                         Similarly, Weik was a founding member of the Order of Lincoln in 1895.
                              When the group convened in New
                                   York, he was elected 
                                   57"Retracing Lincoln Road East of
                                                  Illinois: A
                                        Conversation Between Abraham Lincoln and Colonel Chapman
                                        Recalled by Jesse W. Weik Important," Waterloo (Iowa) Times-Tribune, December 13, 1913,
                                        p. 1.
                                   58"Jesse W. Weik Passed Away
                                        Sunday Night," Daily Banner.
                                   59John Braeman, "Albert J.
                                        Beveridge and Demythologizing Lincoln," Journal of the Abraham Lincoln Association, 25
                                        (Summer 2004), 9.
                                   60"Who's Who Among Hoosier
                                        Authors," Indianapolis Star, June 23,
                                        1915, p. 8. In addition to Weik's biography and work on
                                        Lincoln, the article mentions Weik's writing on the
                                        telephone industry.
                                   61Tucker, "Lincolns Jesse W.
                                        Weik," 11.
                                   62John Clark Ridpath to Weik, October
                                        16, 1890, Herndon-Weik Collection of Lincolniana, reel 13,
                                        p. 558, Library of Congress.
                                   63Proceedings at the First
                                             Annual Meeting and Dinner of the Lincoln Fellowship,
                                             held at Delmonico's, New
                                                  York City, Wednesday,
                                             February 12th, 1908 (New
                                                  York, 1908), 10.
                              
                               Supreme chaplain and
                                   historian.64 (Justice Robert McBride of the
                                        Indiana Supreme Court,
                              who as a young soldier had been a Lincoln bodyguard, became
                              vice-president.) This positioned Weik to travel the state as new
                              Lincoln Lodges were founded, giving speeches and making
                                   connections.65 Always the joiner, Weik was a
                              member of the American Historical Association, Lincoln's
                              Fellowship Club of New York, and the Author's Club of London.
                         Weik was also an enthusiastic participant in public sector Lincoln
                              activities. In 1915, Indiana Governor Samuel
                              M. Ralston appointed Weik to the Lincoln Highway Commission, the
                              purpose of which was to trace the Lincoln family's 1830 path to
                                        Illinois.
                                        Illinois had recently
                              completed a similar report. Much was at stake for the small Hoosier
                              communities vying for a spot along the route, and the campaign for
                              commission appointments had been hotly contested. Several of
                              Weik's friends wrote the governor to recommend him, and Weik
                              eventually became the commission's secretary. The commission
                              caused quite a controversy, and as soon as it issued a final report in
                              late December 1916, the Indiana General Assembly sought to begin a
                              second study.66
                         Still, Weik was not finished with serious volumes. He continued to build
                              Herndon's Lincoln archive, and in 1922, published a book titled
                                   The Real Lincoln: A Portrait. Weik told people
                              that Leonard Swett, who rode the circuit with Lincoln as a fellow
                              lawyer, had prodded him to follow up the Herndon biography -- which Swett
                              and several other Lincoln contemporaries had perceived as falling
                              short. More precisely, Swett emphasized that Lincoln's greatest
                              abilities were as a lawyer, not as a statesman. He encouraged Weik to
                              reveal this part of the president's life more thoroughly. Weik
                              determined to frame the book so that Lincoln's "office and
                              his home should be made to swing open and the light turned on so that
                              we may indeed view him as a man."67 He worked
                              on the book 
                                   64"A New Order: A Lincolniana
                                        Museum to be Established in This State," Fort Wayne Weekly Gazette, November 28, 1895, p.
                                        5.
                                   65"Banquets Galore. The Order of
                                        Lincoln Lodge No. 6 Organizes Social Diversions," Fort Wayne Journal Gazette, May 12, 1896.
                                        (Weik delivered his speech titled "Lincoln the
                                        Man" for the first meeting of Lodge No. 2 in Ft.
                                        Wayne); "The 'Order of Lincoln.' An
                                        Organization to Perpetuate His Memory," Logansport Journal, August 15, 1896, p. 8 (Weik
                                        delivered "Lincoln the Man" at
                                                  Logansport's first
                                        meeting).
                                   66"Legislature will resume
                                        sessions," Fort Wayne
                                        Journal-Gazette, January 25, 1917, pp. 1 &
                                        6.
                                   67Tucker, "Lincoln's Jesse W.
                                        Weik," 10.
                              
                               mainly in Greencastle and finished his work
                              in August 1921, at which point Senator Albert Beveridge interceded
                              with Houghton Mifflin, persuading them to publish The
                                   Real Lincoln.68
                         Weik's solo biography used both the Herndon papers and material
                              Weik had collected in the intervening three decades to portray aspects
                              of Lincoln's life never before presented to the public. Critical
                              reaction paralleled the reception of Herndon's
                                   Lincoln. The Outlook review pronounced it
                              a "genuine advance over Herndon's work," and went on to
                              state that while the work, like Herndon's, offered "no
                              'interpretation' of his life," the two men were
                              "historians of the highest order -- collectors of facts, urged on in
                              their work by a deep love for the many whose humanity they have helped
                              mightily to establish for all time."69
                              The Nation lauded the book as a series of
                              "interesting episodic phases of his life," and stated that
                              Weik was "at his best in the five chapters in which he tells of
                              Lincoln as a lawyer."70
                         The book's symmetry with the spirit of Herndon's
                                   Lincoln appealed to the public.71
                              The Real Lincoln and Weik's underlying research
                              quickly became a source for many subsequent works.72 As these new works -- like that of Carl Sandburg -- appeared,
                              the critics frequently mentioned Weik's Real Lincoln among modern
                              additions to the canon.73
                         While Lincoln was the work of Weik's life, he nonetheless produced
                              important pieces on other subjects. In 1910, B.E Bowen & 
                                   68Braeman, "Albert J. Beveridge
                                        and Demythologizing Lincoln," 9.
                                   69Tucker, "Lincoln's Jesse W.
                                        Weik," 11, citing Outlook, February
                                        27, 1924.
                                   70Ibid., citing Nation, February 21, 1923.
                                   71"Destroying Historic
                                        Myths," Elyria
                                                  (Ohio)
                                             Chronicle-Telegram, October 9, 1923, p. 12. This
                                        book review of Weik's biography described it as "a
                                        picture of the real Lincoln. Not the man who has become
                                        enshrined as a myth, but the man who was mortal like the
                                        rest of us, who through terrible loneliness and crushing
                                        responsibility grew to be the sublimest figure of our
                                        national history." It concluded, "Truth will rip
                                        the deserved halo from no man's brow."
                                   72"Chairman Durbin's History
                                        of the Democratic Party," Mexia
                                                  (Texas) Daily
                                             News, October 1, 1923, p. 2. This book review
                                        notes that the reviewed work cites The Real
                                             Lincoln for the assertion that Lincoln only
                                        praised Washington and Jefferson, a Democrat. Lloyd Lewis,
                                        "Toy of the Great Myth," Charleston
                                             Gazette, October 21, 1928, part 3, p. 4. This book
                                        review of Beveridges Lincoln biography mentioned Weik as the
                                        source for Herndon's notes and stated that Herndon
                                        haunted the work.
                                   73"The Many-Sided Lincoln,"
                                             Elyria
                                                  (Ohio)
                                             Chronicle-Telegram, March 29, 1926, p. 12. On the
                                        occasion of the publication of Carl Sandburg's
                                        biography, this review notes that "Within the last ten
                                        years, four striking books have been written on Lincoln,
                                        each of them unique in their way. ... There was the real
                                        life of Jesse Weik, which stripped him of some of the
                                        mythical and super- human virtues with which a process of
                                        idealization had clothed him."
                              
                               Company published his History of Putnam
                                        County.74 Like
                              other county histories, Weik's volume covered the local
                              waterfront, featuring topics like Putnam
                                   County's formation, the courts and the
                              bar, education in Putnam county, church
                              history and religious societies, banks, journalism, the townships of
                                        Putnam County,
                                        Putnam's military
                              records, noted murder trials, and the city of Greencastle. To this day,
                              Weik's volume is the leading source of information about the life
                              and history of Putnam County.75
                         Weik undertook another very substantial tome after the 1908 Republican
                              convention, when a Chicago publisher contracted him to
                              produce a History of the Republican National Convention
                                   of 1908. Weik later wrote to White that "in order to
                              earn a little ready money I'm doing a bit of hackwork these dog
                              days. Some time ago I contracted with a Chicago publisher to write what he
                              has entitled a History of the Republican National
                                   Convention of 1908. It is a work which is mainly a
                              collection of biographical sketches and portraits of the delegates
                              with just enough historical matter to give it the appearance of having
                              been 'hand-made.' "76 Weik
                              undersold his 530-page product. To be sure, the book contained
                              hundreds of biographies listed by state delegation; but it also
                              featured lengthy pieces about the founding of the party and about the
                              Lincoln years, plus reports on every national convention from 1856 on.
                              Weik's introduction declared that the Republican Party had
                              forwarded "a decided advance in the civilization of the
                                   world."77
                         Beveridge and others encouraged Weik to write a study of Herndon.78 With publishers inquiring about the project,
                              he worked on it for several years, but finally put away all his
                              Herndon materials into boxes "tied with the red legal tape that
                              was the only thing he ever used from the training he underwent in the
                              law as a young man."79




                         
                              74Weik, A History of
                                                  Putnam County,
                                                  Indiana.
                              75Rick Monroe, Local History and Genealogy
                                   Dept., Putnam County Public Library, email message to Josh Tatum,
                                   January 27, 2009. ("This 785 page book is the most common
                                   reference used by nearly all the books we have here on
                                             Putnam County
                                   history.")
                              76Burlingame, Editor's Introduction,
                                        The Real Lincoln, xxv, citing Weik to
                                   White, July 26, 1908, Horace White Papers, Illinois State
                                   Historical Library, Springfield.
                              77Jesse Weik, History of the
                                        Republican Party and National Convention of 1908
                                             (Chicago,
                                             Ill., 1908),
                                   7.
                              78Mary Hays Weik, "My Father and
                                   Lincoln," 3.
                              79Ibid., 4.
                         


                         




                         
                              Writer, lecturer, Republican political operative, entrepreneur, and
                                   local celebrity, Jesse Weik had become a nationally recognized
                                   authority on the life of Abraham Lincoln by the time this
                                   photograph was taken in his later years.
                              Courtesy DePauw University Archives
                         


                         Weik's daughter Mary Hays Weik once gave a description of her
                              father's approach to writing. "For him, writing history was
                              a slow and careful process, for he saw it as a kind of great mosaic,
                              into which each carefully researched fact would fit and add its
                              pattern. If the parts were untrue or falsely colored, the whole, he
                              felt, was betrayed."80 According to his
                              daughter, as time went on, Weik "kept more and more to himself,
                              made sensitive by local jests" about his long obsession over
                                   Lincoln."81
                         Weik was "animated and outgoing, of medium height, somewhat fleshy,
                              and facile in conversation as with pen. Possessing a massive head
                                   
                                   80Ibid., 3.
                                   81Ibid.
                              
                               with white hair, he was
                              prematurely white-haired at thirty."82 In
                              time, Weik became something of a local celebrity himself, deserving a
                              mention in Indiana towns'
                              newspapers just for being spotted.83 "He
                              spent most of his day at home, dressed like a farmer in faded blue
                              overalls that somehow went with his curly white hair and pink innocent
                              face. Early in the morning he would go to work in his garden -- some
                              hours after, in a dripping sweat, he would come indoors, down a huge
                              cup of cold cistern water, and go upstairs to his desk. There he would
                              study and write, in a small, neat, illegible hand, with few
                              corrections. At 3 in the afternoon he would go down to the telephone
                              office, where a bookkeeper he trusted kept meticulous accounts and
                              listened to customers' complaints. When he walked home at
                              suppertime (we never had a carriage or a car) he brought office
                              records and papers with him to work on at night."84
                    

                    
                         HOW DID WEIK EARN A LIVING?

                         Despite his renown, Weik never earned any real money from the activity
                              that brought him both the most fame and greatest satisfaction. This
                              conclusion leads to the obvious question, "how did Jesse Weik
                              keep a roof over his head for forty years?" The answer is that he
                              did a little bit of a good many things -- a "bread and butter
                              struggle," he once called it -- to sustain his passion for
                                   writing.85
                         Of course, during Weik's early years as a young adult, he could
                              frequently be found on duty in Louis Weik's fairly successful
                              grocery. It was plain enough that even as early as 1875, he intended
                              to reach for grander things. "I trust there is something better
                              in store for me," Weik told his diary.86
                         One way of "getting out" was to become a lawyer. Weik inquired
                              several times into attending Harvard Law School. He even had an offer
                                   
                                   82Tucker, "Lincolns Jesse W.
                                        Weik," 7.
                                   83Logansport Pharos,
                                        December 24, 1898, p. 4, col. 3 (mentions Weik was seen in
                                        the city, was asked how things were in
                                                  Greencastle, and
                                        recounted his defeat for the Republican nomination for
                                        Supreme Court Clerk); "Local News," Fort Wayne Gazette, March 2, 1900, p. 3. His
                                        sister and nephew were mentioned in the Indianapolis Star when they passed through on
                                        their way to vacation in Virginia. "The Passing
                                        Throng," Indianapolis Star, July 16,
                                        1914.
                                   84Mary Hays Weik, "My Father and
                                        Lincoln," 3.
                                   85Burlingame, Editor's
                                        Introduction, The Real Lincoln, xxv,
                                        citing Weik to Horace White, 2 June 1907, White
                                        Papers.
                                   86Weik diary, Sept. 25, 1875.
                              
                               to work with Charles Francis
                              Adams while he attended law school in Cambridge. Weik chose instead,
                              however, to enroll for post-graduate work at Asbury, where he earned a
                              master of arts degree in 1883.87 In 1878, he
                              submitted his credentials to the local court in Putnam
                                        County, which deemed them adequate and
                              admitted him to the bar, as was the admission practice at the time. In
                              his first trial, he represented a laborer who sued his employer for
                              payment. As it turned out, his client admitted at trial that he had
                              been paid in the form of room and board as well as cash. According to
                              Weik's diary, one of the people who hired the employer was named
                              Frances Hays, who would later become his wife. He said that he was
                              "allowed to win one case" by his fellow
                                        Greencastle
                                   lawyers.88
                         From the early days of his studying law with Greencastle's most powerful
                              Republican Thomas Hanna, a practicing attorney, Weik worked on pension
                              matters regularly.89 Weik handled among the most
                              cases of any agent.90 He also briefly opened a
                              real estate office.91
                         It seems likely that Weik made some money in what then passed for
                              technology. His diary reflects early experiments with the telegraph,
                              and he established the Greencastle Telephone Company with Frank
                              Gilmore, which early on gained about 100 subscribers.92 He actively participated in the company's
                              management until it was sold.
                         One of the major issues for the Weik partners and other local telephone
                              company owners was the threat of the ever-growing Bell Telephone
                              system. The Greencastle Telephone Company was a member of the
                              Independent Telephone Association, which served to counter Bell's
                              size. The "Independents" reacted vehemently when the Bell
                              system 
                                   87Weik's daughter surmised that he
                                        pursued law school "better to understand Lincoln the
                                        lawyer." Mary Hays Weik, "My Father and
                                        Lincoln," 4.
                                   88Tucker, "Lincolns Jesse W.
                                        Weik," 5.
                                   89Donald, Lincoln's
                                             Herndon, 297; see throughout Weik's 1877
                                        diary.
                                   90Tucker, "Lincoln's Jesse W.
                                        Weik," 10.
                                   910n his work on pension matters, see
                                        his 1877 diary. For a more on his brief stint in real
                                        estate, see Donald, Lincoln's
                                        Herndon, 297.
                                   92"Having received a telegraph
                                        instrument we experimented some with it." Weik diary,
                                        September 22, 1877. Soon after, Weik recorded, "Watched
                                        the operations and saw for the first time the new instrument
                                        the Telephone." Weik diary, December 12, 1877. As for
                                        the telephone, its novelty -- even in the 1890s -- was such that
                                        Greencastle Telephone's dispute with one of its
                                        contractors was noteworthy in other places. "Telephone
                                        Difficulties: Bad Condition of Affairs Exists at
                                                  Greencastle," Logansport Journal, October 22, 1895, p.
                                        2.
                              
                               proposed a merger. At a 1907
                              meeting, the association amended its bylaws to prevent any telephone
                              company with direct Bell connections from joining. At this same
                              meeting, the association elected Jesse Weik to its executive committee
                              and chose him to represent it at the upcoming meeting of the
                              International Independent Telephone Association of America.93
                         As was his wont, Weik began writing about telephone issues. When an
                              article in the Atlantic Monthly on the development
                              of telephones in the United States
                              generated a wide response, the magazine asked Weik to outline the case
                              for the independents. Titled "The Telephone Movement: Another
                              Point of View," the article outlined the development of the
                              telephone by several inventors, not simply by Alexander Bell.94
                         Weik's article defended the independent telephone movement with the
                              thesis that having local control is better for customers and citizens -- 
                              not just those in cities -- and that having more operators necessarily
                              means more innovators. In his closing, Weik makes this bold
                              prediction: "Perhaps someday we may be able to see as well as
                              speak to our friend at the other end of the line; and the line may be,
                              after all, not a wire, but a stratum of blue ether extending through
                              infinite space."95
                         Beyond the capital he accumulated in the telephone business, Weik's
                              largest asset was still in his possession when he died -- his Lincoln
                              collection, much of which came from Herndon. Even at the time of the
                              writing sessions in Greencastle, Herndon had been
                              impecunious. A Herndon letter to Weik indicates that in June of 1889
                              Herndon offered the collection, the result of "[t]wenty-five
                              years of toil[,] for $100," paid down in cash.96 Herndon gave as a reason for this generous offer:
                              "I have no place to keep the things -- am old .... I said once that
                              I would do something for you and I do it on this proposition." In
                              the margin, 
                                   93"No Union with the Bell: It Was
                                        But a Scheme to Destroy Telephone Competition," Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette, May 17, 1907,
                                        p. 1; "Urges Care For Outside Lines in Phone Merger:
                                                  Greencastle Official
                                        Writes Works Board Regarding Proposed Union Here," Indianapolis Star, February 24, 1912, p.
                                        3.
                                   94Jesse Weik, "The Telephone
                                        Movement: Another Point of View," Atlantic
                                             Monthly, February 1906, 263-69.
                                   95;Ibid.
                                   96"Letter Tells How Valuable
                                        Lincoln Papers Were Sold by Herndon to Partner for $100:
                                        Collection Later Sold by Weik Estate for $50,000,"
                                        Charles Molony, Alton Evening Telegraph,
                                        February 12, 1941, p. 8.
                              
                               Herndon wrote, "I greatly
                              need the money or would not say cash paid down."
                         Weik kept the collection under his bed and then, when he moved to a more
                              spacious house farther from town, in boxes held in the closet.97 His daughter said "there was no thought
                              of 'hiding' the Lincoln papers in the free and open
                              atmosphere of those days. We never used or even had a key to any of
                              the Greencastle
                              houses we lived in."98
                         The collection made Weik even more central to the Lincoln world.
                              "He was prodigal in allowing visitors to handle the manuscripts
                              (more than he probably should have been)," his daughter later
                              wrote. "For he knew how much the touch of them meant to those who
                              came to see them."99 Senator John J. Ingalls
                              of Kansas, Horace White, and Ida M. Tarbell all visited Weik to
                              discuss Lincoln and see the collection. Lord Charnwood of
                                        England, whose Lincoln biography drew
                              much praise from Weik, corresponded with him on the subject as well.
                              The collection also played a role in Weik's relationship with
                              Albert J. Beveridge, whom he initially met when the future U.S.
                              Senator was a student at DePauw.100 Beveridge was
                              a struggling student who cooked his own meals and sold books in the
                              summer to pay his tuition.101 Decades later Weik
                              loaned his Lincoln collection to Beveridge, who used the materials in
                              writing his Lincoln biography. Beveridge, who utilized his connections
                              with his fellow DePauw alumni to smooth his way to Weik, considered it
                              "his most important coup" in collecting materials.102 The preface to Beveridge's book,
                              published after his death, gave admiring credit: "The largest and
                              most important aid was derived from Mr. Beveridge's friend of
                              long standing, Jesse W. Weik, of Greencastle, Indiana."103
                         The Lincoln collection even played a role in Weik's political
                              aspirations. A reporter who observed Weik's campaigns for state
                              office recalled 
                                   97Tucker, "Lincolns Jesse W.
                                        Weik," 6.
                                   98Ibid., 77 n. 9.
                                   99Mary Hays Weik, "My Father and
                                        Lincoln," 3.
                                   100Tucker, "Lincoln's Jesse
                                        W. Weik," 5.
                                   101Ibid.
                                   102Braeman, "Albert J. Beveridge
                                        and Demythologizing Lincoln," 7; Albert J. Beveridge,
                                             Abraham Lincoln, 1809-1858, 2 vols.,
                                        (Boston, 1928).
                                   103Tucker, "Lincoln's Jesse W
                                        Weik," 5, citing Preface to Beveridge, Abraham Lincoln, I:v.
                              
                               his sharing the famous
                              Lincoln-Douglas notebooks along the trail.104 One
                              of these was a leather-bound pocket-sized digest in which Lincoln had
                              pasted newspaper clippings with information he thought would be
                              valuable for the debates. Herndon described it when Weik uncovered it
                              among the dusty papers of the Lincoln & Herndon law office,
                              "Here is the greatest find of all, and I trust you will preserve
                              it, for in its pages you will find carefully stored all the ammunition
                              which Lincoln saw fit to gather as a preparation for his battle with
                              Stephen A. Douglas."105 These notebooks later
                              helped convince Speaker Henry T. Rainey, from Illinois, to initiate a congressional
                              purchase of the Herndon-Weik collection after he borrowed it (and lent
                              it to President Franklin Roosevelt) from Gabriel Wells, who purchased
                              it from the Weik estate through George A. Baker and Company,
                              apparently for $50,000.106 When Wells purchased
                              it, the collection contained 2,167 items.107 In
                              the preface to his Lincoln biography, Emanuel Hertz wrote: "The
                              definitive 'Life' must be based on the papers in the Herndon
                              collection, the dispersal of which would be nothing short of a
                                   calamity."108
                         Weik moved to Larchmont,
                                        New York, to live with
                              his daughter in 1925.109 He suffered a stroke
                              around Christmas of 1929 and died in New York August 17, 1930 at age
                                   73.110 He is buried in Forest
                                   Hill cemetery in Greencastle. In 1938, a sizable portion
                              of the collection was printed for 
                                   104Frederick Landis, "Reason: A
                                        Column for Those Who Think," Valparaiso
                                             Vidette-Messenger, August 28, 1930.
                                   105Tucker, "Lincoln's Jesse W
                                        Weik," 13.
                                   106"Important Lincoln Documents
                                        May Be Purchased By Congress," Gettysburg
                                             Times, January 13, 1934, p. 6.
                                   107Ibid. Emanuel Hertz catalogued it
                                        for Baker & Co. and found 2350 separate items.
                                        "Lincoln Discoveries," Oakland
                                                  (Cal.)
                                             Tribune, February 6, 1938, p. 11. The Library of
                                        Congress has catalogued the collection as consisting of
                                        4,600 items. Tucker, "Lincoln's Jesse W
                                        Weik," 6.
                                   108"Important Lincoln Documents
                                        May Be Purchased By Congress," Gettysburg
                                             Times, January 13, 1934. Hertz also had access to
                                        some of the papers in the Huntington Library in
                                                  Pasadena,
                                                  California.
                                        "Lincoln Discoveries," Oakland (Cal.)
                                             Tribune, February 6, 1938, p. 11.
                                   109Burlingame, Editor's
                                        Introduction, The Real Lincoln, xxvi;
                                        "Jesse W. Weik, Historian, Dies in
                                                  Larchmont,
                                                  N.Y.,"
                                             Greencastle Herald, August 18, 1930,
                                        p. 1.
                                   110"Jesse W. Weik Passed Away
                                        Sunday Night," Greencastle Daily
                                             Banner, August 18, 1930, p. 1; "Jesse W.
                                        Weik, Historian, Dies in Larchmont,
                                                  N.Y.,"
                                             Greencastle Herald, August 18, 1930,
                                        p. 1; "Jesse W Weik, 73, Noted Writer, Dies," Indianapolis Star, August 19, 1930, p.
                                        12.
                              
                               the public in a single volume.111 In 1941, the Herndon-Weik papers were
                              purchased by the Library of Congress.112 A part of
                              Weik's collection, a scrapbook he had collected during his
                              research with Herndon, found its way to Indiana through the Lincoln National
                              Life Foundation.113 Happily, it remains in the
                              state today at the Allen County Public Library as the result of the
                              foundation's decision in 2009 to donate the collection to the
                              library and the Indiana State Museum.












                         
                              111"Lincoln Discoveries," Oakland (Cal.) Tribune, February 6, 1938, p.
                                   11. "The letters reveal that Herndon idolized Lincoln, and
                                   devoted the better part of his life to preserving his memory. But
                                   he had an equally strong passion for truth, and believed that
                                   Lincoln's memory was best served by recording all the truth,
                                   good and bad, about his life."
                              112Donald, Lincoln's
                                        Herndon, 327.
                              113Louis A. Warren, "Herndon's
                                   Contribution to Lincoln Mythology," Indiana
                                        Magazine of History, 41 (September 1945), 224.
                         
                    
               

               

               













                    REVIEWS




                    The Lincoln-Douglas Debates Edited by Rodney O.
                         Davis and Douglas L. Wilson (Urbana:
                         University of Illinois Press, 2008. Pp. li, 341. Notes, glossary, index.
                         $35.00.)

                    Lincoln and Douglas The Debates That Defined
                              America By Allen C. Guelzo (New
                                   York: Simon and Schuster, 2009. Pp.
                         xxvii, 383. Illustrations, notes, index. Paperbound, $19.99.)


                    For a century-and-a-half, the standard edition of the great debates between
                         Abraham Lincoln and Stephen A. Douglas was in essence a collection of
                         newspaper articles that Lincoln himself had gathered, pasted into a
                         scrapbook, and sent off to a publisher. Lincoln felt the fairest transcript
                         for each participant was the version printed by the partisan newspaper
                         supporting each candidate: the Chicago Times for Douglas,
                         and the Chicago Tribune for Lincoln. More recently,
                         Harold Holzer published an edition of the debates which reversed that
                         method, providing the opposing papers' accounts of each man's
                         speech. Now, two distinguished Lincoln scholars, Douglas L. Wilson and
                         Rodney O. Davis, have created a new version of these debates that remedies
                         many ills of the previous editions. The Davis-Wilson edition largely relies
                         on the original Lincoln method, except when it appears that a fusion of the
                         texts furnishes a more reliable account of what the participants actually
                         said. The result is probably the most accurate version of the debates ever
                         produced.
                    In The Lincoln-Douglas Debates, Davis and Wilson have also
                         provided pithy and informative introductions to each debate, where the
                         historical context surrounding that particular moment within the election
                         contest is cogently explained. In addition, annotation and a glossary are
                         included, and since Davis and Wilson are immensely knowledgeable Lincoln
                         scholars, this annotation reflects the breadth of their expertise. Previous
                         editions were typically not annotated, leaving modern readers without  explanations for certain nineteenth-
                         century colloquialisms or for various references to obscure subjects such
                         as the Toombs bill. To the great benefit of non-specialists, that absence
                         has now been remedied. For example, in the opening debate at
                                   Ottawa, Douglas declared that while he
                         disagreed with Lincoln on politics, he had known Lincoln for twenty-five
                         years, and did not intend to be insulting. He then promptly launched into
                         an insulting reminiscence on Lincoln's personal life and political
                         career, including a description of Lincoln as a grocery keeper in
                                   New Salem, known for his
                         skill in wrestling and "pitching quoits or tossing a copper."
                         Davis and Wilson helpfully explain that in antebellum parlance, a grocery
                         keeper was a liquor salesman, and pitching quoits was a kind of ring toss
                         game. Lincoln's tendency was to lurch into the highly-specialized
                         language of an attorney, an opaque legalese which must have been lost on
                         his contemporary audience, let alone modern readers. For example, at that
                         same Ottawa debate, Lincoln said "I
                         know the Judge is a great man, while I am only a small man, but I feel that
                         I have got him. I demur to that plea. I waive all objections that it was
                         not filed till after default was taken, and demur to it upon the
                         merits"(p. 26). Thankfully, this and other instances of Lincoln's
                         recurrent legal speak are carefully defined in the accompanying
                         annotation.
                    In the scholarly introduction to the Freeport debate, Davis and Wilson offer
                         sagacious comments on Douglas's declaration that despite the Dred
                         Scott decision, the citizens of a territory could still prohibit slavery by
                         withholding any local regulations protecting it. The editors point out that
                         Douglas had said this several times prior to Freeport, however, in part to help his
                         standing with Illinois Democrats. Further,
                         the South was already alienated from Douglas due to his dramatic opposition
                         to the Lecompton Constitution. Thus the significance of Douglas's
                                   Freeport statement,
                         subsequently pretentiously dubbed the Freeport Doctrine, has been
                         overblown.
                    In Lincoln and Douglas: The Debates That Defined America,
                         Allen Guelzo has written a superb narrative history of the debates. It will
                         be a revelation to those unfamiliar with the intricacies of
                                   Illinois politics in the antebellum period.
                         In addition, the book provides wonderful portraits of the personal
                         appearances and styles of the two protagonists: Lincoln, tremendously tall
                         and often awkward, slow at the beginning of his speeches, but growing more
                         animated as he spoke, and jabbing with his forefinger to emphasize a point;
                         Douglas, short and portly -- in Guelzo's clever hands, he looks
                         "like Humpty Dumpty in a toupee" -- speaking with a fiery passion
                         that witnesses said seemed to erupt from him as he restlessly stalked the
                         stage, occasionally raising his fist in excitement (p. 99). Further, Guelzo
                         portrays Douglas as a compulsive risk-taker who accepted Lincoln's  challenge to a series of debates-even
                         though meeting Lincoln face-to-face held little advantage for Douglas -- 
                         because the competitor and gambler in him relished the prospect of the
                         cut-and-thrust of a debate waged with his political career hanging in the
                         balance.
                    Most importantly, Guelzo correctly delineates the key aspect of the great
                         contest: specifically, that the election turned on an appeal to the Old
                         Whigs. The northern portion of Illinois
                         was solidly Republican in 1858, and the southern counties solidly
                         Democratic. The contest would therefore be decided in the geographical
                         center, or what Guelzo calls the Whig belt: counties with large numbers of
                         former Whigs who disliked both slavery and abolitionism, and who tended to
                         act as swing voters.
                    It was to these Old Whigs that Douglas pitched his nakedly racist attack on
                         the Republican Party in general, and on Lincoln in specific, as supporters
                         of black equality and racial co-mingling; Douglas's disreputable
                         tactic unfortunately had an impact on an audience overwhelmingly racist in
                         its attitudes and assumptions regarding black Americans. To alarm the Whigs
                         further, Douglas also sought to characterize Lincoln as a dangerous radical
                         who defied the Supreme Court and incited sectional war.
                    Guelzo then depicts Lincoln's attempts to politically navigate in this
                         suddenly difficult environment, on one hand trying to assure the Old Whigs
                         of his stolid conservatism, while on the other hand still retaining his
                         Republican coalition. Even before the race began, some Republicans had
                         wanted to endorse Douglas because of his opposition to the infamous
                         Lecompton Constitution; Lincoln's House Divided speech reminded these
                         wavering Republicans why Douglas was unacceptable. However, Lincoln's
                         rhetoric in the speech -- coupled with Douglas's racist
                         attacks -- discomfited the voters of the Whig belt. Guelzo then goes on to
                         provide the historical context explaining Lincoln's startling
                         statement -- made at the opening of the Charleston debate -- that he did not
                         favor black equality either. Guelzo argues that the Charleston statement,
                         made after Lincoln had explicitly said in earlier speeches that black
                         Americans were entitled to the natural rights promised in the Declaration
                         of Independence, was an attempt at pandering to the racist Old Whigs, and
                         Lincoln deserves no credit for it.
                    Both of the books represent seminal studies of the Lincoln-Douglas debates
                         that will be standard references for many years. Each will be required
                         reading, along with Harry Jaffa's timeless study, for students of the
                         great contest.

                    DAN MONROE is professor of history at Millikin University.
               

               






               

                    There I Grew Up Remembering Abraham Lincoln's
                                        Indiana Youth
                         By William E. Bartelt (Indianapolis: Indiana Historical Sociey
                         Press, 2008. Pp. xiv, 240. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                         $27.95.)


                    William E. Bartelt spent several summers guiding tourists through
                         Lincoln's Boyhood Home in Spencer
                              County, and in this book he guides readers
                         through the various texts that provide much of the knowledge about
                         Lincoln's boyhood. In one sense, the book is a collection of primary
                         sources; but rather than following the typical format of such collections,
                         Bartelt instead renders a narrative, with the key source materials tucked
                         into chapters that introduce and expand upon them. This narrative format is
                         certainly more approachable for general readers seeking information on
                         Lincoln's years in Indiana.
                    Much of Bartelt's material is taken from the William Herndon interviews
                         and letters. Herndon, Lincoln's Illinois
                         law partner, began gathering material on Lincoln's life soon after the
                         1865 assassination. Additional material includes Lincoln's own short
                         descriptions of life in Indiana, manuscript and land
                         records, and excerpts from records of the church Lincoln attended in his
                                   Indiana youth. Not every pertinent document
                         is included, but Bartelt has made judicious choices, and his accompanying
                         narrative provides some low-level analysis. For the most part, however, the
                         documents just sit on the page, open for readers to interpret.
                         Bartelt's background information is generally useful, although his
                         approach to politics in the 1820s seems rushed. And a deeper discussion of
                         the meaning of the "Articles of Faith" of the Little Pigeon
                         Baptist Church, as detailed in John E Cady's 1941 article in this
                         journal, might give readers a far better sense of the particular Calvinist-
                         tinted theology that was a part of Lincoln's upbringing.
                    This intrinsically interesting collection, however, may have missed a larger
                         opportunity. Much recent scholarship has focused on the issues of memory,
                         and clearly any book focusing on 1865 remembrances of Indiana in the 1820s must contend with the
                         complicated subject of memory, both as an object of historical study and as
                         a barrier to historical analysis. To give one example: many of the
                                   Spencer county interviews reveal similar
                         stories, perhaps because when Lincoln rose to national prominence, much
                         storytelling took place within the community. The interviews reflected
                         communal memories. Obviously, a book aimed at a general readership is not
                         going to confront the theoretical issues that intrigue university-based
                         historians, but this volume would have provided a good chance to introduce
                         the "history of memory" to a lay audience.

                    









                    In the bicentennial year of Lincoln's birth, Hoosiers seeking to learn
                         about the impact of their state on this formidable president will find this
                         book enjoyable. Bartelt never offers his own argument about that impact,
                         but readers will come away with their own conclusions from their encounters
                         with the primary sources.


                    RICHARD E NATION is Associate Professor of History at Eastern Michigan
                         University and the author of At Home in the Hoosier Hills:
                              Agriculture, Politics, and Religion in Indiana, 1810- 1870 (2005). He
                         has also edited, with Stephen Towne, Indiana's War: The Civil War in
                              Documents (2009).
               
               

                    Lincoln's Rise to the Presidency By William C.
                         Harris (Lawrence: University
                         Press of Kansas, 2007. Pp. xii, 412. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical
                         essay, index. $34.95.)


                    One trend in Lincoln scholarship over the last fifteen years has been an
                         increased interest in the pre-presidential Lincoln. The most obvious
                         example is the massive Lincoln Legal Papers project that collected and
                         digitized nearly 100,000 documents, which were published in 2000 in a
                         DVD-set, and are now available on the web. Scholars such as Michael
                         Burlingame, Kenneth J. Winkle, and Douglas L. Wilson have added
                         considerably to our knowledge of Lincoln before Washington.
                    Like these scholars, William C. Harris is also interested in the
                         prepresidential Lincoln. While he is indebted to their work, he has a
                         different focus. Harris is interested in Lincoln's "remarkable
                         political rise from obscurity to his inauguration as president" (p.
                         3). Here, he is on ground that, surprisingly, is not welltrod. The last
                         books to examine Lincoln's political career in Illinois in such detail were Don E.
                         Fehrenbacher's Prelude to Greatness: Lincoln in the
                              1850s (1962) and Paul E Simon, Lincoln's
                              Preparation for Greatness: The Illinois Legislative Years (1965).
                         Two-score-and-two years later, Harris's well-written and
                         well-researched book fills a gap in Lincoln scholarship.
                    In looking at Lincoln's rise in politics, Harris stresses Lincoln's
                         brand of conservatism. Harris concludes that Lincoln's conservatism
                         was "rooted in his background as a Henry Clay Whig, his close
                         association with border state rural people, his cautious nature, and the
                         racial and political realities he faced in central Illinois" (p. 2). This conservatism was
                         evident in Lincoln's 1838 address on "The Perpetuation of Our
                         Political Institutions," where he sounded a common Whig theme of
                         reverence for law and the Constitution.
                    Early on in his political career, however, Lincoln also evidenced his  antislavery principles. In the
                         Lincoln-Stone Protest of 1837, Lincoln and his fellow Whig said slavery
                         was "founded on both injustice and bad policy." There, Lincoln
                         parted company with many "conservative" Whigs who were more than
                         willing to accommodate Southern slavery. Harris could have done a better
                         job here of explaining Lincoln's brand of antislavery
                         conservatism.
                    Harris devotes two chapters on the 1858 senate campaign, with one chapter
                         focusing on the political and social context of the campaign, and the other
                         on the Lincoln-Douglas debates. Lincoln sought statewide office in a state
                         where the overwhelming majority of voters believed in white supremacy.
                         Lincoln managed, however, to both share the racism of white Illinoisans and
                         to simultaneously base his opposition to slavery upon moral grounds. When
                         compared to most white Illinoisans, Lincoln's racial prejudice appears
                         mild; when compared to Douglas, Lincoln looks downright egalitarian.
                    Despite his loss, Lincoln's failed senate campaign established him as a
                         viable candidate for president. In the last five chapters, Harris covers
                         the 1860 campaign, Lincoln's election, and subsequent "secession
                         winter." He does a good job describing how Lincoln ended up as the
                         Republican nominee at the Chicago
                         convention, and provides vivid details of the presidential election in
                         various Northern states. Harris concludes that Lincoln should not be
                         criticized for failing to support compromise efforts during the winter of
                         1860-1861. It is "highly unlikely" that Lincoln's support
                         for concessions "would have checked secession in the lower South,
                         prevented the formation of the Confederate States, or headed off an armed
                         clash between the two sides" (p. 294). Harris does not defend
                         Lincoln's refusal to issue a statement reassuring Southerners after
                         his election. While such a statement would not have mollified the lower
                         South, it could have "had a salutary effect" on the upper and
                         border South and calmed Northerners (p. 295).
                    Whether intended or not, Harris's excellent study serves as a fine
                         complement to Philip Shaw Paludan's The Presidency of
                              Abraham Lincoln (1994), which also was published by the
                         University Press of Kansas. In this age of declining budgets for university
                         presses, the University Press of Kansas is to be applauded for including
                         fourteen well-chosen illustrations.

                    MARK E. STEINER is a professor of law at South Texas College of Law. He
                         is the author of An Honest Calling: The Law Practice of
                              Abraham Lincoln (2006). He received both his law degree and Ph.D.
                         in history from the University of Houston.
               

               

               







                    Lincoln Emancipated The President and the Politics of
                              Race Edited by Brian R. Dirck (DeKalb: Northern Illinois University Press,
                         2007. Pp. xiv, 189. Notes, index. $32.00.)


                    Many citizens and scholars have difficulty confronting unpleasant realities
                         in U.S. history. A celebratory approach to the
                         nation's story and the "great man" tradition all too often
                         cast their spells, sowing confusion whenever the historical record falls
                         short of idealistic expectations. This problem is especially acute in
                         writings about Abraham Lincoln, for Lincoln has become, as James McPherson
                         puts it, "the deity of American civil religion." It is likewise
                         evident -- but fortunately not dominant -- in this volume.
                    Illustrating the problem, Allen Guelzo writes in the foreword that if Lincoln
                         "was a white supremacist" then his "every other
                         accomplishment ... falls into discredit" (p. viii). Guelzo thus
                         focuses on Lincoln's attitudes, anxious to show that Lincoln's
                         thoughts or feelings were not racist. Similarly, an essay by Phillip
                         Paludan labors awkwardly to put a favorable gloss on Lincoln's
                         advocacy of colonization to black leaders in August of 1862. To ward off
                         negative conclusions about Lincoln, Paludan also makes some sound
                         observations about human complexity and the dangers of "essentializ
                         [ing]" a person through narrow categories (p. 30).
                    Fortunately, most of this volume's contributors avoid the trap of trying
                         to make Lincoln perfect. Kenneth Winkle acknowledges that although Lincoln
                         "rose above the deepest prejudices" of his day, "he never
                         accepted the social and political equality of African Americans." He
                         saw racial prejudices as "central to American society" and
                         difficult to overcome (p. 10). Winkle's essay contains an admirably
                         thorough description of slavery and race relations in pre-Civil War
                                   Illinois. Winkle also discusses
                         Lincoln's opposition to abolitionism, his support of colonization, and
                         his belief that containing slavery and giving blacks "basic if not
                         equal rights" would put slavery in the course of ultimate extinction
                         (p. 28).
                    James Leiker carries forward the analysis of Lincoln's views on civil
                         and natural rights. In his view, Lincoln was "no champion of
                         'civil rights' in the contemporary sense," since
                         nineteenth-century Americans saw "blacks, Indians, women, and others
                         regarded as inferior" as unable to discharge the responsibilities of
                         citizenship. Instead, Lincoln's "progressivism lay in his
                         understanding of 'natural rights,' those that lay outside the
                         realm of the state simply by virtue of being born human" (p. 75). Such
                         "natural rights" entailed "the economic freedom of all
                         humans . . . to compete in a fair marketplace" (p. 92). Leiker
                         concludes that by applying "impossible standards" to Lincoln, we
                         have failed to appreciate his accomplishments in extending  "work that the founding generation had
                         left undone" (p. 98).
                    Essays by Kevin R. C. Gutzman and Michael Vorenberg deal substantively with
                         Lincoln's interest in colonization. Gutzman examines similarities in
                         the racial thought of Thomas Jefferson and Abraham Lincoln. He also notes
                         the importance to Lincoln of Henry Clay, a life-long colonizationist, and
                         documents how consistently Lincoln advanced the idea. Though some scholars
                         try to explain away Lincoln's statements on colonization, Gutzman
                         concludes that "It seems entirely likely that Lincoln continued to
                         hold to the Jeffersonian view ... that blacks were entitled to the
                         self-government [of] the Declaration of Independence ... but that ... they
                         could exercise it only 'upon [their] own soil" (p. 72).
                         Vorenberg, meanwhile, points out that Lincoln may have continued to be
                         attracted to ideas of gradual emancipation and colonization -- even as events
                         pushed him in a different direction. He argues for the relevance of
                         Lincoln's Whig background and shows that Lincoln's support of
                         education for African Americans was not entirely different from the
                         priority placed on education by some of today's advocates for
                         reparations.
                    An essay by Brian Dirck about the effect on Lincoln's emancipation
                         policies of possible opposition by the Supreme Court, and an analysis of
                         the tangled politics of emancipation in Missouri by Dennis Boman, round out
                         this useful volume.

                    PAUL D. ESCOTT is Reynolds Professor of History at Wake Forest
                         University. He recently published "What Shall We Do with
                              the Negro?": Lincoln, White Racism, and Civil War America
                         (2009).

               
               

                    Lincoln and the Decision for War The Northern Response
                              to Secession By Russell McClintock
                                   (Chapel Hill:
                         University of North Carolina Press,2008. Pp. xii, 388. Notes, bibliography,
                         index. $35.00.)

                    Accounts of the secession crisis of 1861 focus mostly on what Southerners did
                         to secede (the most recent example being William W. Freehling's The Road to Disunion: Secessionists Triumphant [2007])
                         rather than what Northerners did to oppose it. Our primary accounts of the
                         Northern response are limited very largely to David M. Potter's early
                              Lincoln and His Party in the Secession Crisis (1942)
                         and Kenneth M. Stampp's And the War Came: The North and
                              the Secession Crisis, 1860-61 (1950). But neither of those
                         outstanding works paid more than fleeting attention to that Northern
                         response outside the limited circle of Abraham Lincoln, the Republican
                         party's leadership, and the editors of prominent newspapers. This has
                         not been a particularly fashionable way of doing political histo-  ry in the decades since Potter and
                         Stampp. But it is the burden of Russell McClintock's equally
                         outstanding book to demonstrate that, given the structures of American
                         party politics, those were exactly the people who mattered most.
                    McClintock builds his narrative of the secession crisis on three fundamental
                         discoveries: first, that secession was primarily a political crisis, not an
                         economic one (as in Stampp) or a cultural or personal one (as in
                         Freehling); second, that no matter what the trends, this was a crisis in
                         which a handful of "great white men" really did matter; and
                         third, that the "decision for war" was largely Lincoln's,
                         principally because Lincoln controlled the political options of the
                         Republican party.
                    It is one of the ironies of the secession crisis that the party most worried
                         about disunion was the Democratic party, and not the Republicans, who
                         affected a lofty refusal to believe that secession was anything more
                         serious than the usual Southern bluster (p. 41). The South, announced
                         Horace Greeley, "could no more unite upon a scheme of secession than a
                         company of lunatics could conspire to break out of bedlam" (p. 47).
                         Lincoln, especially, refused to offer olive branches to lure the
                         secessionists back; even on the one occasion when he did formulate a
                         statement of policy, he had Lyman Trumbull include it as part of one of
                         Trumbull's own speeches, rather than issuing it personally (p. 51).
                         Lincoln did occasionally make placatory gestures, but never offered real
                         compromise with the secessionists, assuming that Southern unionism would
                         eventually douse the secessionists' fires (p. 91).
                    This did not mean that some Republicans had not taken enough alarm over
                         secession to begin advocating compromise. But the Republican compromisers
                         were concentrated in New York, and included
                                   New York governor Edwin D. Morgan,
                                   Albany editor Thurlow Weed, and
                         Weed's formidable master, William H. Seward. But neither Weed's
                         nor Seward's political skills could persuade other Republicans to balk
                         at Lincoln's stubbornness. Even when public opinion uneasily began to
                         show a "massive resurgence of pro-compromise support" in February
                         and March of 1861, Lincoln ignored it, and Republican politicians who might
                         have been tempted to join the tide for compromise were too anxious for
                         patronage rewards to buck Lincoln's line (p. 145). Lincoln's
                         would be the last word, especially after Congress adjourned in March (p.
                         189).
                    McClintock acknowledges that in the final weeks preceding the Confederate
                         assault on Sumter, even Lincoln weakened in his resistance to compromise,
                         assuring Southern unionists that he would trade Virginia's loyalty for an evacuation of the
                         immediate irritant of militant secessionism, Fort Sumter. But the mission
                         he sent to South Carolina to sound
                         out Southern opinion convinced him that Southern unionism was too weak  a reed to rest upon; the iron entered
                         into Lincoln's soul and, in the face of Seward's pleas, he
                         authorized the relief expedition to Sumter which made armed confrontation
                         inevitable. In the end, all the "efforts to promote compromise and
                         foster conciliation" by Northern Democrats and Republican moderates
                         "were thwarted at every turn" by the fact that Lincoln commanded
                         "the Republican Party machinery" (p. 239). Far from compromising,
                         Lincoln "deliberately discarded" any realistic plan for relieving
                         Fort Sumter in favor of one which would maneuver the Confederates into
                         firing the first shot (p. 249). His plan yielded mixed results. It did
                         trigger massive anger in the North at the rebels -- uniting all parties across
                         the Northern spectrum -- but did not in the upper South; when Lincoln followed
                         Sumter with a call-out of the state militias, Tennessee, Arkansas,
                                   Virginia and North
                                   Carolina bolted to the side of the
                         Confederacy.
                    McClintock sees in this a vindication of Lincoln's political skills in
                         handling the winner-take-all powers that come to victorious political
                         parties in the American system. Of course, it could just as easily be
                         read -- and surely will be, by that untiring cadre of unreconstructed
                         Lincoln-haters -- as proof of a cruel Machiavellian streak in Lincoln that
                         sacrificed blood and lives to political intransigence. In fact,
                         McClintock's meticulous recounting of the weeks and days leading up to
                         the attack on Sumter shows its greatest weakness by failing to ask just why
                         Lincoln should have thought the relief expedition was, necessarily, a
                         decision for war. Lincoln had always believed that unionism was the default
                         position of all but a handful of Southerners, and running the clock was the
                         best way of giving Southern unionism a chance to regain control and rescind
                         secession. An unarmed relief expedition would keep that clock running -- a
                         fact which the secessionists understood all too well, since the longer the
                         upper South distanced itself from secession, the more absurd the
                         secessionists' cause looked. Attacking Sumter before the expedition
                         could arrive was their only hope of forcing matters to a head in the upper
                         South. What resulted, as McClintock notes, played into Lincoln's
                         hands. It remains a question, though, whether this was the play Lincoln
                         really wanted to follow.

                    ALLEN C. GUELZO is Henry R. Luce Professor of the Civil War Era and the
                         Director of Civil War Era Studies at Gettysburg College. He is the author
                         of numerous important works on Abraham Lincoln and nineteenth- century U.S.
                         history, including Abraham Lincoln: Redeemer President
                         (2003) and Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation: The End
                              of Slavery in America (2004), each of which won the Lincoln
                         Prize, as well as Lincoln and Douglas: The Debates That
                              Defined America (2008), Lincoln: A Very Short
                              Introduction (2009), and Abraham Lincoln as a Man of
                              Ideas (2009).
               


               





               


                    Tried By War Abraham Lincoln as Commander in
                         Chief By James M. McPherson (New
                                   York: Penguin, 2008. Pp. xv, 329.
                         Illustrations, notes, index. $38.00.)


                    Eminent Civil War scholar James M. McPherson, Princeton University historian
                         and winner of a Pulitzer Prize for Battle Cry of Freedom
                         (1988), and a Lincoln Prize for For Cause and Comrades
                         (1997), applies his considerable expertise and talent to a subject
                         surprisingly under-examined: the role of Abraham Lincoln as Commander in
                         Chief during the Civil War. The fact that so little is written about so
                         important an element of Lincoln's presidency is surprising, and
                         McPherson's book is a welcome closing of that gap.
                    As the author notes, Lincoln was ill prepared for the job. As McPherson
                         writes, "Lincoln faced a steep learning curve," and was
                         "painfully aware that his adversary, Jefferson Davis, was much better
                         prepared for that daunting task" (p. 2). Yet Lincoln had certain
                         assets as well. He possessed "a keen analytical mind," and a
                         "fierce determination to master any subject to which he applied
                         himself" (p. 2). Given his lack of preparation, the surprise is that
                         Lincoln was "a more hands-on commander in chief than any other
                         president" (p. 5). Lincoln's involvement is especially evident in
                         his control of the five primary wartime functions: policy, national
                         strategy, military strategy, operations, and tactics.
                    Throughout, Lincoln always focused on his one major strategic goal: to
                         preserve the Union and restore (even reinvigorate) the spirit of 1776. This
                         defense of republican and democratic government came at a time when
                         democracy seemed threatened and in retreat across the globe. Thus,
                         President Lincoln's message was not merely for an American but for an
                         international audience. He was fighting to preserve self-government.
                    For Lincoln, there was no time for on-the-job training. Promptly faced with
                         the crisis of Fort Sumter (the first paper placed on his desk called for an
                         immediate decision on what to do about Sumter), it was clear that his
                         decisions would be consequential from day one. And from day one, Lincoln
                         demonstrated skill and insight. "He made mistakes -- but he also learned
                         from those mistakes" (p. 266). The talents to grow, to learn from
                         mistakes, and to be flexible and adaptable to new situations and changing
                         circumstances were trademarks of Lincoln's leadership style. Few
                         presidents master the ability to be fluid and readily adapt to change; most
                         rigidly dig in and continue doing what they are comfortable doing, rather
                         than facing what needs to be done (e.g. Lyndon Baines Johnson and
                                   Vietnam). A key to Lincoln's success
                         was his ability to bring military tactics in line with his political goals
                         and strategy. He always kept his  eye
                         on the end he wished to achieve, but was flexible in reaching that end.
                    One of the persistent and vexing controversies surrounding Lincoln as
                         Commander in Chief was his willingness to go beyond the law. Historians
                         differ in their evaluations of Lincoln's wartime policies on civil
                         liberties. McPherson, to this reviewer, skates rather quickly and somewhat
                         superficially over this controversy. He seems a bit too sanguine about
                         Lincoln's legal violations, and while "necessity" is a
                         powerful argument in Lincoln's favor, a more thorough examination,
                         incorporating a stronger stand by McPherson one way or the other, would
                         have been useful. On this McPherson instead steps gingerly, avoiding the
                         hard decisions, which is disappointing; the way Americans deal with this
                         controversy had implications not only in Lincoln's age, but also our
                         own.
                    McPherson is an excellent storyteller with a great story to tell. The reader
                         comes away once again amazed with the skill and acumen of Lincoln the man
                         and the leader. This book covers a remarkable man at a remarkable turning
                         point in United States history, and James McPherson once again establishes
                         himself as one of our more insightful Lincoln scholars.

                    MICHAEL A. GENOVESE currently holds the Loyola Chair of Leadership, is
                         Professor of Political Science, and Director of the Institute for
                         Leadership Studies at Loyola Marymount University. Professor Genovese has
                         written seventeen books, including The Paradoxes of the
                              American Presidency [with Thomas E. Cronin] (2004); The Power of the American Presidency: 1789-2000, (2000); The Presidency and the Challenge of Democracy [with Lori
                         Cox Han] (2007); The Encyclopedia of the American Presidency (2004); and The Presidency and the Law: The
                              Clinton Legacy, [with David Gray Adler] (2002). Professor
                         Genovese appears frequently as a political commentator on local and
                         national television and is associate editor of the journal, White House Studies.
               
               

                    Lincoln's Censor Milo Hascall and the Freedom of
                              the Press in Civil War Indiana By David W. Bulla
                                   (West Lafayette,
                                   Ind.: Purdue University Press, 2008. Pp.
                         xviii, 340. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $39.95.)

                    Historically, wartime has been the most dangerous time for free speech in
                         American history. That has been true in virtually every war the country
                         has fought since the Revolution, but the suppression of speech during the
                         Civil War was perhaps the most bleakly paradoxical occasion. In the
                         country's bloodiest war, a war fought to liberate one group of
                         Americans  from the chains of slavery,
                         the civil liberties of a different group were stomped on, shredded, and
                         snuffed out by a government led by "the Great Emancipator." The
                         irony of this is not lost on Iowa State University journalism professor
                         David W. Bulla in this new study of military censorship in Civil War-era
                                   Indiana.
                    Bulla's work follows a recent line of scholarship examining how civil
                         liberties fared in both the North and the South from 1861 to 1865. One of
                         the more prominent authors in this area is Mark Neely. In another ironic
                         turn, both Bulla and Neely have found that the Confederate press faced far
                         less interference from either military or other government sources. The
                         military suppression that Bulla specifically addresses was more common in
                         both the South and the North than was prior restraint by either of the
                         other branches of government.
                    To examine the issue of press suppression by military officials in the North,
                         Bulla turns his spotlight on the experiences of journalists in one
                         midwestern state during the spring of 1863. The tormentor in this case was
                         Milo S. Hascall, a Union general in command of the District of
                                   Indiana.
                    For the most part, when a Civil War general silenced a journalist, he did so
                         to protect military operations. Hascall's reasoning was a bit
                         different, according to Bulla. Hascall had little cause to worry about harm
                         to military operations from anything Indiana
                         newspapers might publish; Indiana papers were far from the front, and by
                         the time they reached the field, their news would be too old to matter.
                    According to Bulla, Hascall's motivation was instead partisan politics.
                         Hascall was not so much a military tyrant as he was a loyal general and
                         Republican who believed journalistic dissent could undermine the Lincoln
                         administration and therefore should be stopped. Hascall, however, was
                         clever. He was selective about which Democratic newspapers he suppressed.
                         He went after any he was sure he could intimidate, such as papers from the
                         smaller towns where Republicans held the leading political offices, and
                         where few would be few willing to step forward to defend Democratic
                         editors.
                    Bulla builds his case methodically by examining Hascall's censorship
                         efforts against the backdrop of theoretical and historical perspectives on
                         American press freedom, including a section in his conclusion that compares
                         censorship during the Civil War to censorship during Iraq war.
                         These chapters could have benefited from a bit of deft editing by the
                         publisher, for while they cover important ground that helps contextualize
                         Bulla's arguments, they are almost overly ambitious in scope.
                    Bulla's case study is an important work. It offers a specific example
                         that complements Neely's work, and, more importantly, it also offers a
                         superb example of how political dissent on the local level was dealt with
                         in the guise of military administration. Fur-  ther, the book is a good read for anyone
                         interested in the political history of Indiana and
                         in the attitudes citizens held regarding the pressing political issues of
                         their day: emancipation and Union. Bulla writes with the authority of one
                         who knows his subject well, as indeed he does. Press suppression in the
                         North during the Civil War has been Bulla's primary interest since his
                         days as a graduate student, and he is presently expanding his work to
                         consider other midwestern states. This first book puts him well on the road
                         to completing this important work on the complex issue of how a country at
                         war over slavery could justify suppression of one of the most important
                         groups in any society, the press.

                    DEBRA REDDIN VAN TUYLL is a professor of communications at Augusta State
                         University. She is author of The Southern Press in the Civil
                              War (2005) and co-editor of The Civil War and the
                              Press (2000). Her third book, Knights of the Quill:
                              Reassessing Confederate Correspondents and Their Civil War
                              Reporting, will be forthcoming in 2010.
               

               


                    Man of Douglas, Man of Lincoln The Political Odyssey of
                              James Henry Lane By Ian Michael Spurgeon
                                   (Columbia: University of
                         Missouri Press, 2008. Pp. x, 291. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                         index. $42.50.)


                    Ian Michael Spurgeon has written an intriguing and thoroughly researched
                         biography of controversial nineteenth-century American politician James
                         Henry Lane. During his colorful public career, Lane was a Mexican War
                         colonel, a Democratic congressman from Indiana, and
                         a free state advocate and Republican senator from Kansas. Due to the unique trajectory of
                         Lane's career, Spurgeon argues here that contemporaries and historians
                         alike have, however, consistently mischaracterized Lane as volatile,
                         irrational, unprincipled, and opportunistic. Spurgeon contends instead that
                         Lane's "political odyssey" was rational and consistent with
                         his overall and lifelong ideological commitment to popular sovereignty,
                         white supremacy, and unionism. By effectively utilizing Lane's
                         personal correspondence and speeches as well as relevant newspaper accounts
                         concerning Lane, Spurgeon analyzes Lane's personal tragedies and
                         political exploits within the context of American sectionalism.
                    Spurgeon indicates that Lane's political journey parallels the
                         experiences of other Americans navigating through the politically turbulent
                         antebellum period. As an example, Spurgeon examines Lane's endorsement
                         of the 1854 Kansas-Nebraska
                         Act along with his ardent support of Stephen  Douglas and the Democratic Party. Like
                         Douglas, Lane was preeminently concerned with the needs and wants of
                         northern white Americans, believing that the principle of popular
                         sovereignty expressed in the act safeguarded the rights of these citizens
                         in the territories. Lane's support of the act, Spurgeon therefore
                         argues, represents his ongoing commitment to popular sovereignty and white
                         supremacy.
                    Lane settled in antislavery Lawrence, Kansas in
                         1855, and though he continued to defend the doctrine of popular
                         sovereignty, while there he slowly gravitated toward the free state
                         ideology growing in Kansas. Spurgeon criticizes
                         historians for interpreting Lane's opposition to the proslavery
                         territorial government as opportunistic, instead viewing Lane's shift
                         as reflective of his long-standing political ideology. According to
                         Spurgeon, Lane's commitment to local power meant that he shared with
                         Lawrence residents -- whether anti-black free state proponents or morally
                         committed abolitionists -- an abhorrence for the proslavery forces in Kansas.
                         With Lane confronting an implacable proslavery territorial government,
                         Spurgeon interprets Lane's movement toward aggressive, even violent
                         military tactics to contest such forces as the natural outcome of a
                         rational man defending popular sovereignty and the rights of all free
                         staters.
                    Spurgeon's chapters concerning the relationship between Abraham Lincoln
                         and Lane as well as Lane's views on slavery were particularly
                         thoughtful and interesting. Spurgeon compares the backgrounds of the two
                         men, regarding their movement toward the Republican Party as similarly
                         motivated by a desire to limit proslavery political power and
                         slavery's territorial growth. After Kansas was
                         admitted to the Union as a free state in 1861, the state legislature
                         selected Lane as a Republican senator. Spurgeon concludes that Lane's
                         movement from the Democratic to the Republican Party demonstrated a natural
                         realignment since Lincoln and the Republicans, according to Lane, now
                         championed the "democratic principles" of self-government and
                         unionism. Yet unlike Lincoln, Lane expressed no moral opposition to slavery
                         even though he eventually supported abolition and the enrollment of black
                         troops as a way to save the Union.
                    While nineteenth-century newspaper editors commonly expressed partisan,
                         sensationalized rhetoric -- and Spurgeon is correct to note that
                         "rumors" surrounding controversial figures like Lane tended to be
                         overblown -- it nonetheless appears that many of the public criticisms leveled
                         against Lane were not entirely without merit. The reviewer is still left
                         with the impression that Lane was first and foremost a skilled, sometimes
                         volatile politician, guided less by a coherent ideological commitment to
                         "democratic principles" and more by emotional, even visceral,  responses to personal interactions
                         with other leading political powers. Indeed, along with discussing
                         Lane's exceptional oratorical and politicking abilities, Spurgeon
                         credits Stephen Douglas's verbal attack upon Lane's
                                   Kansas free state sympathies as the key
                         factor leading Lane to reject the Democratic Party. Notwithstanding, Ian
                         Spurgeon's narrative of James Lane is a welcome addition to the
                         nineteenth-century American political narrative.

                    BROOKE SPEER ORR is Associate Professor of History at Westfield State
                         College in Massachusetts, and is
                         currently writing a book called "The 'People's Joan of
                         Arc': Mary Elizabeth Lease, Gendered Politics, and the Populist Party
                         in Gilded-Age America."
               
               

                    More Than a Contest Between Armies Essays on the Civil
                              War Era Edited by James Marten and A. Kristen Foster
                                   (Kent, Ohio: Kent
                         State University Press, 2008. Pp. xii, 309. Notes, bibliography, index.
                         $35.00.)


                    The American Civil War is a popular and enduring subject in publishing; and
                         its approaching sesquicentennial will only make it more so. Books and
                         articles regularly appear on seemingly every possible aspect of the war.
                         Written for both academic and popular audiences, by scholars and amateurs,
                         the quality and topics can vary greatly. Something like the stock of the
                         sutlers' wagons that followed Civil War armies, the subject offers
                         something for everyone. From a very focused work on a single battle, to a
                         sweeping analysis taking in the whole war and its many facets, reader -- much
                         like that soldier perusing the sutlers' goods -- can find something to
                         interest them. More Than a Contest Between Armies: Essays on
                              the Civil War Era, is much like the sutlers' offerings -- there
                         is something here for everyone.


                    Based on presentations given by many of the foremost Civil War scholars of
                         the last forty years as part of the Frank L. Klement Lectures at Marquette
                         University, editors James Marten and A. Kristen Foster have done a
                         marvelous job of assembling twelve essays presenting different aspects of
                         and perspectives on this tragic conflict. The editors' excellent
                         preface places the anthology in context to the Klement series and its goal
                         to present the broad field of Civil War study -- from the battlefield to the
                         home front; from the military and political leaders of the war to the
                         battles waged to preserve the honor and glory of their causes in its
                         aftermant. The editors quote Civil War historian Frank Klement himself for
                         the title of the book. The Civil War was indeed "more than a contest
                         between armies," and the essays presented  make that clear. Some are military- related
                         works, such as John Simon's comparison between Union commanders
                         Ulysses S. Grant and Henry Halleck, and Lesley Gordon's look at
                         bravery and cowardice in the 16th Connecticut Infantry Regiment. But the majority
                         deal with the political and domestic aspects of the war. For example, what
                         was Frederick Douglass's relationship with Abraham Lincoln and did he
                         give the martyred president proper credit for what he did for African
                         Americans? Who were Henry Tuckerman, Anna Dickinson, and Silas Weir
                         Mitchell, and how did their writing influence public opinion and
                         perspectives regarding the war? Was the home front experience necessarily
                         all that different between Northern and Southern communities? While Abraham
                         Lincoln and the federal government have been criticized for violating civil
                         liberties in prosecuting the war, did Jefferson Davis and the Confederate
                         government tread any more carefully in protecting and honoring such rights?
                         How were the rights and treatment of "virtuous" women versus
                         prostitutes dealt with in wartime? A who's who of Civil War
                         historians, including Gary Gallagher, Ed Ayers, Catherine Clinton, David
                         Blight, Mark Neely, and more, explore these and other topics.
                    A brief introduction to each essay provides information on the historian and
                         subject and endnotes follow it. In between are informative, insightful, and
                         thought provoking essays. For anyone interested in the Civil War, this is a
                         must read.

                    JAMES J. HOLMBERG is Curator of Special Collections at The Filson
                         Historical Society, Louisville,
                                   Kentucky. The Civil War is one of his areas
                         of specialty, and he writes and lectures on it.
               
               

                    Andersonvilles of the North The Myths and Realitites of
                              Northern Treatment of Civil War Confederate Prisoners By
                         James M. Gillispie (Denton:
                         University of North Texas Press, 2008. Pp. vii, 278. Illustrations, notes,
                         bibliography, index. $24.95.)


                    James M. Gillispie's study of federal government's treatment of
                         Confederate prisoners in prisoner-of-war camps in the North aims to dispel
                         the hoary myths and misconceptions of intentional cruelty and retaliation
                         that arose from the postwar Southern Lost Cause ideology. Rejecting
                         post-war Southern accounts of sadistic treatment at the hands of vengeful
                         Northern captors as unreliable, Gillispie instead argues that wartime
                         records of the administration of prison camps and diaries of Southern
                         prisoners not only provide the best sources, but clearly demonstrate that
                         Union Army  administrators endeavored
                         to provide ample food, clothing, medical care, and shelter to the tens of
                         thousands of rebel prisoners in Northern prison camps. In a series of
                         "mini studies" (p. 5) of nine of the major prisons scattered
                         throughout the North, Gillispie shows that at each prison, army officers
                         made conscientious efforts to feed, clothe, and care for their prisoners
                         under the watchful eyes of inspectors sent by the commissary general of
                         prisoners, Colonel William Hoffman. He argues that although many prisoners
                         died while in custody, the deaths were largely due to overcrowding after
                         the breakdown of prisoner exchanges; rampant disease (such as pneumonia,
                         dysentery, smallpox, malaria, typhoid, and other maladies) which was easily
                         communicated in the crowded camps; and the lack of medical knowledge
                         necessary to diagnose and treat these diseases.
                    Gillispie's mini-study of Camp Morton in Indianapolis, Indiana will serve here as a representative for
                         all nine prisons under examination. Established as a volunteer rendezvous
                         camp at the beginning of the war, it became a prison camp in early 1862 in
                         order to accommodate the thousands of Confederate prisoners captured after
                         the battle of Fort Donelson. Though the prison camp was initially emptied
                         later that year by exchanges, it rapidly refilled to overcrowding again.
                         Gillispie notes that Camp Morton's commanders came in for sharp
                         criticism at times by Hoffman's medical inspectors for deficient
                         medical care (owing to an inexperienced medical staff) and for poor sewage
                         drainage from the camp. Inspectors reported that prisoners' waste
                         collected in insufficiently drained ditches and created health hazards.
                         After Hoffman forced the replacement of medical staff and commanders,
                         conditions improved. However, the prison barracks buildings lacked wooden
                         floors, and became muddy in wet weather. Gillispie reviews the mortality
                         statistics for each prison, and at Camp Morton pneumonia was the chief
                         reported killer, followed by diarrhea/dysentery and malaria. Though Camp
                         Morton's death rates were worse that most of the other Northern
                         prisons, Gillispie demonstrates that camp officials -- under the watchful
                         eyes of Hoffman's inspectors -- provided ample rations, clothing, and
                         shelter, belying the postwar image of negligence and abuse promoted by Lost
                         Cause apologists.
                    Gillispie handles each prison separately, following the same pattern
                         (reviewing first the postwar accounts, then the secondary literature, and
                         finally any records and surviving prisoner diaries written during the war).
                         Though tediously repetitious, the argument that federal authorities took
                         great pains to provide ample food, clothing, medical care, and shelter to
                         the rebel prisoners is ultimately hammered home. Gillispie's
                         concluding chapter on "the omnipresent specter of disease" is
                         most effective in showing the problems of communicable  diseases and prison camps in the nineteenth
                         century, and medical practitioners' lack of understanding and
                         inability to deal with them. Gillispie's focus on wartime records and
                         Confederate prisoners' wartime diaries is important; however, his
                         reliance on the published Official Records and Medical and Surgical History of the War of Rebellion is
                         unfortunate. The Official Records represents a mere
                         sample of the mass of records found in the National Archives. Extensive
                         records, far more than those selected for publication in the Official Records, exist for each of the various prison camps.
                         Gillispie's argument would have been stronger had he consulted the
                         originals. Still, his book serves as a useful corrective to the distorted
                         picture produced by reliance on postwar Lost Cause narratives.

                    STEPHEN E. TOWNE is Associate University Archivist at Indiana
                         University-Purdue University Indianapolis. He is editor of A
                              Fierce, Wild Joy: The Civil War Letters of Colonel EdwardJ. Wood, 48th
                              Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment (2007), and co-editor with
                         Richard E Nation of Indiana's War: The Civil War in
                              Documents (2009).
               
               

                    Abolitionists Remember Antislavery Autobiographies and
                              the Unfinished Work of Emancipation By Julie Roy
                         Jeffrey (Chapel Hill:
                         University of North Carolina Press, 2008. Pp. xii, 337. Illustrations,
                         notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound, $59.95; paperbound, $24.95.)


                    Ruminating in 1935 on the meaning of emancipation, the African American
                         historian and sociologist W.E.B. Du Bois wrote: "The slave went free;
                         stood a brief moment in the sun; then moved back again toward
                         slavery."
                    In Abolitionists Remember Julie Roy Jeffrey examines how,
                         during the four decades following emancipation, white and black
                         abolitionists memorialized and remembered their contentious and long
                         campaign to overthrow the "peculiar institution." She defines
                         "abolitionist" broadly, including "all who embraced the
                         anti-slavery cause" and focuses on the broad significance of the
                         abolition movement in late nineteenth century America, a time when the
                         freed-people "moved back again toward slavery" (p. 256 n.7).
                    Specialists will welcome Jeffrey's close reading of the autobiographical
                         texts of such well-known abolitionists as William Still, Levi Coffin,
                         Frederick Douglass, Parker Pillsbury, George Julian, Calvin Fairbank, and
                         Thomas Wentworth Higginson. In addition to uncovering and analyzing obscure
                         proceedings of abolitionists' reunions in 1875, 1884, and 1893, she
                         also studies the recollections of lesser-known abolitionists, including
                         former slaves John Quincy Adams and John P. Parker, as well as John Malvin,
                         a free black southerner.


                    








                    Jeffrey joins only a handful of historians who have researched publishers' archives, including advertisements, publishing contracts,
                         reader's reports, reviews, and sales and royalty figures. Such
                         documentation, usually identified with "the history of the
                         book," enables her to explain the marketing of books by subscription
                         and chart the degree to which various autobiographical texts entered public
                         discourse. Jeffrey also scours post-Civil War popular monthly magazines to
                         discern the changing image of abolitionists in historical memory,
                         especially what David W. Blight has termed the "reconciliation"
                         narrative that redefined the Civil War as a struggle for nationhood, not
                         one to destroy slavery.
                    Jeffrey finds, not surprisingly, that in their autobiographical writings
                         abolitionists continued their fight against racial injustice.
                         "Abolitionists," she writes, "challenged every important
                         point of the reconciliation narrative, trying to salvage the nobility of
                         their work for emancipation and African Americans and defending their own
                         participation in the great events of their day" (p. 3). In reflecting
                         on their fight against slavery, former abolitionists explained their
                         motivations, detailed the opposition they confronted, and described slavery
                         and the world the slaveholders fashioned. "Explicitly or
                         implicitly," Jeffrey writes, "their narratives offered an
                         analysis of the causes of war" (p. 4).
                    Even before the end of Reconstruction, however, white Americans generally
                         lost sympathy for the slaves and increasingly celebrated national harmony,
                         including a shared sense of white racial hegemony. Jeffrey documents this
                         in her analysis of the pro-southern, pro-slavery characterization of
                         slavery and abolition in popular magazines. If anything she understates the
                         breadth and depth of anti-black thought. Predictably, the inattention
                         readers paid to abolitionist autobiographies resulted in low sales figures
                         and, accordingly, major publishing houses stopped publishing them.
                    Jeffrey's most original contribution is her close analysis of the
                         transitional and often ignored 1880s. During this decade popular writers
                         reevaluated the abolitionists (debunked as fanatical agitators), the Civil
                         War (celebrated as restoring national unity), and the freedpeople
                         (ridiculed as childlike and unprepared for freedom).
                    With chattel slavery abolished, but with new forms of servitude and racial
                         and class proscription on the rise during and after Reconstruction, the old
                         abolitionists directed their ire at racial prejudice. The restoration of
                         southern Bourbon regimes in the 1880s and the institutionalization of Jim
                         Crow in the 1890s convinced them that their work of racial reform remained
                         unfinished. Regardless of the indifference shown his Acts of
                              the Anti-Slavery Apostles (1883), Pillsbury declared that he
                         wrote his book "for History, for Humanity, and for Posterity,
                         regardless of cost and loss"  (p.
                         201). The abolitionists' contributions would be rediscovered during
                         another period of racial change -- the modern civil rights movement.

                    JOHN DAVID SMITH is the Charles H. Stone Distinguished Professor of
                         American History at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. He is
                         the author or editor of twenty books, including An Old Creed
                              for the New South: Proslavery Ideology and Historiography,
                              1865-1918 (third printing with a new preface, 2008).
               

               

               














                    REVIEW NOTICES


                    Abraham Lincoln By James M. McPherson
                                   (New York: Oxford
                         University Press, 2009. Pp. xi, 79. Illustration, notes, bibliography.
                         $12.95.)

                    In sixty-five pages of text, James McPherson offers a Lincoln biography that
                         "captures the essential events and meaning of Lincoln's
                         life" (p. xi). The author devotes only seven pages to Lincoln's
                         youth and young adulthood, and by page twenty-three, the reader has arrived
                         in the early months of 1860, but McPherson has a sure feel for essential
                         information. His discussion of the Civil War years focuses on three topics:
                         Lincoln as Commander in Chief, the history and significance of the
                         Emancipation Proclamation, and Lincoln as master politician. Long-time
                         Lincoln buffs who have read a stack of biographies may not need to read
                         this volume, but they should still appreciate the skill that has created
                         such brevity. The book will appeal to students who want "just the
                         facts" about Lincoln, teachers who need to refresh their memory before
                         writing a lecture, and general readers intimidated by many-hundred-paged or
                         multi-volume biographies.


                    Lincoln A Very Short Introduction By Allen C.
                         Guelzo (New York: Oxford
                         University Press, 2009. Pp. ix, 149. Illustrations, maps, references,
                         further reading, index. Paperbound, $11.95.)

                    Allen Guelzo has written a 128-page introduction to Lincoln that is "a
                         biography of his ideas" (p. 8). Lincoln's early days are
                         discussed under the rubric of "Equality," defined as a
                         "baseline of opportunity" in the young republic. The young
                         man's desire for a career in both law and politics is discussed in
                         "Advancement"; his growing concern with questions about slavery
                         within a democracy appears in the section titled "Liberty." The
                         next three chapters on Lincoln's campaign against Douglas and his
                         years as president focus on "Debate," "Emancipation,"
                         and "Reunion." In his epilogue, Guelzo agrees with the claim that
                         Lincoln was, indeed, the "Great American Man," who saved the
                         Union and the ideal of liberal democracy; ensured that both political
                         equality and social mobility would be defining elements of American
                         society; and created a  vocabulary of
                         politics that was necessarily linked to morality and "eternal
                         principles of right and wrong" (p. 127). The small volume provides an
                         impressive amount of historical and intellectual context, offers an expert
                         summary of Lincoln's thought, and includes several pages of
                         suggestions for further reading.





                    The Portable Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Edition
                         Edited by Andrew Delbanco (New
                              York: Penguin Books, 2009. Pp. xxvii, 369.
                         Index. Paperbound, $18.00.) 
                    Readers interested in the writings and speeches of Lincoln have an array of
                         choices, from multi-volume documentary editions to small gift books with
                         more illustrations than text. Andrew Delbanco offers a selection of
                         eighty-seven letters and speeches from 1832 through April 1865. Each text
                         is complete and has no deletions, and the collection "aims to make the
                         man available through his own voice and expression" (p. xi). Many
                         famous texts are included: the first Lincoln-Douglas debate, the 1860
                         Cooper Union speech, the 1st and 2nd inaugural addresses, the Emancipation
                         Proclamation, and the Gettysburg Address.
                         Letters range from 1840s missives to law partner William Herndon and to
                         Mary Todd Lincoln, to 1862 messages from an exasperated Commander in Chief
                         to General George McClellan.


                    In Lincoln's Hand His Original Manuscripts with
                              Commentary by Distinguished Americans Edited by Harold
                         Holzer and Joshua Wolf Shenk (New
                              York: Bantam Books, 2009. Pp. xi, 196.
                         Illustrations. $35.00.)

                    Based on the bicentennial exhibit of the Library of Congress, this book
                         reproduces a collection of original manuscripts of Lincoln's letters
                         and speeches. Each verso reproduces an original manuscript page; each recto
                         contains two columns: one with a transcript of the document, one with
                         commentary and illustrations. The book begins with a copybook page from
                         Lincoln's youth and concludes with the text of the president's
                         second inaugural address. Commentators include four past U.S. presidents
                         and several other political figures, novelists and poets (including E. L.
                         Doctorow and Toni Morrison), and media and arts figures.




                    The Lincoln-Douglas Debates By Abraham Lincoln and
                         Stephen A. Douglas (Mineola,
                                   N.Y.: Dover Publications, Inc., 2009. Pp.
                         x, [355]. Paperbound, $16.95.)

                    This volume, apart from its brief introduction, consists of original texts:
                         one speech by each candidate from the early summer of 1858, and the text of
                         all seven debates that took place from August through October  of that year. Many readers may prefer the
                         recently published Knox College Lincoln Studies Center annotated edition of
                         the debates; for classroom use and for general browsing, this affordable
                         book is an alternative.




                    Lincoln Legends Myths, Hoaxes, and Confabulations
                              Associated with Our Greatest President By Edward Steers Jr.
                         Introduction by Harold Holzer. (Lexington: University Press of Kentucky,
                         2007. Pp. xvii, 264. Illustrations, notes, index. $24.95.)

                    As Harold Holzer notes in his introduction, even in Lincoln's lifetime
                         there were people who chose "to add the patina of exaggeration"
                         to his biography. Edward Steers examines fourteen different stories of
                         Lincoln's life and death, sorting through the threads of each to
                         distinguish what is verifiable from what is fiction. Seven chapters discuss
                         aspects of Lincoln's personal life, including his relationships with
                         Ann Rutledge and Mary Todd, his religious beliefs, and his sexual
                         preference. Three chapters look at the provenance of Lincoln quotations and
                         questions about the writing of the Gettysburg Address. The final four
                         chapters examine details of Lincoln's assassination, including the
                         guilt or innocence of one convicted conspirator and the identity of the man
                         who held John Wilkes Booth's horse in the alley behind Ford's
                         Theater. Steers is meticulous but never boring, and readers will be
                         fascinated by the variety of tales told about Lincoln's life and
                         death.




                    An Abraham Lincoln Tribute Edited by Bob
                         Blaisdell (Mineola,
                                   N.Y.: Dover Publications, Inc., 2009. Pp.
                         xxi, 135. Notes, illustrations. $10.00.)

                    In 1933, artist Charles Turzek published Abraham Lincoln:
                              Biography in Woodcuts, a textless volume filled with
                         Turzek's striking woodcuts depicting dozens of episodes from
                         Lincoln's life. In addition to reproducing the woodcuts, this small
                         volume adds a preface on the artist and his work, a biographical sketch of
                         Lincoln, short captions for each woodcut, and a modest selection of
                         Lincoln's speeches and letters. The main interest for most readers,
                         however, will still be Turzek's artwork.




                    The Lincoln Assassination The Evidence Edited by
                         William C. Edwards and Edward Steers Jr. (Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 2009.
                         Pp. xxxii, 1456. Notes, illustrations, tables, index. $125.00.)

                    So many scholars and amateur historians have written on the assassination of
                         Lincoln, yet the editors of this volume say that "only a handful"
                         used the massive collection of evidence  now available in this volume. The documents, originally collected in
                         1865 by Colonel Henry Burnett for the prosecution of Lincoln's accused
                         killers, have been in the possession of the National Archives and Records
                         Association (NARA) for decades. NARA microfilmed the original documents in
                         the 1960s, but William Edwards and Edward Steers have undertaken the task
                         of transcribing and organizing the huge file. The editors provide an
                         informative introduction and explanatory notes, and they order the
                         collection alphabetically by letter author. Those deeply invested in the
                         topic will probably make their way through the entire book; other
                         interested readers can profit from browsing and looking up particular
                         individuals in the index. Browsers will come across treasures such as the
                         anonymous letter, dated April 15, 1865, from a New Yorker urging the
                         government to "Offer a reward of one million dollars & have every
                         one of those men caught & hung .... I feel as bad as if was my own
                         mother or father & will be one to volunteer to try & shoot every
                         Southern man" (p. 15). Those interested in a specific individual, such
                         as Mary Surratt, can find indexed entries on her arrest, the evidence given
                         against her, and her sentencing.




               
          
          
               

               

               

               

               

               

               
          
     
