
      ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 104, Issue 4, pages 323-419. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:104+issue:4+year:2008&browseMode=source
    
      ----FULL TEXT----
        
          
               
               
               
               
               
               

          
          
               
               
                    Editor's Note
                    
                         IN THIS ISSUE

                         American voters recently concluded a long and particularly tumultuous
                              presidential campaign with their election of Barack Obama. The nation
                              has seen twenty-six presidential elections since the IMH first
                              appeared in 1905. While Hoosiers have figured prominently as
                              vice-presidential nominees and as presidential hopefuls in several of
                              those campaigns, the level of activity that the state saw from the
                              spring of this year through Election Day has seldom been equaled. To
                              capture 
                                   Indiana's
                               particular contributions to the national political scene
                              in 2008, the IMH has commissioned two scholars - Marjorie Randon
                              Hershey and David Williams - to comment on the 
                                   Indiana
                               Democratic primary and the Supreme Court's
                              decision to uphold the state's "Voter ID"
                              law, respectively. Their essays, written before the November 2008
                              election, appear in this issue.

                         Elsewhere in the issue, you will find two quite different slices of life
                              in twentieth-century 
                                   Indiana
                              : one, an excerpt of the memoir of Dr. Elsie Meyers, a 
                                   St.
                                        Louis
                              -based retired anaesthesiologist who recalls the trials of
                              becoming a physician at midcentury - a time when women, and especially
                              rural women, were a rare commodity indeed in the state's
                              medical community. Alexandra Minna Stern, whom IMH readers will
                              recognize as the author of a March 2007 essay about 
                                   Indiana's
                               first eugenics laws, introduces Meyers's
                              recollections from the perspective of a historian of medicine. After
                              the memoir, longtime IMH contributor Randy Mills reaches back to the
                              turn of the century for an episode that never made it remotely near
                              the annals of scholarly physiology: the discovery and subsequent
                              display of a "petrified man" dredged up on the 
                                   Evansville
                               waterfront. As Mills shows, the hoax resonated with other
                              such  pseudoscientific
                              "discoveries" across the country at a time of great
                              social transformation.
                    
                    
                         THE COST OF DOING BUSINESS
                         In order that we may keep up with rising production costs, we will raise
                              the price of subscribing directly to the IMH, effective January 2009,
                              to $24 per year ($30 for international subscribers). Members of the
                              Indiana Historical Society (IHS) will continue to enjoy a substantial
                              discount from this rate if they elect to order the journal directly
                              from IHS as an addition to their membership (see
                              www.indianahistory.org for details), although we still welcome direct
                              subscribers who wish to order the journal, at the full rate, from our
                              offices at Indiana University. The IMH remains among the most
                              affordable (and we hope among the best) of all historical
                              journals.

                         Finally, as the year draws to a close, I invite our readers to consider
                              offering a tax-deductible contribution to the IMH's
                              Second-Century Fund. If you have given in the past, you know that this
                              fund helps us to cover the costs of special initiatives that go beyond
                              our printing and personnel costs. In 2008, for example, we saw the
                              successful launch of our full-text-searchable IMH
                                   Online (http://webappl.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/), a good
                              example of our continued efforts to offer ever-more useful and
                              compelling historical writing to ever-wider audiences. To contribute,
                              please send your tax-deductible contribution, payable to "IMH
                              Second-Century Fund," to the IU Foundation, Post Office Box
                              500, 
                                   Bloomington
                              , 
                                   Indiana
                              , 47402.
                    
               
               

               
                    Against the Odds: Becoming a Female Physician in Midcentury 
                              Indiana
                         

                    ALEXANDRA MINNA STERN

                    In 1950, Elsie Meyers (née Flint) was one of seven women to graduate with her
                         class of 98 students from Indiana University School of Medicine. This was a
                         remarkable achievement, not only because Dr. Meyers succeeded in what was
                         decidedly a man's world, but because of the many more particular
                         odds that were stacked against this accomplishment.
                    Born northeast of 
                              Wolcottville
                          in 1922, Meyers grew up on a farm with her parents and several
                         siblings. From an early age, she learned the skills of survival and
                         acquired a strong work ethic. Coming of age during the Great Depression,
                         Meyers faced constant challenges. Her family struggled to make ends meet by
                         raising sorghum, trapping rabbits and squirrels for meat, selling homemade
                         butter, cream, and eggs, and, during the summer, foregoing shoes and socks.
                         Demonstrating her dogged determination, Meyers managed to attend and excel
                         in school despite 
                              Alexandra Minna Stern is the Zina Pitcher Collegiate Professor
                                   in the History of Medicine at the University of Michigan. Her
                                   book Eugenic Nation: Faults and Frontiers of Better
                                        Breeding in Modern 
                                             America
                                         won the 2006 Arthur Viseltear Award from
                                   the American Public Health Association. Dr. Stern has published
                                   several articles on the history of public health and medicine in
                                   twentieth-century 
                                        Indiana
                                   .

                              INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (December 2008) C 2008,
                                   Trustees of Indiana University
                         
                         
                         
                              Indiana University School of Medicine lecture,
                                   1942. Women made up fewer than 10 percent of American
                                   medical school graduates at the time that Elsie Meyers attended
                                   IU. Courtesy Indiana University Archives
                          being burdened with numerous household demands. As the Depression
                         gave way to World War II, life gradually improved for the Flint family;
                         they finally purchased an automobile and acquired electricity and plumbing
                         for their home.
                    In the following excerpt from her self-published memoir, we meet Meyers in
                         spring 1940, after she has graduated from high school and as she is
                         embarking on the circuitous path that would take her to college in 
                              Bloomington
                          and medical school in 
                              Indianapolis
                         . Like many people who are called to a particular vocation,
                         Meyers was drawn to medicine at an early age. As a child, she writes, she
                         was deeply affected by witnessing the birth of her baby sister. Yet given
                         expectations for women at the time, Meyers initially set her sights on
                         becoming a nursing instructor. During a brief stay at the local hospital,
                         however, disappointment at the limited range of tasks assigned to nurses
                         disabused her of this plan. From that point on, Meyers harbored a burning
                         desire to go to medical school. Determined to achieve her goal, Meyers
                         charted an independent course that required guts, self-confidence, and an
                         ability to endure much loneliness and personal hardship.
                    

                    This memoir excerpt allows us to follow Meyers on the rocky journey that
                         ultimately led her to become part of the small minority of female
                         physicians who graduated from American medical schools in the mid-twentieth
                         century. In 
                              Indiana
                          her matriculation was even more notable; while women comprised
                         10 percent of the nation's medical school graduates in 1950, they
                         accounted for only 5 percent in 
                              Indiana
                         .1> Furthermore, as she explains, 8 of the
                         15 women in her incoming class eventually dropped out (compared to 22 of
                         the 105 male students). Like the pioneering female medical students who had
                         preceded her, Meyers frequently found that she was held to a higher
                         standard than her male peers, and was more readily and harshly grilled in
                              class.2 Yet Meyers consistently rose to the
                         challenge, bolstered along the way by supportive male and female colleagues
                         as well as by the smattering of male professors who appreciated her
                         intelligence and no-nonsense approach.
                    Perhaps even more difficult than the demands of medical school were the years
                         leading up to it, when Meyers worked to save money for college and became a
                         green undergraduate on the 
                              Bloomington
                          campus. As she describes in this excerpt, Meyers saved up for
                         college by taking the unglamorous position of office girl with two
                         physicians in private practice in northeastern 
                              Indiana
                         . Although she learned an enormous amount on the job, slowly
                         becoming more of a physician's assistant than secretary, Meyers
                         endured a variety of unsettling and humiliating experiences. She regularly
                         improvised - with little or no supervision - during visits to patients
                         living in remote rural areas, including Amish families. In many cases, she
                         was called to assist with what we would today term
                         "high-risk" deliveries, and had to work with families
                         living in dilapidated homes with scant essential supplies (for example, to
                         sterilize medical equipment) to try to ensure the healthy delivery of a
                         baby in a compound or breech position.
                    From today's vantage, we can situate Meyers's experiences
                         in a waning era, as the hospital and not the home became the predominant
                         place for delivery. This important shift had begun as early as the late-
                              
                              1American Medical Association, Women in Medicine in 
                                             America
                                        : In the Mainstream (
                                        Chicago
                                   , 1991), 3.
                              2On women in medicine and medical education
                                   in 
                                        America
                                    see Regina Morantz-Sanchez, Sympathy
                                        and Science: Women Physicians in American Medicine (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1985); and Ellen S. More, Restoring
                                        the Balance: Women Physicians and the Profession of
                                        Medicine, 1850-1955 (
                                        Cambridge
                                   , 
                                        Mass.
                                   , 1999).
                         
                          nineteenth century among middle-class
                         and urban women, but it was only in the 1940s that a majority of rural
                         women began to deliver in hospitals. Rural hospital delivery rates only
                         equaled those of urban women in the 1970s, when they both approached 100
                              percent.3
                         
                              Indiana's
                          slower pace of urbanization (45 percent of Hoosiers were still
                         rural dwellers in 1940) meant that this transition occurred later in 
                              Indiana
                          than it did in many other states.4
                    If Meyers learned some clinical lessons from these rural house calls, she
                         likely carried only emotional scars from one of the most dramatic episodes
                         of her three-year contract at the private medical practice in 
                              LaGrange
                         . One day one of the physicians, who up until that point had
                         often hugged her inappropriately, raped Meyers. Like other women during a
                         time in which the sexual availability of female subordinates in white- and
                         blue-collar jobs was assumed by many male superiors to be an unquestioned
                         right, Meyers had no recourse, either to leave her position or to mount a
                         legal or public challenge.5 Reflecting the times and
                         her determination to complete her contract and continue on to medical
                         school, Meyers not only endured more sexual humiliation at the hands of her
                         employer but kept this violation secret for many years.
                    After finishing her stint as a medical assistant, Meyers was understandably
                         eager to begin her pre-medical and undergraduate coursework at 
                              Bloomington
                         . She was acutely aware of the fact that she was an anomaly: a
                         young, rural white woman from an economically disadvantaged background,
                         arriving at the state's flagship university with a substandard
                         middle and high school education. She faced difficulties on many sides. Her
                         family and neighbors believed she was crazy to think she could become a
                         physician, and they offered little support or enthusiasm. If this
                         skepticism made Meyers more determined, her lack of math and science
                         expertise, as well as the instillation of a black-and-white worldview in
                              
                              3On the history of childbirth and urban
                                   versus rural delivery patterns see Richard W. Wertz and Dorothy
                                   C. Wertz, Lying-In: A History of Childbirth in 
                                             America
                                         (
                                        New Haven
                                   , 
                                        Conn.
                                   , 1977); and Judith Walzer Leavitt, Brought to Bed: Child-bearing in 
                                             America
                                        , 1750-1950 (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1986).
                              4James H. Madison, 
                                             Indiana
                                         through Tradition and Change: A History of the
                                        Hoosier State and its People, 1920-1945 (
                                        Indianapolis
                                   , 1982), 20-21.
                              5On gender norms and sexual violence during
                                   this period (and how they helped to catalyze the 1960s
                                   women's movement) see Ruth Rosen, The World
                                        Split Open: How the Modern Women's Movement Changed 
                                             America
                                        , rev. ed. (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 2006).
                         
                         
                         
                              Meyers (at right) and a friend as freshman medical
                                   students, 1947. As a young, rural woman from an economically and
                                   educationally disadvantaged background, Meyers bucked the odds in
                                   midcentury 
                                        Indiana
                                   . Courtesy of Dr. Elsie Meyers
                          her early schooling, made the nuances of topics such as chemistry
                         and physics initially impenetrable.
                    Over time, however, Meyers shined. She studied sedulously and lived frugally,
                         taking factory jobs over the summer in order to continue to amass her
                         savings. By the time she applied to medical school in 1947, Meyers had
                         mastered many medical and scientific topics and earned the respect of her
                         professors. She clearly impressed the faculty during her interview at the
                         Indiana University School of Medicine, which, because of in-state tuition,
                         was her only option. That she was accepted during a period when
                         universities were committed to enrolling as many returning veterans as
                         possible, most of them subsidized by the G.I. Bill, further testifies to
                         her superb undergraduate record and emerging professional poise.
                    Meyers's story of becoming a female physician against the odds in
                         midcentury 
                              Indiana
                          is as moving on an emotional level as it is historically  instructive. Her memoir opens a
                         window onto life in rural northern 
                              Indiana
                          in the 1940s as well as onto the tribulations of future female
                         physicians during an era in which institutional sexism in higher education
                         was still very much the norm. Ultimately this excerpt captures a decade in
                         the life of a forthright and exceptionally intelligent woman who, despite
                         declarations that she would happily become an "old maid
                         doctor," eventually married, became the mother of three children,
                         and pursued a successful career as an anesthesiologist in 
                              St.
                                   Louis
                         , 
                              Missouri
                         , where she lives today.
               

               

               
                    Doing the "Not Possible" The Memoirs of Elsie F. Meyers,
                         M.D.

                    In the spring of 1940, I graduated from Wolcottville High School. Now I was
                         ready for college. My head was full of going out in the world and being a
                         success. I took a scholarship test for Ball State Teacher's
                         College in 
                              Muncie
                         , and planned to be a teacher of nurses. I had always been
                         interested in medical matters, since witnessing my baby sister's
                         birth. Since Mama and Grandma had been teachers, I decided that teaching
                         was for me. I won a full-tuition, four-year scholarship to Ball State, and
                         told Papa, "Well, I'm all ready for
                         college!"
                    "I cannot help you. There are five of you and I can't
                         afford to send you all; therefore, I can't send any of
                         you."
                    That was that! I was crushed. It was the summer of 1940, and I had no
                         contingency plans. It was obvious that I'd have to earn my own
                         money for college. To give up my dreams never occurred to me. I decided
                         that since I wanted to be a nurse, I should get a job working for doctors.
                         So Mama went with me for an interview with Dr. C. in 
                              LaGrange
                         . Time went by, and I didn't get the job. A couple of
                         weeks later, I went by myself. Dr. C. told me that he had thought I was a
                         wimp, because I had to have my mother with me, so he wasn't going
                         to hire me. But after my solo interview, I got a job as office girl.
                    
                         Elsie F. Meyers is a retired anaesthesiologist living in 
                                   St.
                                        Louis
                              , 
                                   Missouri
                              . This article is excerpted from her self-published
                              full-length memoir of the same title. Some of the people in this
                              excerpt are identified by fictitious initials in order to preserve
                              confidentiality. The editors have added several explanatory footnotes
                              to the original text.
                         INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (December 2008) C 2008, Trustees of
                              Indiana University
                    
                    
                    
                         Elsie Meyers in 1942, near the start of her career path.
                              Meyers took her first job with a medical practice in northeastern 
                                   Indiana
                               at the age of seventeen. Courtesy of the author
                    
                    
                         MY FIRST JOB

                         I was hired to work half days, from eight a.m. until noon, for six
                              dollars per week - an hourly wage of thirty cents. Since I had no car,
                              I couldn't commute seven miles a day to and from the farm. My
                              4-H leader, Mrs. Chase, had a daughter, Mrs. Brown, who lived in 
                                   LaGrange
                               and needed help. So I worked at the Browns' for
                              my room and board. J. S. and Helen Brown, my employers, owned the
                              Rexall Drug Store. They had a daughter of their own, plus a daughter
                              by his first wife, who had died of eclampsia soon after giving birth.
                              Their girls were lovely,  ages two
                              and four. Soon after my arrival a third child, Fred, was born. I did
                              my best to help as much as I could. I tended the children, washed
                              clothes and diapers, cleaned house, and did some cooking. The Browns
                              were very nice to me.
                         In order to obtain the job at the doctors' office, I had to
                              promise to work for them for three years. Dr. C.'s partner,
                              Dr. A., required that I put this pledge in writing, which I did. He
                              also told me that I would never go to college - that once people
                              stopped school, they always quit school. I was a real country bumpkin,
                              naive and trusting. That was the first and last time I ever signed
                              away a chunk of my life. And I had no doubt that I was going to
                              college, somehow.
                         My total monetary assets were the $10 that I had received in high school
                              graduation gifts. With it, I purchased six white uniforms and a pair
                              of white shoes, leaving me a three dollar balance for my college fund.
                              I worked mornings at the doctors' office and afternoons for
                              the Browns. I was an office girl, sort of a "Jack of all
                              trades." I learned to do simple urinalyses and blood counts,
                              to assist with office procedures, and to act as a receptionist,
                              greeting and signing in patients, obtaining their charts, preparing
                              examining rooms, and escorting patients around the office. I made
                              ledger entries, filed charts, took payments, gave receipts, typed,
                              shoveled coal into the furnace, did simple cleaning chores, unpacked
                              drugs and supplies, and in general tried to make myself useful. My
                              college fund was growing very slowly, but I was learning about
                              medicine.
                         My employers had a large practice. There were two other girls besides me
                              in the office. One worked days, the other afternoons and evenings.
                              After I had been there about six months, the afternoon-and-evening
                              girl left to care for her ill mother. I then stepped into her place,
                              starting at noon and working until the last patient left at night,
                              usually at nine or ten o'clock. I still worked mornings for
                              room and board.
                    
                    
                         GRANDMA JOINS ME
                         One day, I told Grandma Flint Healey that I wished she lived in 
                                   LaGrange
                              , instead of 
                                   Wolcottville
                              , so that I could live with her. She was lonely, living
                              all alone after Grandpa Healey died. Grandma made the decision to join
                              me. I needed to save money, and wanted to split expenses with her. And
                              I couldn't keep working so many hours for room and board plus
                              my office duties. So she moved to a tiny apartment in 
                                   LaGrange
                              . We had one room and a bath. In the corner of our room
                              was a homemade sink covered with zinc, the core of our kitchen. We  had a coal heating stove, and we
                              slept on a hide-a-bed that we made into a sofa every morning. But we
                              were happy, warm, and well-fed. We economized on everything so I could
                              save money. Our day-old bread cost five cents a loaf. Grandma kept
                              house and did the washing and ironing for us both. At work, I was
                              taking on more responsibility and learning. My salary improved. More
                              office girls were hired as the practice increased in size.
                         After we had lived in these small quarters for six months or so, Grandma
                              found a lovely, upstairs apartment in the home of a silver-haired,
                              retired teacher, Mrs. Mable Huey, who lived on the first floor. The
                              apartment had a lovely front bedroom, a living room, a kitchen, a tiny
                              back bedroom, a crude utility room, and for a bathroom, a closet with
                              a toilet in it, but no sink or bathtub. What an improvement!
                         Grandma slept in the front bedroom, and I in the back. She brought more
                              furniture from storage to amply furnish the apartment. We used to sit
                              on the front porch swing with Mrs. Huey, of whom we were very fond.
                              Her house was old, but the walls had been recently papered and the
                              woodwork painted. It was clean, light, and cheerful. I began to need
                              some clothes, so I bought a sewing machine with some of my savings and
                              sewed for Grandma and me in my time off.
                    
                    
                         SURPRISING APPENDECTOMY RESULT
                         One Saturday, I didn't feel well at work, but I got through the
                              day and evening, despite the nausea and tummy ache. But after I went
                              to bed, I became febrile and my abdomen became quite uncomfortable. I
                              knew I had appendicitis, so I called Drs. C. and A.; they performed an
                              emergency appendectomy early the next morning at the Sturgis hospital.
                              The folks took me in the car; every bump on the way hurt my tummy. A
                              general practitioner, Dr. Q., gave me a spinal anesthetic, but it
                              didn't work; then he gave me open-drop ether. He dropped some
                              ether on a mask, put it on my face, and told me to take a big breath.
                              I took one breath and passed out (probably from laryngospasm and
                                   hypoxia1), and woke up later feeling
                              wretched.
                         
                              1The National Institutes of Health define
                                   hypoxia as a "condition in which there is a decrease of
                                   oxygen supply to the brain even though there is adequate blood
                                   flow." Among other conditions, "complications
                                   of general anesthesia can create conditions that can lead to
                                   cerebral hypoxia."
                                   (http://www.ninds.nih.gov/disorders/anoxia/anoxia.htm)
                         
                         
                         This was my first time as a hospital patient. Nurses came, changed my
                              bed, helped me bathe, brought bedpans in and out, brought food trays
                              in and out, took vital signs, and gave me medicine. And they rubbed my
                              back. I don't know what I had expected nurses to do, but I
                              expected more than that. Now I knew that being a nurse was not for me.
                              I wanted more. Now I had to recuperate from my surgery, as well as to
                              try to decide what career I wanted to follow. I was pretty upset to
                              have my big nurse ideal smashed and not to know what I wanted to do,
                              instead.
                         So at work, I learned as much as I could. I would be an x-ray
                              technician. I learned to make x-ray solutions and to develop and fix
                              the films. I took x-rays with the big machine. Boring. That
                              wasn't it.
                         Then I considered laboratory technology. I studied books and learned to
                              do a variety of simple lab tests. I learned to make blood smears and
                              to stain and fix them. I could do differential white counts. I
                              struggled with the long foreign words: polymorphonuclear neutrophils,
                              basophils, monocytes, eosinophils, and lymphocytes. Boring. Lab
                              technology wasn't it, either.
                         One night, after Papa had come to visit Grandma and me at Mrs.
                              Huey's, I walked him to his car. Standing there by Route 20,
                              I told Papa that I didn't know what to do with my life.
                         "Sometimes I think I should be a doctor!"
                         "Well, why don't you do it?"
                         Papa had given me permission.
                    

                    
                         WORKING AND LEARNING
                         Papa had given me his permission to do the nearly impossible. I had no
                              science background and very little money. And I had never heard of a
                              female doctor, much less seen one. Only men were doctors. But that was
                              now my secret goal: I wanted to be a doctor! I think that my
                              father's believing in me was what gave me the strength to
                              try. I would never marry, I decided. After observing my parents, I
                              wanted to be an old maid. I would concentrate on my career.
                         My folks now had one of the finest farms in Johnson Township. They could easily have managed to send me to college,
                              and my siblings, too. But the farm was what was important. And the
                              boys were important, for they were destined to help run the farm and,
                              eventually, to take it over. Girls were insignificant in the grand
                              scheme. We could marry some farmer and live happily ever after
                              somewhere. Little did I realize how lucky I was not to be expected to
                              stay on the farm. I had a few dates and three boys wanted to marry me,
                              but I was not interested in marriage. Not  at all. I made that clear on the first
                              date, so as not to mislead them. I had some fun dates. And I was a
                              virgin.
                         At work, I was learning more and more. I could now identify diseases
                              such as Parkinsonism, rheumatic fever, St. Vitus' Dance, and
                              childhood diseases such as measles, mumps, chicken pox, and whooping
                              cough. I learned what medicine was given for each affliction, how to
                              treat cuts, fractures, burns, ears plugged with wax, etc. And I
                              learned the consequences of what I later discovered had been improper
                              treatment. I became very involved in obstetrical cases, also.
                    
                    
                         HOME OBSTETRICS
                         After assisting with a number of deliveries in the home, I was left by
                              myself to stay with the parturient woman, sterilize the instruments,
                              get everything ready for the delivery, then phone the doctor to come
                              and deliver the baby - not too early, and not too late. In the case of
                              the county's many Amish residents, who had no phones, this
                              was a bit of a challenge, for I had to know how far their house was
                              from the nearest phone, and add extra time for horse and buggy
                              transportation to the phone. I learned to perform rectal examinations
                              to determine the degree of cervical dilation and the station of the
                              fetal head. I supported the mother, urged her to push when it was
                              time, gave ether analgesia for the delivery, then gave the baby its
                              eye drops, and washed and dressed it. The doctor delivered the baby
                              and placenta; I gave the pitocin, a drug to cause the uterus to
                              contract, and he tied the baby's cord. Then I made routine
                              post-partum calls.
                         Once, I called Dr. C. too late. We had been called at about 5 a. m. to
                              deliver an Amish lady pregnant for her fourteenth child. Dr. C.
                              examined her and left, saying that she had made no progress in labor
                              and couldn't possibly deliver before noon. I got everything
                              sterilized and set up for delivery and relaxed my vigil a bit, while
                              watching the feverish activity of about 10 children getting hair
                              combed and braided, lunches packed, and breakfasts eaten. After all,
                              it was over five hours until noon! Suddenly, I heard a loud groan from
                              the bedroom. I had just enough time to give a little ether analgesia,
                              get gloved, and deliver the baby. By the time the doctor arrived, the
                              placenta was delivered, the pitocin given, the cord tied, and the baby
                              cleaned and dressed. I never trusted a grand multipara for a minute,
                              after that.2
                         
                              2The term "grand
                                   multipara" refers to any woman who has given birth seven
                                   or more times.
                         
                         
                         I usually had to spend much longer than that with the mother in labor.
                              On nights when there were severe storms with thunder and lightning,
                              labor would always stop. I rode out many a storm trying to catch a
                              little sleep while stretched out on three straight-backed chairs or a
                              bench. After a long night, the grandmother would always offer me
                              breakfast - and what breakfasts! There was sausage, eggs, potatoes,
                              cereal, toast, cake, fruit, pies, milk, coffee, and all sorts of
                              spreads for bread: butter, honey, preserves, jam, and jelly. But I was
                              always too tired to eat more than a few bites.
                         Dr. A. had a young patient who had, much to the chagrin of her youthful
                              boyfriend's family, gotten pregnant. There was a shotgun type
                              of wedding, after which the young bride was a very unwelcome member of
                              her husband's family, with whom the couple lived. The poor
                              girl went into labor and did not tell her mother-in-law. Her husband
                              came in for supper, just as the baby, a breech presentation, was born.
                              Unfortunately, the head was not delivered. The frantic family called
                              us at the office, describing the situation. That car trip was the
                              fastest, most reckless trip I've ever had. We ran into the
                              house a few minutes later and Dr. A. grabbed the baby's feet,
                              rotated the head, and as the mother screamed with pain from the large
                              laceration that ensued, the head was delivered. The baby's
                              heart was beating, but the baby didn't breathe. We
                              didn't know how to resuscitate properly then. I
                              didn't, anyway, and neither did the doctor. I got basins of
                              warm and cold water, into which he dipped the baby, trying to shock it
                              into breathing. (We treated shock shockingly!) I gave coramine, as per
                              Dr. A.'s orders, but the baby died.3
                              During this excitement, the tall husband fainted and I tried to catch
                              him, but we both landed in a heap on the floor. The in-laws were
                              beside themselves with guilt and grief. It was a very sad scene. I
                              don't know what happened to the young wife and her marriage,
                              but I doubt that the outcome was happy. We left there with very heavy
                              hearts.
                         
                              3Meyers explains that "coramine, no
                                   longer used to my knowledge, was considered to be a heart
                                   stimulant. The baby died of hypoxia because he was unable to
                                   breathe. Today, after delivery, that baby's airway would
                                   immediately be cleared of mucous and blood. Then he'd be
                                   given mouth-to-mouth respiration until he began breathing on his
                                   own. If his heart stopped beating, compressions of the heart
                                   would be added to the respiratory aid. These efforts would
                                   persist for awhile before the baby would be pronounced dead.
                                   Since this baby lost his life, great strides have been made in
                                   resuscitation."
                         
                    

                    
                    
                         THE "IMPOSSIBLE" DELIVERY
                         I recall another memorable obstetrical case of Dr. A.'s Mrs. T.
                              was a multipara with perhaps four or five children already. She was
                              married to a tenant farmer; the farm was miles out of town on a muddy,
                              dirt, side road. The family was not very bright. They were too poor to
                              have a phone. Mrs. T. went into labor, but made no progress. Dr. A.
                              and I rushed out there three nights in a row, but labor did not
                              progress. We were working our usual daytime hours , and were becoming
                              very tired. I didn't know enough about obstetrics to realize
                              that warning flags were flying - i.e., that something must be amiss if
                              a multipara makes no progress, after hours and hours of hard
                              labor.
                         At noon on Saturday, just before the weekly rush of patients was about
                              to inundate the office, Mr. T. called, asking Dr. A. to come at once:
                              his wife was ready to have her baby. Dr. A. was disgusted. We had been
                              out there again in the wee hours of the morning. I had sterilized the
                              instruments and left them sealed in a kettle.
                         Dr. A. was not about to leave the office on another "wild goose
                              chase." But he sent me. I had to go to Harry
                              Timmis's Ford garage and borrow a car. When I entered the
                              T.'s house, I could tell by Mrs. T.'s loud screams
                              and groans that delivery was imminent. Mr. T. saw me and was livid
                              with rage.
                         "Where in the Hell is the doctor? Why didn't he
                              come?"
                         "He wanted to be sure it was time. Please go and call him and
                              tell him I want him here, now." I was frightened of Mr. T. I
                              had work to do and I had to get him out of my way. Obviously, Dr. A.
                              could not get there in time for the delivery. I examined Mrs. T.
                              Through the thin vaginal-rectal wall, I felt a baby's hand.
                              Mrs. T. was screaming wildly and threshing around, but the baby
                              wasn't coming. Her retarded-looking sister-in-law was there;
                              I enlisted her aid, becoming deadly calm.
                         "Hold this mask over her nose and mouth, and put a drop of this
                              ether onto the mask whenever I say, "Drop." Now,
                              drop ... drop ... drop," I repeated, as I struggled to put on
                              the wet, sterile gloves. "Drop ... drop ..." The
                              screaming subsided. Mrs. T. was getting some pain relief and was
                              becoming able to cooperate with me, without wasting her effort on
                              screaming.
                         I examined her. There was a compound presentation of the baby's
                              head and shoulder, with the arm prolapsing from the cervix. The baby
                              was stuck. Really stuck. I ran my finger around the shoulder and tried
                              to pull it free.
                         
                         "Drop, drop, drop. Now, push, please!" I began to
                              sweat. I grasped the head with one hand and the shoulder with the
                              other and pulled gently, but firmly. "Drop, drop. Push again
                              now!" I rotated the shoulder a bit. I pulled, now
                              desperately. "Now, PUSH!" and the baby was born -
                              alive! Mrs. T. was awakened right away by the baby's lusty
                              cries.
                         "Congratulations! You have a healthy baby girl!" I had
                              aspirated the baby's mouth and throat. The airway was clear.
                              I tied and cut the cord, wrapped the baby in a blanket and gave her to
                              the sister-in-law to hold. Then I massaged the uterus, delivered the
                              placenta, and gave the pitocin.
                         Dr. A. came soon afterward. He massaged the uterus and talked to the
                              T.'s. I put the drops in the baby's eyes, and bathed
                              and dressed her with shaking hands. I had never seen a compound
                              presentation before - nor have I seen one since! I felt absolutely
                              drained. (I later learned from obstetric textbooks that it is
                              absolutely impossible to deliver a baby with a compound presentation
                              vaginally. According to common wisdom, a Caesarean section must be
                              done. Otherwise, the baby will die.) I had had a terrific struggle,
                              and every muscle in my body ached for several days. Poor Mrs. T. could
                              never have cooperated had she not had the benefit of some analgesia.
                              Her sister-in-law's help had been invaluable. Mrs. T. was a
                              very cooperative patient, and I was just plain lucky.
                         On arrival in 
                                   LaGrange
                              , I returned the car to Mr. Timmis and faced the end of
                              the Saturday afternoon melee. Little did I know that the
                              day's excitement was not yet over.
                    
                    
                         DEATH IN THE BARNYARD
                         The phone rang at six p.m.
                         I answered, "Dr. C. and A.'s Office."
                         "Hello, hello! Send the coroner out to the T.'s house
                              right away!" My heart sank. I hadn't tied the cord
                              properly. The baby had exsanguinated. Or Mrs. T. had died. It was my
                              fault. I could barely speak; my voice squeaked as I asked,
                         "What happened?"
                         '"The hired man shot his brains out!" A wave
                              of relief spread over me, leaving me weak.
                         "I'll tell the coroner. He will come as soon as he
                              can. Just leave everything at the scene untouched." Dr. C.
                              had run for office of county coroner, and had won. He performed his
                              coroner duties plus his family practice.
                         I gave Dr. C. directions to the T.'s house. I knew the
                              directions well, having been there so many times in the past few days.
                              But the directions  were
                              complicated, and Dr. C. was confused. "Oh, hell, just drive
                              me out there. I'll never find that house. It's in
                              the boondocks!"
                         On our arrival, Mr. T. directed us to the barnyard. There, behind the
                              remains of the straw stack, was a very dead young man, the top of
                              whose head had been blown off. The shotgun was in his hands, which lay
                              atop his body. I had never seen brains before. Then I looked again.
                              The man was Myles Smith. Myles was a boy, several years older than I,
                              who was retarded. When I was in third grade, our teacher gave me the
                              job of teaching him how to write his name. So he and I spent hours
                              together every day for months working on the task. I would write out
                              his name and ask him to trace over it, which he did willingly.
                         They searched his pockets. There was a piece of paper on which he had
                              laboriously written his name, just as I had taught him to write it all
                              those years before. I guess maybe Myles was afraid of Mr. T. too. Was
                              Myles the father of the new baby? Had Mr. T. known? Had he shot
                              himself? Or did Mr. T. shoot him? None of those questions will ever be
                              answered, which is probably just as well. (But now, as I write this
                              years later, I realize that had Myles shot himself, the gun would have
                              been jolted from his grasp by the back-fire effect.) Mr. T., it
                              appears, had gotten away with Myles's murder.
                    
                    
                         DEADLY DISEASES OF THE R.'S

                         The R. family was on relief. Mr. and Mrs. R. were ill with chronic
                              diseases, including diabetes, heart trouble, and hypertension. They
                              had about eight children who ran around town, dirty and ragged. The
                              R.'s couldn't do anything but menial work. They
                              lived in a run-down house on the edge of town. They frequently had
                              overpowering health problems. They didn't understand anything
                              about nutrition. The children ate ice cream cones and drank sodas from
                              the Browns' Drug Store.
                         It was in their kitchen that I saw my first case of meningitis. The
                              young daughter had a very stiff back and neck. Her head was tilted
                              backwards. Her temperature was high, and she was unable to cooperate.
                              Dr. A. needed my help to do a spinal tap. I held her on the kitchen
                              table while the doctor got a sample of spinal fluid to be analyzed at
                              Sturgis Hospital. He told me to wear a handkerchief over my face, as a
                              mask, then to take it off and burn it.4 I
                              don't remember enough details to know 
                                   4Meyers writes: "Some types of
                                        meningitis are extremely dangerous and easily spread. These
                                        days, college students receive vaccinations for protection
                                        from meningococcal meningitis, a deadly form. At that time,
                                        however, I was at risk. I should have been protected by an
                                        adequate mask as well as protective gear - including a large
                                        gown and head covering - and antiseptic solutions for my
                                        hands."
                              
                               what type of meningitis she had.
                              But she survived, and no one else caught it.
                         Months later, one night I was alone in the office; Drs. C. and A. were
                              operating at Sturgis Hospital. Mr. R. telephoned, saying, "My
                              boy is sick. Send Dr. A. right away."
                         "I am sorry that the doctor is operating at the hospital now. I
                              shall give him your message. Please tell me what is
                              wrong."
                         "He's got a belly ache and he's been uhh
                              pukin' all day. He's sick. How soon can the doctor
                              come?"
                         "I'll call him right away and find out." I
                              gave him a message in the operating room. He told the nurse to tell me
                              to try to figure out what was going on, and to call him.
                         I made a kit containing a thermometer, pipettes and equipment for
                              getting a blood count, flashlight, and stethoscope. I followed Mrs. R.
                              up the narrow stairs to a small bed occupied by a small boy, covered
                              by a comforter. He was about eight years old and was extremely ill
                              with a temperature of 104 degrees, dehydration, and a rigid silent
                              abdomen with tenderness, very marked in the right lower quadrant. I
                              thought that he had an acute appendix, which had probably ruptured.
                              His white blood count turned out to be very high - over 40,000.
                         I gave this information to the operating room nurse. The doctors told
                              her to tell me to get permission of the township trustee for payment
                              and to send the child by ambulance to County Hospital. They would go
                              there directly from Sturgis Hospital. The trustee said that the
                              township would pay. Now I had to get Mr. R.'s permission for
                              surgery. He rocked in his old, squeaky rocking chair as I explained
                              that we thought his son needed immediate surgery, and explained
                              why.
                         "He ain't gonna have no operation."
                         I explained again, and he repeated, "I already said he
                              ain't gonna have no operation, and he ain't. And
                              that's that!"
                         In my deadly calm voice, using measured tones, I told him, "I
                              am quite positive that he has appendicitis and that if the appendix
                              has not already burst, it will very soon. Without surgery, he will
                              die. With surgery, he has a chance to live and be healthy, but he will
                              still be very sick, and there is no guarantee that he will not
                              die."

                         

                         "I don't care. He ain't gonna have no
                              operation!"
                         "Mr. R., I hope you will change your mind. If you do not let us
                              help him, you will be responsible for killing him just as surely as if
                              you were to take an ax and strike him in the head. It would be just
                              like murder."
                         Silence. Rock, rock, went the squeaky chair. And then, "OK, he
                              can have the operation."
                         In no time, the child was taken by ambulance to County Hospital, where
                              he had an emergency appendectomy for his ruptured appendix. The new
                              drug, Sulfanilamide, was sprinkled into his abdomen and the wound
                                   drained5. He had a very rocky recovery, but
                              he survived.
                    
                    
                         MY FIRST SOLO OB CASE

                         On December 7, 1941, a Sunday, I had the duty at the office. That was
                              the day the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor. My three-year stint of
                              working for Drs. C. & A. was about half over. Dr. C. told me,
                              "You don't realize what going to war means. Your
                              life will never be the same."
                         The office was soon inundated with patients, for five of the eight
                              doctors in the county were called to service, leaving only Drs. C. and
                              A., plus an elderly doctor in 
                                   Howe
                              . I tried my best to help fill the void. There were more
                              and more maternity cases. The office got busier and busier. I took
                              care of some of the emergencies that I could handle, when no doctor
                              was available, such as treating simple wounds by cleaning and suturing
                              them, and giving tetanus antitoxin. I could refill routine
                              prescriptions, give injections ordered by the doctors, and make house
                              calls for routine treatments. I was sent to give an elderly man a
                              diuretic injection, but found that he did not need it, and told the
                              doctors so. I was learning enough to know indications and
                              contraindications of some of the drugs, much to their surprise.
                         One Saturday afternoon, a lady ran into the office crying and begging,
                              "Please come at once to care for my sister-in-law, Mrs. P.
                              She is about to have a baby!" Mrs. P. had received no
                              prenatal care at our office. Furthermore, she had had three
                              confinements before that, for which she had never paid a cent.
                         "We are already carrying a very heavy load of patients here. We
                              cannot come."
                         
                              5"By the 1940s sulfanilamide was a
                                   widely used drug," often utilized in "the
                                   treatment of open wounds."
                                   (http://wwwbritannica.com/EBchecked/topic/572427/
                                   sulfa-drug).
                         

                         
                         The sister-in-law begged for help. Finally, it was agreed that I would
                              be sent to care for her. I was not to ask for help unless I got into
                              trouble. I was an eighteen-year-old midwife! Having me was hopefully
                              better than having nobody.
                         On arriving at the patient's home on the edge of town, I
                              enlisted the aid of the sister-in-law. We put the instruments in a
                              kettle to boil on the old kerosene stove. When I checked to see how
                              they were doing, I found that there had been a small hole in the
                              bottom of the kettle, which had allowed water to drip onto the flame
                              and put it out. A bad beginning!
                         The sister-in-law borrowed a satisfactory pan from a neighbor. Labor
                              continued for several hours. Finally, it was time for delivery. The
                              sister-in-law gave ether analgesia per my instructions, and the baby
                              girl was born without problems, except that when I held her by the
                              feet to clear her airway, I almost dropped her, for her feet were very
                              slippery and she was an enormous baby, over eleven pounds. The mother
                              was elated. It was the best birthing experience she had ever had. She
                              had felt no pain.
                         In the late afternoon when I returned to the office, I was extremely
                              tired. Being responsible for two lives all by myself had been a
                              draining experience. The parents wanted to name their daughter after
                              me; I told them they'd best use my middle name, Ellen, since
                              I'd never liked my first name, but I was flattered. Of
                              course, they never paid my employers anything for my services.
                    
                    
                         NOW I'M A MURDERESS!

                         One day, an event occurred which would affect the rest of my life. Dr.
                              C. said to me, "We have to amputate Mrs. Y.'s leg.
                              This Amish lady is diabetic and is very sick with her gangrenous leg.
                              Dr. Q. is coming from Sturgis to give her an anesthetic. Would you
                              come to the operating room and help him by checking her blood pressure
                              every few minutes?"
                         I had never been in an operating room or seen an amputation before. But
                              I did know how to take blood pressures. "Yes, I guess I can
                              handle that," I said somewhat tentatively.
                         In the operating room, I placed my blood pressure cuff on Mrs.
                              Y.'s left upper arm. I checked and recorded the blood
                              pressure. Then I held Mrs. Y. in the sitting position, while Dr. Q.
                              gave her the spinal anesthetic. "Now, we'll lay her
                              down," he said. I helped. But in the process, the tubing of
                              the blood pressure apparatus was caught beneath the patient's
                              head. I couldn't check her blood pressure.
                         
                         'Dr. Q., can you please help me get the tubing loose so I can
                              check her pressure?"
                         "Oh sure. No problem. Here, I'll lift the head up a
                              bit and you can pull the tubing out." This being
                              accomplished, I checked the blood pressure. There was none. Drs. C.
                              & A. had made the incision. The blood looked very dark.
                         "Oh here, let me check," Dr. Q. said irritably. He
                              checked. He agreed. "She's right. There is no blood
                              pressure!"
                         I don't know what the standard of care was at that time. But I
                              do know that we had almost no information about the patient. There was
                              no EKG or chest x-ray report to check. We knew nothing about her
                              acid-base balance or her blood chemistries.
                         Dr. Q. had no intravenous infusion started, nor drugs or oxygen
                              available for resuscitation. The patient was dead! Drs. C. and A. kept
                              operating anyway. When they were finished, the patient's body
                              was covered by a sheet. And in the corner of the operating room was
                              her leg, wrapped in another sheet. Never was the saying more true that
                              "The operation was a success, but the patient
                              died."
                         I was quite traumatized by this event, but managed to keep myself
                              composed. Afterward, I changed out of operating clothes into my office
                              uniform and joined Dr. C. for the trip back to the office. En route,
                              he asked, "Well, do you know what you did in
                              there?"
                         "Yes, I checked her blood pressure."
                         "No, you killed that woman! You raised her head. That made all
                              the anesthetic go to her head and that killed her. You killed
                              her!"
                         "I did not raise her head. Dr. Q. did. I only retrieved the
                              tubing and checked her pressure."
                         "No, it is your fault. You killed her!"
                         I was devastated. I was eighteen years old, and already, I was a
                              murderess. What an awful beginning for my life! I tried to carry out
                              my office duties, but I was fighting back tears. I went off by myself
                              and cried briefly. Then I pulled myself together and thought,
                              "This is ridiculous. Of course I didn't kill her,
                              for I didn't lift her head. I only did what I was told. And I
                              don't think it was right for the surgery to be done on a dead
                              woman!" I tried to get on with the rest of my life and forget
                              about it.
                    
                    
                         LOSS OF RESPECT

                         Doctors C. & A. had met while working at a clinic outside of 
                                   Indiana
                              . They often made reference to their experiences there. I
                              gathered  that they felt
                              they'd been taken advantage of and that they had not been
                              adequately paid for their work. So Dr. C. went into practice in 
                                   LaGrange
                              , needed help, and was joined by Dr. A. They both started
                              families there.
                         My feelings for medical doctors were extremely respectful. I thought
                              that they lived on a different, higher plane than regular people. They
                              understood how the body worked and knew what to do when something went
                              wrong. I thought that they cared about people and always had their
                              best interests at heart. Doctors could be trusted with one's
                              very life, sort of like a minister could be trusted with
                              one's soul. And doctors were trusted with people's
                              feelings. A great deal of Dr. C. & A.'s work was in
                              treating people who were anxious and upset. But it seemed to me to be
                              a breech of trust to give such a patient a placebo.
                         Dr. A., a tall, handsome man in his late 30's, was rather aloof
                              and judgmental. He didn't endear himself to people, because
                              of his somewhat stiff demeanor. So his contribution to the practice
                              was rather small. He would spend a great deal of time behind his
                              closed door with the patients that he did see. Dr. C. would probably
                              see six or eight patients to his one.
                         Dr. C. was a tall, somewhat overweight man in his 40's, about
                              Papa's age. He was friendly and outgoing with his patients
                              and inspired their confidence. So he was very busy, indeed. He did the
                              surgery and Dr. A. was his assistant. He was rather cynical, and did
                              not always do what he should have done. I knew when he did illegal
                              abortions on women who did not want their babies. There would be
                              iodine all over the examining table, after a pelvic exam. Then, within
                              a couple of days, the patient would "miscarry." I
                              guessed that he had placed iodine swabs into the cervix.6 One patient hemorrhaged profusely during her
                              "miscarriage" and I had to help him perform a
                              dilation and evacuation of the remnants of conception in the privacy
                              of the patient's bedroom.
                         
                              6IMH contributor Alexandra Stern writes that
                                   early twentieth-century physicians often induced abortions by one
                                   of three methods: 1) administering certain drugs; 2) irritating
                                   the cervix, usually with a catheter or other objects; or 3)
                                   dilating the cervix with dilators or tampons in order to do a
                                   dilation and curettage (D&C) procedure. After one of
                                   these resulted in hemorrhaging, the doctor would be able to claim
                                   the woman had a miscarriage. Meyers's account suggests
                                   that Dr. C. was not using the iodine for its generally intended
                                   purposes, but was instead taking advantage of its corrosive/toxic
                                   properties in order to induce bleeding or hemorrhaging. For more
                                   information about "miscarriages" that were
                                   really medically induced abortions, see Leslie J. Reagan, When Abortion was a Crime: Women, Medicine, and Law
                                        in the 
                                             United
                                                  States
                                        , 1867-1973 (
                                        Berkeley
                                   , 
                                        Calif.
                                   , 1997).
                         
                         
                         One day, a farmer's wife came to Dr. C. with pelvic
                              inflammatory disease from gonorrhea. He treated her, but took no
                              measures to enlighten her about her problem or how to prevent a
                              recurrence. He just laughed and told me, "Well, the old man
                              gave her the clap!" Maybe there was nothing he should have
                              done. But as far as I was concerned, she had trusted him with her
                              problem, and by giving her no enlightenment, he had betrayed that
                              trust.
                         To me, Dr. C. was a father figure. He gave me a hug sometimes, but I
                              considered it to be just a fatherly gesture. Actually, I liked it, for
                              I had never had any affection from my father. And then, within the
                              last year of my contract, he raped me. It happened in the small room
                              at the end of the hall where we did diathermy treatments.7 It was late at night, after Dr. A and all the
                              patients had left. He weighed about 200 pounds, and was much stronger
                              than I. I was shocked when he unzipped his pants. I cried out,
                              "No, no, let me be. Please let me be. I don't want a
                              baby!" The pain of penetration was intense. I screamed,
                              "No, no, let me be! Stop, stop!" And then it was
                              over. He withdrew before ejaculation and spilled his semen all over my
                              abdomen. I was shattered. And I bled for a couple of weeks. The next
                              day, I brought up the subject of what he had done to me. He replied,
                              "That's not true. You wanted it."
                         "You know I didn't want it. I told you!"
                    
                    
                         IS SUICIDE THE ANSWER?
                         After Dr. C raped me, I had nowhere to turn. Nobody would believe me,
                              should I make a fuss. I knew that. He was an influential, respected
                              doctor, an elected official. I was nobody. And besides, I had signed a
                              paper stating that I would work there three years, and I
                              didn't have enough money for college yet. I had nowhere to
                              turn, no place to go. I went to bed at night in my little room and
                              cried myself to sleep. Nobody ever asked me what was wrong, but I
                              think that Grandma told my parents about the crying.
                         Dr. C. had sex with me other times after that and I ceased to resist.
                              But I felt awful - betrayed, guilty, dirty, a sinner of the worst
                              order. I 
                                   7Diathermy is a "deep-tissue
                                        heat treatment. The temperature of the injured tissues is
                                        raised by high frequency current, ultrasonic waves, or
                                        microwave radiation. Like surface heating, deep heat is used
                                        to reduce pain, relieve muscle spasm, decrease soft-tissue
                                        contractures, resolve inflammation and promote
                                        healing." See the University of Iowa Hospitals and
                                        Clinics "Health Topics" webpage
                                        (http://www.uihealthcare.com/topics/sportsmedicine/spor3327.html).
                              
                               began to realize that he was
                              having sex with other girls in the office also. I decided that I would
                              be better off dead.
                         One day when I was alone in the office, I sat on a stool in the
                              workroom, looking at a big, twenty-milliliter syringe and at the drugs
                              that I could quickly inject to kill myself. Then I tried to think of
                              what effect my death would have. I thought about all the people I
                              knew. But most importantly, I didn't really want to die.
                         So I pulled myself together and finished my three-year stint as office
                              assistant. I was very happy to leave that den of sin. A short time
                              before I left, Dr. A came behind me and put his hands on my breasts. I
                              took them away, didn't say a word, and walked out. He
                              didn't try it again.
                         I have never discussed the rape. It is not easy for me to write about
                              it. But it is part of my life, and if this account is to be worthwhile
                              at all, I have to tell it like it was.
                    
                    
                         OFF TO INDIANA UNIVERSITY

                         My leaving for college wasn't a very auspicious event. I simply
                              packed two suitcases and stood out in front of the farmhouse and
                              waited for a bus to take me to 
                                   Ft.
                                        Wayne
                              . Then I transferred to a bus for 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , where I transferred to the bus for 
                                   Bloomington
                              . The whole trip took about ten hours. I had learned a
                              great deal about life, during my three years in 
                                   LaGrange
                              , but I was quite anxious about traveling, having had no
                              experience. I took my first taxi ride to my dorm, and went out for my
                              first restaurant meal. I even left an appropriate tip. I had saved my
                              money, and believed that I could get through seven years of college
                              and medical school by economizing and by working summers.
                         Pre-med was not easy for me, with my lack of math and science background
                              in rural high school. My freshman advisor was Herr Doktor Wooley, my
                              German professor.8 He was a very kindly man who
                              looked over my grades and observed that the English literature,
                              composition, and German classes were going well for me, but that I was
                              below average in chemistry. He suggested logically, "Maybe
                              you should switch from pre-med to a different course, since
                              you're not doing well in science."
                         
                              8Dr. Elmer Otto Wooley graduated from
                                   Indiana University in 1907 and received his PhD from IU in 1915.
                                   In 1930 he returned to the university as an assistant professor
                                   in the German Department. Although he retired from IU in 1954, he
                                   continued to tutor students in German until his death in 1964
                                   (http://www.indiana.edu/-liblilly/lilly/mss/html/wooleye.html).
                         
                         
                         
                              The author as a pre-medical student, ever-present
                                   book in hand. Courtesy of the author
                         
                         "No, I will get it. I have worked three years to get here, and
                              I will learn it, somehow!" My problem was that everything was
                              more or less black and white to me. I had trouble imagining protons
                              and neutrons and atoms. My classmates were from big city schools where
                              sciences were taught. The first few months of work were just a review
                              for them. Farm girls like me from small-town schools didn't
                              often go to college, much less study sciences. I continued to struggle
                              and began to improve to just an average grade level. The professor of
                              organic chemistry advised me to not take his course, for with my
                              mediocre grades in inorganic chemistry, he said it would be impossible
                              for me to pass organic. But I did well enough in his classes
                              (including an A in lab work) to get a good recommendation from him for
                              medical school.
                         The next course I was worried about was Physics. And I had to take the
                              tough physics course, not "Physics for Poets." I got
                              along pretty well there until I got to electricity. The professor had
                              an evening class for students who needed extra help with the problems.
                              So I, with many others, attended these evening classes religiously.
                              One evening, the white-haired professor said to me, "I
                              understand that you come from a farm. I have a farm in 
                                   Michigan
                              . And I have some pictures of my new tractor. Would you
                              like to see them?"
                         
                         "Oh, sure," I said, just to be polite.
                         We went to his office, where he motioned for me to sit at his desk, and
                              laid out several tractor photographs for me to see. Then he said,
                              handing me some papers, "And here are the questions for
                              tomorrow's test. The test questions will be taken from this
                              list."
                         "Oh, are they available to all of us?"
                         "Well, ah...... no!"
                         "Then I'd better not look at them. But thank you very
                              much just the same!" And I fled. I was extremely worried that
                              now I would flunk the course, for sure. But to his credit, he gave me
                              no more nor less than I deserved for a grade. (I knew I could have had
                              an A!) I was aware of how some professors required girls to earn good
                              grades.
                         I decided to try to earn a B.A. degree, instead of a B.S., which would
                              have been easier to obtain. I had so many prerequisites for med school
                              that I had to take two summer correspondence courses to fit in all the
                              requirements for my major. I needed to prove myself proficient in a
                              language, also. To Professor Wooley's delight, I passed the
                              proficiency in German after earning only 13 credits in German. I
                              majored in Zoology, and was very lucky to have outstanding teachers.
                              Professor Tracey Sonnenborn taught advanced Zoology and Genetics; I
                              loved working with paramecia. He wanted me to go into research in his
                              field, but I had my sights set on medical school.
                         Then the day came to try to get into Professor Hermann
                              Mueller's genetics laboratory course. Dr. Mueller was a Nobel
                              Prize winner; he had been the first to discover that one could induce
                              mutations in the fruit fly (Drosophila) by
                              irradiating them under an x-ray tube.9 Then he had
                              made a road map of the Drosophila's genes. His laboratory
                              space was old and small. There was room for about a dozen students. On
                              the first day of class, the lab was filled by about 50 of us, standing
                              room only.
                         Dr. Mueller was English, a short, rather shy, very polite man. That
                              first day, he turned into a raving tyrant, shouting, "This is
                              a pre-med flunk-out course. I never give any As. I flunk out almost
                              all of my students. Unless you are a well-versed scientist, and unless
                              you are prepared to work very hard, you have no place in my class! But
                              I never give As!"
                         
                              9Hermann Joseph Mueller was awarded the
                                   Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1946 "for the
                                   discovery of the production of mutations by means of X-ray
                                   irradiation." He had become a professor of Zoology at IU
                                   in the previous year.
                                   (http://nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/medicine/
                                   laureates/1946/muller-bio.html).
                         
                         
                         It was amazing. At the second class meeting, there were only about a
                              dozen of us left. I loved the work. Dr. Mueller was a very kind,
                              gifted teacher. He answered every question patiently, and never put us
                              down or made us feel stupid. We irradiated Drosophila, bred them, and
                              with his help, figured out a gene map. I even found some brand-new
                              mutations never discovered before, which was very exciting.
                         But, oh, the itching! The fruit flies had lice (one could see them in
                              the microscope). The lice crawled up the microscope and onto my face.
                              One day, I told Dr. Mueller, "I guess I couldn't be
                              a research geneticist. I itch too much!"
                         "Oh yes, you could. You would put sulphur salve all over
                              yourself!"
                    
                    
                         PREPARING FOR MEDICAL SCHOOL
                         Indiana University is a fine state school. I spent the first three years
                              at the 
                                   Bloomington
                               campus getting my pre-med prerequisites, plus extra work
                              for my major in Zoology and my B.A. requirements, completed. I loved
                              the woodsy campus with its brick walks and its lovely dogwood and
                              redbud trees. I felt very keenly the competition for getting accepted
                              to medical school. At that time, there were thirteen applicants for
                              each place. Those were war years; the campus walks were filled by
                              marching ROTC students. I had to get off into the mud to let the
                              marchers through. And I always had to stand on the buses, because the
                              seats were filled by soldiers. Students came from everywhere to take
                              crash courses in foreign languages. Housing was at a premium.
                         Although I could not afford the rates for room and board at the
                              university, I was required to live in the dorms the freshman year. At
                              first, I was placed in a room in an old house on Forrest Avenue, near
                              the chemistry building. This I shared with two roommates who brought
                              trunks of clothes and towels, with which they filled all the space. It
                              was a good thing that I had only six hand towels and very few clothes,
                              for the space was taken. We had three beds and three desks in the
                              room. All my roommates did was to talk about their boyfriends and cry.
                              They went to bed early and didn't like it that I studied
                              late. I rigged up a line behind my desk, on which I hung a blanket to
                              protect them from my light so they could sleep. At semester break, I
                              asked to be transferred to a double room, where I roomed with Betty
                              McLeod, a Spanish major. She was a lovely girl who had just graduated
                              from a big high school in 
                                   Indianapolis
                              .
                         
                         At the end of the first year, I sought cheaper co-op housing. Now I cut
                              down the cost of the room by cleaning it myself and by furnishing my
                              own bed linens. I lived first at the Sigma Pi House (the fraternity
                              men were in the service), then at South Hall, the empty men's
                              dorm. I ate my meals at the Indiana Memorial Union cafeteria, and at
                              nearby restaurants. My meal cost was one dollar per day. My protein
                              consisted mainly of brains and macaroni and cheese at the union. These
                              items were not popular, so the servers gave me large portions. My
                              roommate was a library science major, Marietta Metcalf, from 
                                   Gary
                              . Her father was a steel worker and she had to economize,
                              too. In our junior year, we moved to a room near the campus in the
                              home of an elderly doctor, Dr. Green, and his wife. There, we were
                              asked to economize on toilet paper, because they were having to buy
                              too much. The rule was not to use more than two sheets at a time. I
                              still feel guilty if I use more! Marietta was a lovely girl; she
                              graduated and left at the end of my junior year.
                         It was during my junior year that I completed my application for medical
                              school. I applied only to IU, for I could not have afforded the
                              tuition of a private or out-of-state school. Finally, the day of my
                              interview arrived. By this time I had heard hair-raising tales of how
                              awful the interviews were. I was told that a large part of the
                              interview would be about my views of the war. That would be a problem,
                              for due to my dislike of anything historical, and to my wish not to
                              get into controversial political issues, I was not going to discuss
                              the war. No way.
                         I was ushered into the interview room, where I was to be interviewed by
                              Dr. Edwin Kime, Chairman of Anatomy, and Dr. James O. Ritchey,
                              Chairman of Medicine. I tried to be calm and composed. "Well,
                              what do you think of the latest war campaign?"
                         "I'm sorry, I know very little about it. I have been
                              busy with my courses and I'm afraid I'm not well
                              versed at all on the war." They asked me a few questions,
                              then Dr. Ritchey inquired, "What books do you like to
                              read?"
                         "The last two books I have read were Great
                                   Expectations, by Dickens, and Tess of the
                                   D'Urbervilles, by Hardy." Then, with Dr.
                              Kime listening, Dr. Ritchey and I discussed what we thought of the
                              character, Tess.
                         "What will you do if you don't go to medical
                              school?"
                         "I don't have any other plans. There is nothing else I
                              want to do."
                         "But what would you do?"
                         "I don't know. I honestly don't
                              know."
                         "Your folks would foot the bill, right?"
                         
                         "No, I will do it myself."
                         "That's impossible. It is very expensive. Tuition will
                              be costly. Books and equipment will be very expensive. You
                              don't realize how expensive medical school is!"
                         "I think I have a good idea. I have studied the cost estimates
                              in the catalog. I have worked three years before I started college and
                              have saved my money. I have paid for my first three years of college,
                              myself. I have saved enough money for the first three years of medical
                              school. By working summers, I'll be able to earn the money I
                              need for the final year. I can do it. I have it all figured
                              out."
                         That's about all I remember of the interview. It was over. I
                              hadn't lost my cool or stuttered and blown it. I was
                              satisfied.
                         Finally, the letter came from the I.U. School of Medicine. I was afraid
                              to open it. The results of the last six years of work hung in the
                              balance. I sat on the sofa in the parlor of Dr. Green's
                              house, and, with shaking fingers, opened the letter. I was
                              accepted!
                    
                    
                         STARTING THE FRESHMAN YEAR
                         That fall, I settled down into a private room in Dr. Green's
                              house and started my first year of medical school in 
                                   Bloomington
                              , the last year that it was taught there. After that, all
                              four years were taught at the Medical Center in 
                                   Indianapolis
                              .10
                         The new class assembled in the amphitheater on the first floor. There
                              was a blackboard across the front of the room. There were 120 of us,
                              fifteen of whom were women. Dr. Kime grabbed a piece of chalk and
                              scrawled across the blackboards in huge printing: CONFORM OR PERISH.
                              One male student got up, went out the door, and never returned.
                              Medical school had begun!
                         "Now boys, you need to choose anatomy partners. There will be
                              four of you at each cadaver."
                         A friend from pre-med and I saw each other. We each said, in unison,
                              "Will you be my partner?" And so it was decided. We
                              teamed up with another twosome and were a good group.
                         This friend and I went back a long way. We had been in many of the
                              pre-med classes together. We had sat beside each other in Dr.
                              Mueller's genetics lab. After he had failed his English
                              proficiency examination several 
                                   10In the 1979-1980 school year, IU
                                        students once again gained the option of taking their first
                                        two years of medical school coursework on the 
                                             Bloomington
                                         campus.
                              
                               times, he was down to his last
                              chance. I knew he would make a fine doctor, so I helped him. I wrote a
                              theme for him and told him to practice writing it until he got the
                              spelling and punctuation exactly as I had it. That time, he passed. He
                              and his wife were very relieved.
                         The first year consisted of Anatomy lectures and lab, Physiology
                              lectures and lab, Histology and lab, and Neuro-anatomy. The amount of
                              material that we had thrown at us was awesome. The girls in the class
                              were completely ignored. The class was addressed as "You
                              men" or "You boys." Dr. Kime told raunchy
                              jokes, most of which I didn't understand. Then everyone would
                              look at us girls to observe our reaction. It's hard to know
                              what to do, when one doesn't understand the joke in the first
                              place. So I watched Dr. Kime's assistant, "Ma
                              Strong," and I did what she did. If she laughed, I laughed.
                              And if she didn't, I didn't. But the whole thing was
                              getting to be too much for some of the girls. We lost eight of the
                              fifteen women that first year. And we lost twenty-two men. It was
                              brutal - one fourth of our original class gone in one year! I became
                              quite anxious about flunking out, and wasted time worrying when I
                              should have been studying.
                         Dr. Paul Harmon, the Physiology professor, didn't like us at
                              all. It was said that he blamed doctors because his son was retarded.
                              But I got along with him OK. One day he asked me a question and I got
                              the answer all wrong. So he told me to look it up. At the next class,
                              before he started his lecture, I held up my hand and said, "I
                              want to say that everything I said yesterday was wrong!"
                         "Well, that's the first time I ever heard a woman
                              admit that she was wrong," he said. We all laughed. I gave
                              the correct explanation of the problem, and Dr. Harmon and I were
                              friends.
                         Anatomy lab wasn't too bad when one got used to the awful
                              phenol odor of the cadavers.11 We all reeked of
                              phenol. Meals lost some of their appeal when one would raise his fork
                              to his mouth and get an overpowering whiff of phenol. There was no
                              washing the odor away! One Saturday morning, I needed to catch up on a
                              dissection, so I went to the anatomy lab alone. There I was, with
                              thirty cadavers in the room. I felt creepy. I had never been able to
                              whistle, but I learned, then and there. The sound gave me some
                              comfort.
                         A couple of weeks before the Christmas break, one of the students at a
                              neighboring anatomy table told me that he was suffering from
                              infectious mononucleosis. A week or so later, I began to cough
                              uncontrollably 
                                   11Phenol was used as part of the liquid
                                        solution for preserving the bodies.
                              
                               and had to leave class. I had
                              infectious mononucleosis with pneumonia! I had contracted the kissing
                              disease without a single kiss! I stayed in the infirmary for several
                              days until it closed for the holidays, and then went home to the farm
                              to bed. I took all my books, but was too sick to study at all.
                              Finally, the vacation was over, and it was time to return to medical
                              school. My temperature was 102 degrees; the nodes in my neck were all
                              swollen up, and my throat was red and raw, except where it was covered
                              by a white membrane. I felt rotten. But I got up and dressed.
                         "Where do you think you're going?" Papa
                              asked.
                         "I'm going to school!"
                         "But you're too sick!"
                         "I know. But if I don't go, that will be the end.
                              They'll never let me back in medical school
                              again."
                         "But you're so sick, you may die!"
                         "True, but I have to try. I'll either make it or die
                              in the attempt."
                         "Then I'll take you." So Papa drove all the
                              way to 
                                   Bloomington
                               on icy roads. South of 
                                   Indianapolis
                              , the fog was so thick that he had to stick his head out
                              the window to see the edge of the road. I lay in the back seat,
                              wrapped in comforters.
                         Finally, late at night, we arrived at my rooming house. "If you
                              like, I'll help you get your things, and I'll take
                              you home," Papa said.
                         I wasn't very well off, for I had missed several examinations
                              during my absence before the vacation. I had to keep up with the work
                              that was pouring in, plus make up the missed exams. I was pretty weak.
                              I could get up the stairs by pulling on the banister. But getting down
                              was a problem, for when I bent my knees to go down a step,
                              they'd shake so that I had to hold the banister to keep from
                              falling.
                         Every day, for four days, the same thing happened. I went to Dr.
                              Kime's second floor office and said, "Dr. Kime, I
                              wish to make arrangements to make up my missed exams."
                         "Get the Hell out of here! There is no place here for
                              panty-waists! Get out!"
                         On the fifth day, I returned and repeated, "Dr. Kime, I want to
                              take my missed exams!"
                         He looked at me. "How do you feel?"
                         "I feel fine!" (I lied.)
                         "Does your neck hurt?" And so saying, he took his
                              forefinger and jabbed roughly at my swollen neck glands. It hurt
                              awfully, but I didn't flinch.
                         
                         "Nah," I lied.
                         "OK, you may take the exams. But you know, it's just
                              amazing how well you're doing. My son had infectious mono and
                              he missed a whole year of school."
                         "That's too bad!" I declared. And I stalked
                              out of his office.
                         Dr. Schuman, at the school infirmary, was giving me liver shots a couple
                              of times a week; they made me quite ill each time, but they were
                              supposed to help me get well. I slept five hours a night. The rest of
                              the time, I spent going to school and studying. But if my work
                              wasn't done, I'd go to bed, anyway, to sleep for
                              five hours.
                         Dr. Kime gave us reams of anatomy questions for which we were
                              responsible. I remember working on one question concerning an injury
                              to one part of the brain. Symptoms arose from that area, but also from
                              a distal area. I finally deduced that the greater superficial petrosal
                              nerve had sustained an injury, but my time was up before I could
                              figure out what happened distally to cause another set of symptoms. I
                              had to get my five hours of sleep.
                         The next morning, Dr. Kime called on one man after another. At least a
                              dozen guys didn't know what had been injured initially. Then
                              he called on me and leered, "And now, Miss Flint, what is the
                              problem?"
                         "I believe that the patient has sustained an injury to the
                              greater superficial petrosal nerve."
                         "That is correct. Now, men, you have let little Miss Flint get
                              ahead of you. How is it that she got the answer and you stupid men did
                              not?" He yelled at the guys for about ten minutes, then
                              turned back to me. "And now, Miss Flint," he leered
                              in his most awful voice, "What went wrong
                              distally?"
                         "I'm sorry, Dr. Kime. I couldn't figure that
                              out."
                         Well, Dr. Kime spent the last half hour raking me over the coals in
                              front of the class. I was the lowest form of low life, an idiot who
                              just memorized stuff and didn't know or understand anything.
                              I sat there fuming. After this diatribe was over, I went to the
                              library to study. I'd look at the books, but I was so angry
                              that I couldn't concentrate. Finally, I slammed the books
                              shut, threw them on a pile, and said to my companions, "That
                              does it. I'm too angry to study. I'm going to go and
                              have it out with Dr. Kime!"
                         "Oh my God! Don't do that! He'll flunk
                              you!"
                         "Well, if I can't study, I'll flunk anyway,
                              so I have nothing to lose, do I?"
                         
                         Dr. Kime answered my knock at his door. "Oh, Miss. Flint, do
                              come in! And please sit down!" He motioned grandly to a
                              chair. I sat on the edge.
                         "Dr. Kime, I think there are a few things that you and I need
                              to get straightened out! I'm sorry that I missed the second
                              half of the question. It was news to me that blood from a hemorrhage
                              could travel so far along the nerve! But you didn't need to
                              castigate me in front of the whole class for thirty
                              minutes!"
                         "Oh, it was nothing personal, Miss Flint."
                         "I took it very personally!"
                         "Oh, no, I was just teaching the fellows. Believe me, it was
                              nothing personal."
                         I said that it was hard not to take it personally, and left. And he
                              never picked on me again. One has to stand up to a bully.
                         Every afternoon, as I walked to my room from school, I sang softly to
                              the tune of "Clementine,"
                         "Dreadful awful, dreadful awful, Dreadful
                              awful Dr. Kime. He'll make a fine cadaver, And
                              he'll be one, in good time!"
                         One day, I got one of his tests back, marked with checks and
                              X's. I looked up the answers to all the questions marked X,
                              thinking they were wrong. They were all correct. So I went to Dr. Kime
                              for an explanation.
                         "Don't you know anything? X means correct and check
                              means wrong!"
                         "That's amazing!" I answered. "All
                              during grade school, junior high school, senior high school, and
                              college, X meant wrong and check meant correct!' Dr. Kime
                              never used that strange method of grading, after that. But he made
                              many of my classmates so upset that they could not learn. He was a
                              very sadistic man. I understand that the administration cracked down
                              on him after our class, and that no class after ours had such a high
                              attrition rate.
                         Meanwhile, my classes in histology and neuro-anatomy, taught by a Dr.
                              Frank Forry, went well for me, for I was not anxious, and could study
                              them properly.12 Finally, the year ended. The
                              names of the class members were posted according to class standing. I
                              approached the bulletin 
                                   12Dr. Frank Forry received his M.D.
                                        from IU School of Medicine in 1923, and was a member of its
                                        faculty from 1924 through 1956.
                              
                               board with fear and trembling, and
                              finally found my name halfway down the list. I had made it. But my
                              grades were just average, and I was ashamed of them. There were thirty
                              names missing at the bottom of the list; those students had flunked
                              out.
                    
                    
                         SOPHOMORE YEAR OF MED SCHOOL
                         At the end of freshman year, I was still not feeling well. I
                              didn't even go to my graduation to pick up my B.A. degree. I
                              just asked that it be mailed to me. I was concerned that I might have
                              trouble with Biochemistry in sophomore year, so I decided to go to
                              summer school and complete Pharmacology. Then during the winter term,
                              I would have more time to concentrate on Biochemistry. About two dozen
                              of us had the same idea. But that would mean that I would have no
                              income that summer. I went to Marion County Hospital, which was
                              located about two blocks from the medical school, and got a job filing
                              records, in return for room and board. I shared a room over the
                              garbage and refuse area with Etervina Figueroa, a classmate. The
                              malodorous refuse and the roar of the garbage trucks and clanking of
                              garbage cans in the wee morning hours became a way of life for us.
                         The Pharmacology course was a delight. I enjoyed learning about all the
                              types of drugs and their actions. The laboratory part of the course I
                              wasn't too fond of, though. I hated giving drugs to the dogs,
                              as I felt sorry for them. But I did get good at making smoked paper
                              for the drums and making recordings of physiological responses.13 By the end of the summer, I felt well again,
                              like my old self.
                         One Friday, after class, I got a chance to earn ten dollars by spending
                              the next day in the Eli Lilly laboratory, being tested with a brand
                              new, synthetic narcotic drug, Demerol. A number of us, after a
                              preliminary breathing test, received an injection of the drug; then
                              about every half-hour, we breathed into a machine to test the amount
                              of resulting 
                                   13The method of recording physiological
                                        records by using smoked drums has become antiquated. If one
                                        wished to track the effect of a drug on a dog's
                                        respiratory function, for example, he would expose a piece
                                        of paper to black smoke, then wrap it around a revolving
                                        drum against which a stylus connected to the dog's
                                        chest was affixed. As the dog breathed and the drum rotated,
                                        a wavy line scratched in the smoked paper by the stylus
                                        indicated any changes in the depth and rate of breathing
                                        caused by various drugs and manipulations. Similarly, using
                                        cannulas, results of heart rate and blood pressure
                                        physiology changes could also be recorded.
                              
                               respiratory depression. We all
                              felt fine and had fun lounging about and visiting. At the end of the
                              afternoon, I collected my ten dollars and headed for my room over the
                              garbage heap. It was then that the retching and vomiting began. It
                              went on for about thirty-six hours. Most of us in the study had the
                              same experience, which we all reported.
                         Later, I was interested to study the Demerol drug insert and to note
                              under "side effects" a mention of
                              "occasional minimal nausea and vomiting." This was a
                              meaningful experience for me, for it taught me to take what drug
                              companies had to say with a grain of salt. And I decided that my days
                              of being a human guinea pig were over, forever. I passed up all
                              lucrative offers for drug testing after that.
                         Clinical studies were very easy for me. I would start to read about a
                              disease, and suddenly there would come to mind a patient I had
                              observed in 
                                   LaGrange
                              , who had suffered from the malady. One day, the Medicine
                              instructor asked me to demonstrate for the class how a patient
                              suffering from Parkinsonism looks and walks. I easily mimicked the
                              expressionless face with mouth agape, the posture with the shoulders
                              hunched, the torso bent forward, the arms held with elbows bent, the
                              pill rolling tremor, and the short steps with shuffling gait. Now
                              medical school was fun and exciting. I was working very hard, but I
                              was no longer afraid of flunking, and I could learn.
                    
                    
                         LAB AND CLINICAL WORK
                         Pathology was particularly interesting to me. It seemed to pull together
                              everything we knew about a disease. One could look at a specimen and
                              figure out what symptoms would have been suffered. I got a job for one
                              dollar per hour in my senior year, grading pathology lab quiz papers.
                              I was encouraged to be a pathologist, but I wanted to deal with live
                              people, rather than with tissues and corpses.
                         I enjoyed Parasitology and liked identifying the parasites and their ova
                              under the microscope. The professor knew that I was doing well in his
                              course. One day, we had a lab quiz in which about two dozen
                              microscopes were set up, each to show a slide containing a different
                              parasite. Each student had a piece of paper, on which to write the
                              answer for each slide. When the test was completed, the professor saw
                              on the table beside the microscopes clear indentations of the written
                              answers. He went berserk, ranting and raving that we had cheated. I
                              found my own writing very clearly visible, next to one microscope. He
                              knew I did not need to cheat.
                         
                         "Look, Doctor, here is my writing," I pointed out.
                              "Don't you see, the impression has come through the
                              paper onto the newly waxed linoleum table top? I did not cheat, and
                              neither did anyone else." Thank God, he accepted my
                              explanation and settled down. Cheaters were expelled.
                         While I was assigned to Pediatrics, there was a polio epidemic. I had
                              already seen cases of polio in 
                                   LaGrange
                              . And when I was in fifth grade, a boy a year ahead of me
                              had polio. After he was over the acute phase, he was brought to school
                              in a wheelchair. He had a decided limp ever after. Now, dozens of
                              children of all ages with high fevers and acute illnesses were being
                              admitted. We were performing spinal taps on them all. In the middle of
                              the night, I ran many times through the dark, abandoned tunnels from
                              Riley Children's Hospital to the lab in Long Hospital, with
                              samples of spinal fluid and blood to be analyzed. They were very scary
                              trips, but they had to be made. I was nervous, because not too long
                              before, a nurse had been murdered at the Medical Center. I felt very
                              vulnerable, all alone in the tunnels. But I felt safer there than
                              outside.
                         Even worse was having to talk to the terrified parents and to give them
                              the diagnosis, which all too often proved fatal. Today, now that we
                              have polio vaccine and the disease is almost eradicated, it would be
                              difficult for a medical student to imagine the dread, terror, and
                              devastation caused by polio.
                         On Saturday mornings for months, we had classes at the State Hospital
                              for the Criminally Insane. We saw thousands of slides of brain
                              pathology shown in conjunction with slides of patients and their case
                              histories. Those were the days before the psychotropic drugs that we
                              have now. I can remember vividly one case history of a woman who had
                              become psychotic and brutally murdered a child. For the next thirty
                              years, she had been a model patient in the hospital, so it was decided
                              to release her. A week after her release, she murdered another child
                              with an ax. The finale of the course was a visit to the wards, where
                              we saw the patients sitting around in their hopeless, mindless states.
                              Very depressing!
                         Obstetrics was an interesting rotation, particularly in the light of my
                              previous experiences in 
                                   LaGrange
                              . One night, I was on call with an intern who considered
                              all medical students to be dirt under his feet. There was a patient in
                              labor who was making rapid progress. I asked the nurse to call him,
                              but he refused to come, thinking that the medical student
                              didn't know anything, and that he knew everything. The nurse
                              and I got her to the delivery room and I sent another message:
                              "Doctor, are  you coming?
                              If not, shall I deliver the baby?" This time, he came,
                              arriving in the nick of time.
                    
                    
                         SENIOR OUTDOOR OB
                         In the Senior year, we had a rotation on "Outdoor OB"
                              at City Hospital. Healthy multiparas who had been cared for in the
                              prenatal clinic were delivered at home by medical students, in teams
                              of two. The hospital furnished a car. We took turns delivering the
                              baby and caring for the newborn. Most of the patients lived in the
                              city's poorest neighborhoods.
                         Our first case was very traumatic. Our knock at the door was answered by
                              a nude man, who motioned for us to go up the stairs. With some
                              trepidation, we went, to find a lady in advanced labor. She had not
                              gone to the prenatal clinic, so we took a good history and gave her a
                              complete examination. She seemed healthy.
                         "How many children have you had?"
                         "Two."
                         "Were they all right?"
                         "Yes."
                         "Tell us about your labors and deliveries."
                         "No problem, short labors, normal deliveries."
                         "How long have you been in labor now?"
                         "Four hours."
                         "Has the water broken?"
                         "No."
                         On and on. All of our questions were answered in this manner. There had
                              never been any problem with anything, ever. Labor progressed very
                              slowly. We couldn't hear fetal heart tones, but thought the
                              problem was due to a combination of our old fetus-scope and our own
                              inexperience using it.14
                         Finally, with much difficulty, a perfectly dry baby was delivered.
                              Dead!
                         Evidently, the membranes had ruptured long ago and there was not a drop
                              of amniotic fluid to serve as lubrication. The baby was perfectly
                                   
                                   14A fetus-scope is a stethoscope
                                        adapted for use in listening to heart sounds of an unborn
                                        infant through the mother's abdominal wall.
                              
                               formed, but dead. We tried
                              everything we could, but could not resuscitate it. I baptized the
                              baby, at the request of the parents.
                         After this dreadful experience, the parents gave us the real history.
                              Their other pregnancies and deliveries had ended in the same tragic
                              manner. I never could figure out why they would not have sought
                              prenatal care. Had they given us a true history, we would have taken
                              her to the hospital, but in that case, it is doubtful that the outcome
                              would have been changed.
                         One night, a lady called us after suffering a miscarriage. The tiny
                              fetus, of about four months gestation, had been born dead. We cared
                              for the mother, then told her and her husband to call the undertaker
                              for the baby.
                         "Oh no, we can't do that!"
                         "Why not?"
                         "We have no money. Undertakers are very expensive. We simply
                              cannot afford one."
                         We did not know what to do. Finally, I used my common sense and told
                              them to place the fetus in a little wooden box, to dig a hole at least
                              two feet deep in the back yard, and bury it. That's what they
                              did. Right or wrong, it seemed to be the best thing to do.
                         One night, my partner was the very charismatic class president. We were
                              called to a very well-kept, clean house of a young couple who were
                              about to have their third child. He was an interior decorator, out of
                              work. Her labor was progressing rapidly. I knew that she would deliver
                              within about two hours. But my partner wanted to leave.
                         "Come on, let's get out of here," he
                              insisted.
                         "We'd better stay. She'll deliver
                              soon."
                         "No, I'm not going to hang around here."
                         "I do not think we can get back in time if we leave. If you
                              want to leave, I cannot stop you, but I will stay."
                         Of course, he couldn't very well leave me behind, so he had to
                              stay. The baby was born soon after and the family thought he was
                              wonderful. So they gave him the honor of signing the family bible. It
                              had been my turn to care for the baby; they asked me to sign the
                              bible, as an after thought.
                         One night, my partner delivered a baby and the grateful family wanted to
                              pay him $1. It was a rule that we were not to accept any money. But he
                              took it gladly, bragged that it was the first dollar that he had
                              earned as a doctor, and that he was going to frame it. I was ashamed
                              for him.
                         
                         Outdoor OB was a rough rotation. At one point, I worked seventy-two
                              hours without sleep. Late one night, we had an emergency call. We went
                              deep into the ghetto. There were guides posted along the last several
                              blocks of the trip, motioning us on: "Hurry, hurry, go that
                              way!"
                         Finally, we entered the front door and were in the living room of the
                              tiny house. In the corner was an emaciated-appearing woman, sitting in
                              the messy overstuffed armchair in which she had given birth to a tiny,
                              premature baby, weighing less than four pounds.
                         It was my turn to care for the baby. It was mid-January; we had to get
                              the baby into the premature nursery quickly. I knew that my biggest
                              challenge at the moment was to avoid a fall in the baby's
                              body temperature. As my partner cut the cord, I took the baby and
                              immediately wrapped her in a small shawl. But I needed a very warm
                              blanket and a source of heat.
                         I headed toward the back of the house and the kitchen, through a small
                              room filled with beds, in which men were sleeping. I threaded through
                              them in a small aisle about six inches wide. In the kitchen, I asked,
                              "Is there hot water? I need hot water and a water bottle for
                              the baby."
                         "We don't have a hot water bottle. But we'll
                              find one in the neighborhood."
                         "Please hurry. I also need a warm blanket,
                              please."
                         "We don't have one. Will this bed spread
                              do?"
                         "Thank you." Then, cuddling the infant, I asked my
                              partner, "Are you almost finished? I'm anxious to
                              get the baby to the hospital."
                         "I have to get the birth certificate information
                              first." Then he asked the mother some questions, finally
                              getting to the information about the father. "What is the
                              father's name, please?"
                         Silence. A long silence.
                         Finally, a young woman in the room spoke up and said, "Mama, if
                              you won't give the name, I will!"
                         Silence.
                         Then the daughter gave us a name and an age. Meanwhile, my scouts
                              returned with a hot water bottle. I was worried as much about burning
                              the baby with it as I was of allowing her to become hypothermic. I
                              carefully incorporated the hot water bottle and the baby into the
                              folds of the old, tattered bed spread, and we sped in the cold night
                              toward City Hospital.
                         On arrival, I walked so fast through the deserted corridors that I was
                              almost running, toward the nursery. Then, "Halt!" It
                              was the security guard. "You are kidnapping that
                              baby!"
                         
                         "Sir, I am a medical student. This premature baby must get to
                              the nursery at once. Let me go!" Moments later, the baby was
                              in a warm incubator. I was vastly relieved that her temperature was
                              normal! The baby thrived, and was eventually discharged to her
                              mother's care in good condition.
                         Meanwhile, my partner told me that caring for the mother had been the
                              worst experience of his life, for she was crawling with lice in her
                              pubic hair.
                         The following day, we made our first post-partum visit. We knocked on
                              the front door and opened it a crack. "Psss-t!
                              Psss-t!" The mother, who was lying on the sofa, beckoned to
                              us. "Quick, before anyone comes! The name that my daughter
                              gave you for the birth certificate is wrong! The name was John
                              S!"
                         "And his age?"
                         "Sixteen."
                         "His occupation?"
                         "He's an usher at the theatre on the
                              corner."
                         "Why didn't you have any prenatal care?"
                         "I didn't know I was pregnant. I knew my belly was
                              getting big, but I thought I had cancer!"
                         We hurried back to the hospital to retrieve the incorrect birth
                              certificate and fill out another, stating the sixteen-year-old
                              father's name. We had been worried that we would fail to find
                              the incorrect certificate before it was sent in to the Bureau of Vital
                              Statistics, but it was no problem.
                         On another emergency call, we came to the home of a family whose house
                              was shabby, but tidy and clean. It was my turn to deliver the baby.
                              The mother was in her thirties and was in hard labor. She had had no
                              prenatal care. "Why didn't you go to the free
                              prenatal clinic?"
                         "I had no money for carfare!"
                         I lifted the bed covers, and there it was! A transverse lie! (The only
                              one I've ever seen.) This was confirmed by palpating, on
                              rectal examination, a baby's hand and foot, both prolapsed
                              into the vagina.
                         "We must get you to the hospital at once! The baby is stuck
                              cross-wise in your pelvis. It cannot be born this way. The baby will
                              have to be turned so that it can be born, either head-first, or
                              feet-first! There is no time to lose!"
                         We called for an ambulance, which arrived a few minutes later. By the
                              time we got to the hospital, the baby had already been turned and
                              delivered as a breech presentation. Fortunately, mother and baby were
                                    all right. Transverse lies,
                              like compound presentations, are extremely rare occurrences. I had
                              been very lucky that my two unusual patients and their babies were all
                              right.
                         One night, when it was my partner's turn to perform the
                              delivery, we went to the home of a laboring woman, in which about a
                              half-dozen neighbor women were present. We set everything up for the
                              delivery, placing the mother cross-wise of the bed, draping newspapers
                              underneath her pelvis and at the side of the bed, and putting each
                              foot on a chair by the bedside. Behind my partner, who knelt on the
                              floor beside the bed, was a whole row of women with ring-side seats!
                              We didn't want all those onlookers there, but felt that we
                              must conform to the local customs, and did not ask them to leave.
                         The house was cold. The kitchen door had a three-or-four-inch-wide crack
                              beneath it, through which the icy winds were blowing. It would have
                              been so simple to nail a board on the door to make it longer. But poor
                              people often don't seem to be able to help themselves.
                         I needed a warm place for the baby, so I asked for a table to be put
                              behind the heating stove in the living area. The table was so wobbly
                              that I feared its imminent collapse, but I braced it against the wall
                              and pushed against it to steady it, as I cared for the baby. However,
                              I didn't like being close to the wall, for there was a
                              regular parade of some sort of big bugs skittering up and down.
                              Fortunately, I kept them away from the newborn.
                         It is a shame that people who are least prepared have the most
                              babies!
                    
                    
                         SENIOR CLINICS AND EXAMS
                         Time went by rapidly in the senior year. We were having lectures and
                              spending a great deal of time in clinics. Many nights, we were on
                              call. One day, I was on the neurosurgery service following a brain
                              surgeon around the wards. He diagnosed a brain tumor and scheduled
                              surgery for its removal. I was going to see delicate brain surgery!
                              The operating room was hushed, as the surgeon incised the scalp and
                              removed a section of calvarium from above the left frontal area. I
                              held my breath, waiting for the painstaking dissection of brain tissue
                              that I expected to follow.
                         Much to my astonishment, the surgeon thrust his forefinger into the
                              brain, dug around with his finger, and after a short interval of time,
                              "delivered" a brain tumor.
                         
                         "It's a meningioma!" he shouted triumphantly,
                              holding up a tumor about the size of a tangerine, for all to see. So
                              much for delicate brain surgery!
                         I was very impressed with his post-operative care of that patient,
                              however. He paid attention to every detail of the man's blood
                              pressure fluctuations, and to every neurological sign. The patient had
                              a full recovery, for his tumor was benign. The surgeon had pinpointed
                              its location exactly and removed it quickly - quite a feat, despite
                              his surprising method of removal. I was also impressed by his
                              painstaking and compassionate explanations to the patient's
                              family, as he appraised them of the good outlook, after the dangerous
                              hurdle of his immediate post-operative period was surmounted.
                         In medicine clinics, I saw patients with diseases of every organ system.
                              One family I shall never forget. The parents, who were in their 30s,
                              had four young children, the eldest a girl of about 13 years. The
                              mother was worried, for her husband was becoming unable to function
                              properly at work. At home, he acted strangely, had uncontrolled jerks
                              of his arms and head, and had made some sexual overtures to his
                              pubescent daughter. According to the history, her husband's
                              father and grandfather had started to act strangely at about the same
                              age; both had "lost their minds," jerked so much
                              that they could not function, and died young. On examination of the
                              patient, the wife's observations were verified. The husband
                              had Huntington's Chorea, a progressive disease for which
                              there was no hope of cure. The gene for this condition is
                              dominant.
                         "And what about my children?" she asked.
                              "Will they get it?"
                         "Each child has a fifty percent chance of getting the disease.
                              According to the law of averages, one would expect two of your
                              children to get it. But it is possible that none of them will get it,
                              or that all four will get it."
                         The mother was devastated. My heart went out to her. "What
                              about them having children? How will they know whether or not
                              they'll be OK?"
                         "They won't! Not until they're past
                              child-bearing age." I've often wondered how that
                              family fared. They were my most tragic case in clinics. We just
                              couldn't be of any real help then. Today, thanks to research,
                              we know much more.
                         We could choose a special elective, so I chose Anesthesiology. It was
                              unfortunate that I had no contact with the chief, Dr. Virgil
                              Stoelting, for he might have been able to help me. I worked with
                              residents, and  was given a great
                              deal of responsibility.15 One day, I asked them
                              about the woman whom I had been accused of killing by reaching under
                              her head after spinal anesthetic. "Tell me, could raising her
                              head have killed her?"
                         "We don't know." Then they said something
                              about hyperbaric and hypobaric and said that there was no way of
                              knowing. It was an unsatisfactory discussion, altogether.
                         The end of senior year was coming. There were examinations galore,
                              including the one for state licensure. But the most important one, as
                              far as I was concerned, was the medicine exam. It would cover the
                              entire enormous textbook of medicine. My classmates went on vacation
                              and saw movies, declaring, "It's impossible to study
                              for that test!"
                         I wondered what type of test I'd give if I were the examiner.
                              We had about six lecturers during the year. I decided that each should
                              be allowed to ask two or three questions. Then I went through my notes
                              and looked for asterisks. Whenever I had felt that a lecturer was
                              trying especially to get a point across, I'd put an asterisk
                              in the margin of my notes.
                         I then formulated questions including all these points. There would
                              probably be ten to twelve essay questions. I wrote about fifteen
                              questions, enabling me to include all the asterisk subjects. Then I
                              studied and tested myself until I was able to answer all my questions
                              thoroughly and automatically, without wasting time thinking. The day
                              of the big test arrived. I took a big breath and opened it. There they
                              were, practically word for word, eight of my questions. The other two
                              that I hadn't anticipated were quite easy. Being a good
                              student takes a lot of hard work!
                    
                    
                         THE INTERNSHIP DECISION
                         A big decision was coming up as to where I would intern. I had been
                              required to make my four applications before my rotation through City
                              Hospital. I had included Cincinnati General Hospital, but I now knew I
                              didn't want to go to a city hospital, but rather to a
                              teaching hospital. I was accepted there, and turned them down.
                         Dean John Dean Van Nuys told us that if we weren't satisfied
                              with our match, not to worry, for there were always plenty of
                              excellent internships 
                                   15Dr. Virgil Stoelting received his
                                        M.D. in 1936. He was a member of the IU faculty from
                                        1947-1977.
                              
                              
                              
                                   Medical school graduation, 1950. "I had
                                        done it. I had reached my goal of being a doctor. But little
                                        did I realize that my medical education had just
                                        begun." Courtesy of the author
                               left over, there being more internship slots than doctors to
                              fill them.16
                         I applied to the University of Michigan in Obstetrics and was turned
                              down. No woman had ever been accepted there in that field. I applied
                              to Henry Ford Hospital in 
                                   Detroit
                              , but now I wanted a teaching hospital. I was accepted at
                              Indiana University, but I turned them down, thinking that I needed to
                              venture forth from my comfortable school and surroundings, and widen
                              my vistas.
                         
                              16John Dean Van Nuys was the first full-time
                                   Dean of the IU School of Medicine, and held that position from
                                   1946 to 1964.
                         
                         
                         Now I was the only member of the class without an internship. At that
                              time, the best internships paid no stipend. I had about 700 dollars
                              left. I could afford a good internship. It turned out that there was
                              an opening at the hospitals of the University of Pennsylvania in 
                                   Philadelphia
                              . I.S. Ravdin, Chief of Surgery there, phoned Herbert
                              Gaskill, Chief of Psychiatry, who had come to IU from Penn, and asked
                              whether there was an IU graduate available. Dr. Gaskill interviewed
                              me, after which I made application to Penn and was accepted. This
                              internship was one of the finest in the country, though it paid no
                              salary. I was extremely lucky, but also apprehensive. Could I measure
                              up in the East?
                         Toward the end of the senior year, our grades were tallied and I was
                              elected to Alpha Omega Alpha, the medical school honorary society. I
                              felt very pleased to make it, particularly in light of my poor
                              beginning. I had done it: I had reached my goal of being a doctor. But
                              little did I realize that my medical education had just begun.
                    
               

               

               
                    "The Most Wonderful Thing I Have Ever Seen" 
                              Indiana's
                          Contribution to Petrified Man Hoaxes
                    CARL RUNYON AND RANDY K. MILLS
                    A petrified human body has never been scientifically documented.1 However, despite the lack of evidence, a number of
                         so-called petrified human bodies were discovered in 
                              America
                          in the period from 1850 to 1935, including one in 
                              Evansville
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , in 1902. All of these discoveries were hoaxes - perpetrated
                         by profit seekers, perpetuated by pseudosciences, but believed by a curious
                         public.
                    The 
                              Evansville
                          discovery coincided with the 
                              United States
                          government's ambitious program to improve national
                         transport by dredging the Ohio
                              River, and building locks, dams, and dikes along it. One of
                         the local entrepreneurs who took advantage of the opportunities that came
                         with such projects was John G. Eigenman. Born in 
                              Germany
                          in 1837, 
                              Carl Runyon is an associate professor of English at Owensboro
                                   Community and Technical College, 
                                        Kentucky
                                   . Randy Mills is a professor of the social sciences
                                   at Oakland City University, 
                                        Indiana
                                   .
                              1Petrification is the replacement of
                                   once-living tissue by secondary minerals, which leads to an
                                   increase in hardness and weight, as in the case of fossils.
                                   Mummification is the preservation of once-living creatures
                                   through embalming or through a natural process whereby a
                                   once-living creature comes to rest in a bog, in a very arid
                                   environment, or is frozen (as with the famous "ice
                                   man"). In many cases, a mummified body was either
                                   incorrectly thought or simply said to have been petrified.
                              INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (December 2008) C 2008,
                                   Trustees of Indiana University
                         
                         
                         
                              John Eigenman in the 1860s. By 1902, the aging
                                   businessman and war hero faced a gloomy future, unless he could
                                   come up with a strategy that might bring him a large sum of
                                   money. S. E Horrall History of the Forty-Second
                                        Indiana Volunteer Infantry, 1892
                          Eigenman had come to 
                              America
                          in 1857, finally settling in the Ohio River town of 
                              Rockport
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         . His service in the Civil War earned him the title of Captain
                         and a reputation for grit and resourcefulness.2 After
                         the war, he became a respected contractor ("builder of public
                         buildings") and supervised the dredging of gravel bars in the
                              Ohio
                         River.
                    By 1902, the river had "receded down to its rock, sand, and gravel
                         bottom; . . . [and] new bars of gravel [were] rapidly appearing"
                         at "a number of new, troublesome places between 
                              Louisville
                          and 
                              Evansville
                         ."3 In September, Eigenman,
                         contracted that fall to dredge the 
                              Evansville
                          waterfront, ordered his crew to unload a barge of sand onto
                         the river bank at the front of Pine Street. While the laborers struggled to
                         unload the barge, Eigenman later recalled that he noticed something that
                         looked like a body lying in the murky water, and immediately sent two of
                         his 
                              2S. F. Horrall, History of the
                                        Forty-Second Indiana (n.p., 1892), 144; Dale Weekly Reporter, May 3, 1907.
                              3"River News," Rockport Journal, September 19, 1902.
                         
                          men to drag the object onto the bank
                         of the river. The workers, according to local press accounts, discovered
                         the body of a small man, seemingly turned to stone. Under
                         Eigenman's orders, they hastily stored the grisly find in a nearby
                         building until Eigenman could figure out what to do with it.4
                    Such an astounding find could not be kept under wraps for long; a large crowd
                         of the curious quickly gathered to see what one local paper labeled the
                         "ghastly relic." Nevertheless, Captain Eigenman ordered
                         the discovery stored in a locked shed so that his men could return to work.
                         A reporter for the Evansville Daily Journal arrived in
                         time to view the object before the doors were slammed and locked. He filed
                         a news story describing the figure as "five and a half feet in
                         height with a powerful chest" and with clearly distinguishable
                         facial features. On the figure's left hand, he wrote, onlookers
                         could see not only a ring, but fingernails and even "every wrinkle
                         on the digits."5
                    An unfortunate reporter for the rival city newspaper, the Evansville Courier, did not arrive before Eigenman hid the
                         surprising discovery from public view. But Eigenman did allow him to
                         accompany a small group of doctors and other "men of
                         science" as they made a cursory examination of the bizarre figure
                         that evening. By that time, Eigenman had moved the object to the vault of a
                         building at the corner of Second and Main Streets. The reporter's
                         description of his sojourn into that dark and damp room appeared the next
                         day under the evocative title "How 'Petrified
                         Man' Looked by Candlelight: Description of the Image as It
                         Appeared to a Layman": "As the vault door swung back and
                         the light of the candle carried by the members of the party fell on the
                         object lying on the floor, it looked for all the world like it might be a
                         man . . . such a life-like expression about the features that a person
                         might almost imagine this inanimate object, this stone, might be endowed
                         with life."6
                    Many people - including some local so-called "scientific
                         men" - did imagine that the stone figure was a genuinely petrified
                         human body. One in the party of those who had viewed the object on the
                         night of its discovery observed that "the regularity of the bones
                         about the neck and shoulders convince me that the body is petrified. There
                         can be no doubt 
                              4"Finding a Petrified
                                   Body," ibid., October 3, 1902.
                              5"Petrified Body of Man Is
                                   Found," Evansville Daily Journal,
                                   October 1, 1902.
                              6"Petrified Body of Man Found That
                                   of Son of Founder," Evansville
                                   Courier, October 1, 1902.
                         
                         
                         
                              Dredging the banks of the Ohio River, ca. 1900. Dredging
                                   operations occasionally yielded more than just the customary
                                   rock, sand, and gravel. Courtesy of the Special Collections
                                   Department of Willard Library, 
                                        Evansville
                                   , 
                                        Indiana
                                   
                          about that fact." Another openly expressed his desire to
                         drill into one of the legs to ascertain whether or not a cavity lay below
                         the surface where the bone should be, saying, "this would prove
                         conclusively that the petrification was genuine." A local doctor
                         declared that several details about the object convinced him it was
                         "not a fake so far as being petrified is concerned."7
                    Some 
                              Evansville
                          citizens were not as certain of the object's
                         authenticity, a fact brought to light by one reporter for the Evansville Courier. The writer claimed that the
                         "scientific men" were still unsure of whether the object
                         was "the remains of a human being or an artificially prepared
                         specimen," adding that while "personally they all believe
                         the image to be a genuine specimen of petrification, scientifically they
                         are in doubt."8
                    But most citizens wished to believe, and were encouraged to do so by the
                         retelling of past reports of petrified bodies. On October 2, 1902 - a month
                         after Eigenman's find - the Evansville Courier
                         published a letter 
                              7"Petrified Body of Man Is
                                   Found," Evansville Daily Journal,
                                   October 1, 1902.
                              8"The Petrified Man," Evansville Courier, October 1, 1902.
                         
                          from a reader who recalled that as a
                         small child she had heard her parents discuss the case of a body that had
                         petrified after being buried for twelve years: "When the workmen
                         reached the body which they were disinterring, they found it to be too
                         heavy to move, and after securing assistance in taking the body from the
                         grave it was found to be in a perfect state of petrification."9
                    Because Eigenman's discovery had this historical precedence and
                         "scientific" support, a wave of petrified man fever swept
                         across 
                              Evansville
                          and the rest of the state. On October 3, 
                              Indiana
                          Governor Winfield Durban, accompanied by his staff and several
                         friends, journeyed south from 
                              Indianapolis
                          to view the astonishing specimen. The governor was not content
                         merely to view the body; the press reported that he critically examined
                         every part of it. Afterward, Governor Durbin, "a personal friend
                         of Capt. Eigenman," announced: "There is no doubt but
                         that that specimen is the genuine petrified body of a man. It is the most
                         wonderful thing I have ever seen, and I am greatly interested in
                         it." Upon seeing the specimen for themselves, some of the women
                         who had accompanied the governor to 
                              Evansville
                          were reported to have given "little shudders, little
                         screams, and little sighs."10
                    The governor's observations further helped a credulous public to
                         accept the object. With that acceptance, the public's imaginative
                         musings about how the man came to be greatly increased. At first glance it
                         had appeared that the body was that of a drowning victim, but closer
                         examination revealed "evidence of a foul murder."
                         Observers noticed the unnatural positioning of the arms, rope marks on the
                         upper arms and lower legs, the noticeable lack of bloating (leading many to
                         assume that the man had been dead before the body was placed in the river),
                         and a round hole in the chest (suggesting a bullet wound).11
                    Connecting the stone object to murderous events ultimately prompted several
                         people to suggest a possible identity for the petrified man. Telegraph
                         messages and letters began to pour into 
                              Evansville
                          from around the country. They typically requested that
                         Eigenman provide more details about the body, and "in almost every
                         case," as the Evansville Courier reported,
                         "the theory is advanced that the image is probably the 
                              9"Petrified after Being Buried
                                   Twelve Years," ibid., October 2, 1902.
                              10"Governor and Party View the
                                   Wonderful Stone Man," ibid., October 3, 1902.
                              11"Doctors Open Head of Stone
                                   Man," ibid., October 4, 1902.
                         
                          remains of some relative of the
                         inquirer who had mysteriously disappeared."12
                    The Evansville Courier itself advanced the notion that the
                         petrified body was that of Dee (DeWitt) Evans, son of 
                              Evansville
                          founder General Robert M. Evans. The paper described an 1867
                         boating accident that had claimed the life of the younger Evans, along with
                         those of John App and two other men. Their skiff had overturned in the
                              Ohio during a
                         freak storm; searchers recovered only young App's body.
                    On the morning of the Evans claim, the Evansville Daily
                              Journal offered a competing claim: the petrified man was likely
                         the "body of Bill LaRue, long lost." The article
                         explained that several people who had seen the stone man thought it closely
                         resembled LaRue, who had worked as a watchman on small tugs in the
                         city's port and who had disappeared about nine years earlier.13 Not to be trumped by the Daily
                              Journal, the next day the Courier ran a long
                         story about an impoverished widow who thought the recently discovered
                         petrified man was her missing spouse. "That is my
                         husband," she informed the newspaper; "[T]here is not the
                         slightest doubt about it." Another observer thought "it
                         bore a remarkable resemblance to William Stockton, one of the men who were
                         drowned many years ago at the same time the son of General Evans lost his
                              life."14 Money allegedly missing from a
                         bank account played a significant part in another man's claim that
                         the petrified man was William Patterson, who had accumulated a great deal
                         of money, deposited it in the Vine Grove bank, and then disappeared. After
                         Patterson's disappearance, his brother discovered the bank account
                         was depleted and suspected foul play. From what he had read in the paper,
                         the brother was convinced that "the description given . . . fits
                         Mr. Patterson" and that a "ring he wore and every other
                         mark as described in the dispatches correspond."15
                    Perhaps the most intriguing attempt to identify the stone man came in the
                         form of an anonymous confession to murder. On October 4, 1902, the Evansville Courier printed a rambling, unsigned letter.
                         The 
                              12"Finding of Image Recalls
                                   Tragedies," ibid., October 5, 1902.
                              13"Petrified Body of Man Is Found:
                                   Gravel Dredge Turns Up a Remarkable Find, Supposed to Be the Body
                                   of Bill LaRue, Long Missing," Evansville
                                        Daily Journal, October 1, 1902.
                              14"Woman Claims Petrified Man Is
                                   the Body of Her Husband," Evansville
                                        Courier, October 2, 1902.
                              15"Finding of Image Recalls
                                   Tragedies," ibid., October 5, 1902.
                         
                         
                         
                              
                                        Evansville
                                   , ca. 1900. In spite of their city's
                                   increasing modernization, many 
                                        Evansville
                                    residents were taken in by the petrified man
                                   hoax. Courtesy of the Special Collections Department of
                                   Willard Library, 
                                        Evansville
                                   , 
                                        Indiana
                                   .
                          author claimed that he had watched his brother-in-law kill a
                         western Kentuckian who had been stealing property during the Civil War
                         under the guise of being a confederate partisan fighter. When the letter
                         writer first heard about the discovery of the petrified man, he came to 
                              Evansville
                          to see the body first-hand. He was convinced that it was the
                         body of the man he had seen killed many years before. The writer expressed
                         some surprise that the body was not discovered until forty years later, and
                         he freely admitted that he did not know how it had come to be found near 
                              Evansville
                         , but he was certain the specimen was the right body.16 Having lived for forty years with the knowledge of
                         having been party to a murder, the anonymous writer suddenly discovered a
                         way to see his guilt "buried decent" along with the
                         petrified man. He was absolutely convinced the stone object was the man he
                         had seen killed, no matter how much he had to strain fact and belief to do
                         so. In much the same way, the woman who claimed the stone image as her
                         "lost" 
                              16"Claims Stone Image is Body of
                                   Man Murdered by Brother-In-Law," ibid., October 4,
                                   1902.
                         
                          husband ended several years of living
                         with anger and shame at the possibility that he had simply left her.
                         However misguided, such personal responses are to a degree understandable.
                         But the question of why so many citizens of 
                              Evansville
                         , and of the region in general, readily accepted the object as
                         a petrified human body still remains.
                    The people of 
                              Evansville
                          were cautioned against their enthusiastic response to the
                         "great discovery," and were provided with evidence
                         challenging its authenticity. The Evansville Courier
                         noted after the initial examination of the object that the left leg was
                         "one-and-a-half inches longer than the right" and that
                         the left arm was also larger than the right one. The same paper also
                         alluded to "The Petrified Cardiff Giant" and other
                         similar petrified man frauds that had been brought to light after just
                         "a few minutes of scientific observation and common sense
                              discourse."17 Yet many ignored the
                         reminder of how easily and completely the public could be misled.
                    Nevertheless, some doubt about the object did begin to emerge. Police Chief
                         Fred Heuke told the Evansville Courier that he thought
                         the specimen was "a fake" and said so in response to the
                         several inquiries he had received.18 The Courier, a Democratic newspaper, also printed the observation
                         that the "petrified man" was in reality the body of
                         "a petrified republican office holder" found in the
                         basement of the courthouse.19
                    John Eigenman's behavior immediately after the discovery suggested
                         that - whether he accepted or rejected the object's authenticity -
                         he saw its value as an entertainment commodity. After locking the body in a
                         shed, he told a reporter that he was considering exhibiting it in 
                              Evansville
                         .20 An 
                              Owensboro
                         , 
                              Kentucky
                         , paper also noted that Eigenman had been "made
                         several handsome offers for the peculiar phenomena."21 The morning after the discovery, Eigenman did put the body on
                         public display at the corner of Main and Second Streets in 
                              Evansville
                         , as advertised in the Courier.22 But not all went well with the production. The 
                              17"Man Drowned in June Answers
                                   Description of Stone Man," ibid., October 3, 1902; and
                                   "The Petrified Cardiff Giant," ibid., October
                                   1, 1902.
                              18"Chief Heuke
                                   Pessimistic," ibid., October 4, 1902.
                              19"An Inquest," ibid.,
                                   October 2, 1902.
                              20"Petrified Body of Man is
                                   Found," Evansville Daily Journal,
                                   October 2, 1902.
                              21Ibid.
                              22Evansville Courier,
                                   October 2, 1902.
                         
                          admission charge was twenty-five
                         cents, causing one woman to declare that she had paid only a dime earlier
                         at another town to see "the woman what was petrified."
                         The upset female offered a dime to see the 
                              Evansville
                          version but declared, "I will not pay a
                              quarter."23 Residents of other areas,
                         however, were willing to accept the charge. Eigenman took the
                         "stone man" on tour to Tell City and Huntingburg and
                         basked in the success of his exhibition.
                    Challenging Eigenman's scheme was Louis Lamb, one of the men who
                         actually pulled the specimen from the river. A thirty-nine-year-old
                         fisherman, Lamb carried a police record that went back almost twenty years.
                         Most of the charges and convictions involved petty scams. Further records
                         show that "Lamb came from a disordered family that included three
                         brothers and a father whose name appear[ed] frequently in jail
                              records."24 The calculating Lamb sensed
                         great potential in the petrified human body he and another man had pulled
                         ashore and, without telling Eigenman, had filed suit for a legal
                         determination of the petrified man's rightful owner.25 Lamb had not expressed any disagreement about the ownership
                         of the specimen at the time it was discovered. Instead, he had quietly quit
                         his job and then filed the suit which claimed the value of the stone man to
                         be $7,000.26
                    An initial hearing on October 8, 1902, denied Lamb's request for the
                         court to appoint "a receiver to take charge of the
                         specimen," and the issue of rightful ownership was set to be tried
                         later in the month. At that point, the unusual story grew even more
                         bizarre. On October 17, the Evansville Daily Journal
                         announced, "Petrified Body Gone: Considerable Excitement Prevails
                         over Its Disappearance," and noted that "no one seems to
                         know where it has gone."27 Despite the missing
                         relic, the jury trial began on October 30 when Judge James T. Walker
                         convened the circuit court. Early in the proceedings Lamb's
                         attorneys "moved that the defense be made to bring the stone man
                         into the court," but this action was quickly denied, and the
                         plaintiff's case collapsed soon after. By the 
                              23"Governor and Party View the
                                   Wonderful Stone Man," ibid., October 3, 1902.
                              24Brian Butler, An Undergrowth
                                        of Folly: Public Order, Race Anxiety, and the 1903 
                                             Evansville
                                        , 
                                             Indiana
                                         Riot (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 2000), 212.
                              25"Want Petrified Body in Court
                                   Room," Evansville Daily Journal,
                                   October 8, 1902.
                              26Ibid.
                              27"Petrified Body Gone,"
                                   ibid., October 17, 1902.
                         
                          end of the day Eigenman's
                         attorneys petitioned the court to "instruct the jury to bring in a
                         verdict for the defendant on the grounds that the plaintiff had failed to
                         make out a case." Lamb's attorneys asked that the case be
                         dismissed. With no other party contesting his ownership rights, Eigenman
                         gained legal possession of the object.28
                    When the trial dust had settled, the public began to discuss the whereabouts
                         of the petrified body. "What Has Become of the Petrified
                         Man?" the Evansville Courier asked. Rumors
                         swirled that Eigenman had secretly locked it away in a secure place or that
                         it had been "slipped away from the city and placed on exhibition
                         in some distant city."29 What is known for
                         certain is that after two weeks of displaying the specimen before large
                         crowds, Eigenman abruptly closed the doors to the exhibition when he was
                         faced with the possibility of having to produce it in court. No one would
                         admit to having seen the 300-pound object moved from its original location.
                         Several people publicly confirmed that they did not "know the
                         hiding place of the mysterious stone man" but that they were
                         "positive" that Eigenman had not shipped it out of 
                              Evansville
                         .30 Sam Joseph, the financial manager of
                         the stone man exhibition, told a local paper "that the last night
                         of the exhibition he placed the body in the vault in the rear of the
                         building and was preparing to lock the door when Captain Eigenman told him
                         not to turn the combination, as there was no danger of anyone stealing the
                         body. The next day when Mr. Joseph visited the building the vault door was
                         open and the 300 pound stone man was missing."31 Eigenman fled town soon after the trial ended.
                    On November 3, 1902, the Evansville Courier informed the
                         public that the stone man had been discovered in the 
                              Spencer
                                   County
                          community of 
                              Rockport
                         , where Captain Eigenman was allowing the curious to view it
                         for a fifteen-cent fee. Asked how it had come to be in 
                              Rockport
                         , Eigenman replied that it "had come to life and
                         walked the distance."32 A few days later, the
                              Rockport Democrat noted that the many people who
                         viewed the object on display in the Kitchen Building on Main Street 
                              28"Hiding Place of Stone Man a
                                   Secret," Evansville Courier, October
                                   31, 1902.
                              29"What Has Become of Petrified
                                   Man," ibid., October 28, 1902.
                              30"Hiding Place of Stone Man a
                                   Secret," ibid., October 31, 1902.
                              31Ibid.
                              32"Stone Man Located at 
                                        Rockport
                                   , 
                                        Ind
                                   ," ibid., November 3, 1902.
                         
                          "seem to believe that at one
                         time the body had been imbued with life."33
                         This brief report constituted the final appearance of 
                              Indiana's
                          petrified man in the news.
                    As a tale, 
                              Indiana's
                          petrified man performed several cultural functions. First, it
                         provided a way for the citizens of southern 
                              Indiana
                          - especially those who were descended from the original upland
                         settlers - to connect to their history. At the time of the
                         "discovery" 
                              Evansville
                          was an urbanizing city, with Germans, African Americans, and
                         other ethnic groups moving steadily into the region in search of work.
                         Migration brought cultural changes, and their impact manifested itself in
                         an attempt to reaffirm the region's roots among the southern
                         upland population. Several local histories grew out of a growing interest
                         in the area's pioneer upland past, and, on some level, the
                         petrified man - especially given the amount of human projection placed on
                         it - may have harkened back to an earlier time for many 
                              Evansville
                          locals.34
                    The body also performed an epistemological function for the 
                              Evansville
                          region. The tale helped people to make sense of - or make use
                         of - rapidly evolving trends in scientific knowledge. Donald Zochert
                         suggests that "one of the several forces set in motion by the
                         flood tide of democracy was the rapid diffusion of science, along with the
                         corollary notion that the common man - no less than the philosopher - could
                         fasten upon it to his advantage."35 Scientific
                         knowledge was suddenly accessible by common men, and - as Elizabeth Stewart
                         explains - they were made bold by that "democracy of
                         knowledge," which allowed anyone to claim scientific standing with
                         little or no real training.36 One 
                              33Rockport Democrat,
                                   reprinted in Owensboro Messenger, November 9,
                                   1902.
                              34Lawrence Lipin, Producers,
                                        Proletarians, and Politicians: Workers and Party Politics in 
                                             Evansville
                                         and 
                                             New Albany
                                        , 
                                             Indiana
                                        , 1850-1887 (
                                        Urbana
                                   , 
                                        Ill.
                                   , 1994), 77; and Butler, An Undergrowth
                                        of Folly, 23. Deeper psychological forces may have been
                                   at work as well in the cases of petrified man frauds. Scott Poole
                                   has noted that the discovery of the so-called Saluda
                                        River man held the great interest of the people
                                   in that area of the South because of its psychological power. The
                                   body was quickly claimed as the petrified remains of a
                                   confederate soldier. Poole observed, "The
                                   Saluda
                                        River petrified man is a perfect
                                   symbol for the changing ethos of 
                                        South Carolina
                                   ; a public representation of... a heroic Confederate
                                   past to press into the service of entrepreneurial
                                   impulse." See Scott Poole, Never Surrender:
                                        Confederate Memory and Conservatism in the 
                                             South Carolina
                                         Upcountry. (
                                        Albany
                                   , 
                                        Ga.
                                   , 2004), 179.
                              35Donald Zochert, "Science and the
                                   Common Man in Ante-Bellum 
                                        America
                                   ," Isis, 65 (December
                                   1974), 448.
                              36Elizabeth Pritchard Stewart, Who Shall Decide When Doctors Disagree? Hoaxes and American
                                        Men of Science in the Nineteenth Century, (
                                        Washington, DC
                                   , 2003), ii.
                         
                          "learned scholar" -
                         a former school superintendent - spoke to the Evansville Daily
                              Journal about the process that created 
                              Indiana's
                          petrified man. "Petrification," he
                         maintained, "is caused by the action of lime, in soil or extremely
                         hard water, and by gravel beds ... [t]he body may have lain in the gravel
                         bed, being washed over by the fine rock for two years or an unlimited time
                         beyond that."37 Eventually, more authentic and
                         rigorous scientific assessment caught up with these off-the-cuff
                         statements, but during their heyday in places such as 
                              Evansville
                         , Stewart contends, these comments (and their attendant hoaxes)
                         were organized to "highlight inconsistencies" in the
                         burgeoning fields of geology and paleontology and "undermine their
                              authority."38
                    Regardless of whether 
                              Indiana's
                          petrified man is seen as a means of projection to the past, or
                         as a tool to challenge the orthodoxy of scientific knowledge, the tale of
                         the "great discovery" did not last beyond its
                         perpetrators. Louis Lamb would go on to lead a 1903 race riot in 
                              Evansville
                         , one of the most violent in 
                              Indiana
                          history.39 John Eigenman died from
                         "blood poisoning due to a carbuncle" in 1909; nothing
                         about the stone man incident was mentioned in Eigenman's
                              obituary.40 Although the fracas surrounding 
                              Indiana's
                          own petrified man had occurred only seven years earlier, by
                         that time it would seem very far away indeed.
                    
                         37Evansville Daily Journal,
                              October 1, 1902.
                         38Stewart, Who Shall Decide When the
                                   Doctors Disagree?, 170.
                         39Butler, An Undergrowth of
                                   Folly, 212.
                         40Dale Weekly Reporter, May 3,
                              1909.
                    
               


               

               
                    The Supreme Court and 
                              Indiana's
                          Voter ID Law
                    DAVID WILLIAMS

                    
                              Indiana
                          law requires that in order to vote in-person, Hoosiers must
                         present a photo ID.1 The 
                              Indiana
                          rule is the most restrictive in the country; every other state
                         makes it easier to vote.2 For most people, this
                         requirement is, at worst, an inconvenience, but for others - the indigent,
                         and those who have difficulty getting around - it is more of a burden.3 In September 2007, the U. S. Supreme Court agreed to
                         hear two cases involving challenges to the law. In Crawford v.
                              Marion County Election Board, handed down in April 2008, the
                         Court upheld the law by a 6 to 3 vote. Although the Court observed that 
                              Indiana
                          Republicans had pushed the rule through the statehouse because
                         they calculated that it would discourage mostly Democrats from voting,4 the Court nevertheless held that the Voter ID law
                         was constitutional, because it could help to reduce voter fraud - even
                         though that was not the reason that the legislature had adopted it.5
                    
                         David Williams is John S. Hastings Professor of Law at the School of
                              Law, Indiana University Bloomington.
                         1See Senate Enrolled Act No.
                              483, 2005 Ind. Acts p. 2005.
                         2See Crawford v. Marion County
                                   Election Board, 553 U.S. _ (2008), Nos. 07-21 and 07-25
                              (U.S.S.Ct.April 28, 2008), slip op. at 14 n.26 (dissenting opinion of
                              J. Souter), and at 3-5 (dissenting opinion of J. Breyer).
                         3See id. at 15 (opinion of J.
                              Stevens announcing the judgment of the Court).
                         4See id. at 20.
                         5See id. at 5.
                         INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (December 2008) C 2008, Trustees of
                              Indiana University
                    

                    
                    Many citizens find it offensive that the political parties manipulate the
                         electoral law to their own advantage in this way. In this view, politicians
                         are "rigging the system." A fair electoral scheme should
                         be neutral, designed to allow the people to express their will, rather than
                         to favor one party or another. 
                              Indiana
                          citizens in particular may find it discomfiting that the Crawford case puts their state's partisan
                         wrangling on display to the nation. Some Hoosiers may be even more
                         disturbed that the Supreme Court casually upholds such maneuvering. But
                         both the maneuvering and the Court's acceptance of it have been
                         going on for a very long time. The Crawford case does not
                         make history, insofar as that phrase connotes the creation of something
                         new; rather, it perpetuates an old historical pattern.
                    The most common way that partisans rig the electoral system is
                         gerrymandering: drawing district lines in such a way as to favor one party.
                         Imagine a simplified hypothetical: a state with four districts, each
                         electing one person to the legislature, and with one hundred voters,
                         thirty-nine Democrats and sixty-one Republicans. Because they won an
                         earlier election, the Democrats control the statehouse and have the power
                         to draw the district lines wherever they like. Using up-to-date demographic
                         information and computer modeling, they create one district with
                         twenty-five Republicans, and three districts with thirteen Democrats and
                         twelve Republicans. As a result, although the Democrats have only 39
                         percent of the electorate, they control 75 percent of the legislature
                         through the magic of gerrymandering. This example illustrates a technique
                         called "packing": it crowds so many Republicans into the
                         first district that there are not enough for the other districts.
                    Hoosier politicians are familiar with gerrymandering. In Davis
                              v. Bandemer,6 the Supreme Court considered
                         the post-1980 Republican gerrymander of the 
                              Indiana
                          state legislature. To quote Justice Lewis Powell's
                         separate opinion: "As one Republican House member concisely put
                         it, '[t]he name of the game is to keep us in
                              power.'"7 Nonetheless, a
                         plurality of the Court upheld the scheme against constitutional challenge.
                         It explained that the Constitution forbids only those gerrymanders that
                         "consistently degrade a voter's or a group of
                         voters' influence on the political process as a whole"8 without explaining how one might establish 
                              6478 U.S. 109 (1986).
                              7Id. at 177-178
                                   (dissenting opinion of J. Powell).
                              8Id. at 132 (plurality
                                   opinion of J. White).
                         
                          such degradation. More recently, the
                         Court has gone further, holding that political gerrymanders are
                         non-justiciable - meaning that they are completely immune to judicial
                              inspection.9
                    Crawford involved a different sort of partisan
                         manipulation: restrictions on the right to vote itself. Gerrymandering
                         divides voters into districts in such a way as to affect the power of their
                         votes. By contrast, restrictions on the right to vote deny some people the
                         franchise altogether. Not all such restrictions are wrong-headed or unfair.
                         In fact, some are necessary to make a fair election possible. For example,
                         to vote, one must generally be older than eighteen, of sound mind, and
                         resident in the district in which the election is occurring. To vote in a
                         primary election, in many states, one must be a member of the party. And so
                         forth.
                    The 
                              State of
                                   Indiana
                          defended its Voter ID law on just these grounds: far from
                         frustrating fair elections, it makes them possible by reducing in-person
                         voter fraud.10 If a voter must present photo
                         identification, it will be harder for him to claim to be someone else. To
                         some extent, 
                              Indiana
                          had already increased the risk of voter fraud by failing to
                         update its voter rolls. The state's failure has been so egregious
                         that the federal government accused it in court of violating federal
                         election law, and the state agreed to a consent decree in which the state
                         admitted to violating federal law and promised to come into compliance.11 And because the rolls are so bloated with those who
                         have died or moved out of state, someone inclined to commit fraud could
                         easily find someone to impersonate on election day.
                    In short, then, some restrictions on the right to vote are entirely
                         appropriate, even inevitable. The Supreme Court's task is to
                         distinguish between those restrictions that help to create fair elections
                         and so are constitutional, and those that make elections unfair and so are
                         unconstitutional. In legal terms, the Court needs a standard by which to
                         measure these restrictions so as to sort the wheat from the chaff. That is
                         the issue on which Crawford turned.
                    As is typical of the Court these days, the justices could not agree on the
                         correct analysis, and the divisions between them were somewhat 
                              9See Vieth v Jubilerer,
                                   541 U.S. 267 (2004).
                              10See Crawford, slip op.
                                   at 7 (opinion of J. Stevens announcing the judgment of the
                                   Court).
                              11See id. at 12-13.
                         
                          byzantine. Six thought that the law
                         was constitutional, and three thought the contrary. The six in the
                         majority, however, were divided into two camps. On the one hand, Justice
                         John Paul Stevens, joined by Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Anthony
                         Kennedy, held that restrictions on the right to vote should be judged by a
                         contextual balancing test. In this view, the Court should "weigh
                         the asserted injury to the right to vote against the 'precise
                         interests put forward by the State as justifications for the burden imposed
                         by its rule.'"12 In Justice
                         Stevens's view, the voter ID law placed only a light burden on
                         voters, but the state's interest in blocking fraud was heavy. As a
                         result, he deemed the statute constitutional.13 The
                         three Justices in dissent agreed that the balancing test was the correct
                         standard but in their view, the burden on the right to vote was potentially
                         very heavy, and the State's interest in avoiding voter fraud
                         through the Voter ID law was unsubstantiated.14
                    The other three Justices in the majority - Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence
                         Thomas, and Samuel Alito - would have preferred a two-track approach. In
                         their view, the Court should apply "strict scrutiny" to
                         "severe burdens" on the right to vote, meaning that such
                         burdens will be upheld only if they serve a truly compelling state interest
                         in the least burdensome possible way. By contrast, the Court should treat
                         with deference those "[o]rdinary and widespread burdens"
                         that are "merely inconvenient."15 In
                         the real world, of course, a burden may be much more severe to some people
                         than to others. For example, the Voter ID law will be, to most people,
                         annoying at worst, but to the poor and immobile, the burden may prove
                         greater. But in Justice Scalia's view, in measuring the severity
                         of a burden, the Court should consider only the experience of the
                         generality of people. In other words, the Court should ignore the fact that
                         some might encounter the law as a formidable obstacle.16 Ergo, because the law did not pose a severe burden to the
                         typical voter, Justices Scalia, Thomas, and Alito voted to uphold it.
                    
                         12Id. at 6 (quoting Burdick v.
                              Takushi, 504 U.S. 428, 434 (1992), which in turn was quoting Anderson v. Celebrezze, 460 U.S. 780, 789
                              (1983).
                         13See id. at 20.
                         14See Crawford, slip op. at 1-2
                              (dissenting opinion of J. Souter); 1-2 (dissenting opinion of J.
                              Breyer).
                         15Crawford, slip op. at 2
                              (opinion of J. Scalia concurring in the judgement).
                         16See id. at 3-6.
                    
                    
                    In applying any of these tests, the Court must consider the evidence so as to
                         assess the degree of burden on the voter and the strength of the state
                         interest. Unfortunately, neither side could muster much evidence to support
                         its claims. On the one hand, it makes sense in the abstract that the law
                         would fall especially hard on voters without money and without mobility.
                         Getting a photo ID can be a bothersome process. 
                              Indiana
                          offers free photo IDs, but only when the voter presents a form
                         of "primary identification" such as a passport or birth
                         certificate, documents which can be costly and complicated to obtain.17 Voters who do not have photo ID typically have
                         limited resources and feel little able to navigate the labyrinth of
                         government regulations. They are easily discouraged and their will to vote
                         is limited. Many will not bother to obtain photo ID because they are busy
                         coping with too many other problems. Indigent voters may cast a provisional
                         ballot without ID, but they must travel to the county courthouse to file an
                         affidavit within ten days - again, difficult for those with limited
                         resources. Truly determined voters might overcome all these obstacles, but
                         those without resources are unlikely to be so determined, believing that
                         they have a limited stake in a system that is clearly not working for them.
                         If this scenario is accurate, the law must have blocked some people from
                         voting, and yet the challengers could not point to a single person who
                         wanted to vote but did not because of the law.18
                    On the other hand, it makes sense that requiring a photo ID will prevent
                         people from trying to vote under someone else's name. But the
                         state was unable to point to a single instance of in-person voter fraud in 
                              Indiana's
                          history, so it seems that the old system of voter
                         identification - comparing the voter's signature on the spot with
                         the signature provided at registration - must have been doing a good job of
                         blocking fraud, without the additional burdens levied by the new law.
                         Indeed, if this law were necessary to deter fraud, one would expect other
                         states to follow 
                              Indiana's
                          lead, but they have not. 
                              Indiana's
                          law remains the most burdensome in the country.19
                    In short, for all the evidence shows, the law neither prevents a large group
                         of people from voting, nor circumvents voter fraud. If the 
                              17See Crawford, slip op.
                                   at 3 (dissenting opinion of J. Breyer).
                              18See Crawford, slip op.
                                   at 17-18 (opinion of J. Stevens announcing the judgement of the
                                   Court).
                              19See Crawford, slip op.
                                   at 18-23 (dissenting opinion of J. Souter).
                         
                          law has so little effect either way,
                         one might wonder why the legislature bothered to pass it. The answer is
                         that the Republican legislature passed this law because it thought that the
                         act would discourage Democrats from voting. (To avoid the appearance of
                         partisanship, I should add that 
                              Indiana
                          Democrats resisted the law for the same reason.) Elections are
                         sometimes won by a margin of only a few votes. If the law keeps even a few
                         Democratic voters from voting, it might swing a few elections to the
                         Republicans. All the Republicans in both houses of the General Assembly
                         voted for the measure, and all of the Democrats, except for three who were
                         excused, voted against it.20
                    Although partisan advantage was clearly the reason for the law, that fact
                         carried no weight in any of the Crawford Court's
                         four opinions, even those that found the law unconstitutional. Three
                         opinions - those authored by Justices Scalia, Souter, and Breyer - do not
                         even mention the partisan origins of the law, although Justice Souter does
                         object that "it targets the poor and the weak."21 By contrast, Justice Stevens's opinion
                         openly recognizes that "the litigation was the result of a
                         partisan dispute that had 'spilled out of the state house into the
                              courts.'"22 And yet Justice
                         Stevens upholds the law on the grounds that "if a
                         nondiscriminatory law is supported by valid neutral justifications, those
                         justifications should not be disregarded simply because partisan interests
                         may have provided one motivation for the votes of individual
                              legislators."23 In other words, even if
                         the real motive for the law is partisan advantage, the Court will
                         nevertheless uphold it so long as it also serves legitimate non-partisan
                         goals.
                    But if the Court was aware of the law's real motive of partisan
                         advantage, one might have expected the Justices to look with a jaundiced
                         eye on the state's claim that the statute is critical to prevent
                         voter fraud. The Justices might have required the state to show that it is
                         not merely using concern about voter fraud as a cover. And to that end, the
                         Court might have demanded clear and convincing evidence that the 
                              20See Crawford, slip op.
                                   at 20 n.21 (opinion of J. Stevens announcing the judgment of the
                                   Court).
                              21Crawford, slip op. at 29
                                   (dissenting opinion of J. Souter).
                              22Crawford, slip op. at 20
                                   (opinion of J. Stevens announcing the judgment of the Court)
                                   (quoting Judge Barker's district court opinion, Crawford v. Marion Country Election Board, 458
                                   F Supp. 2d 775, 783 (SD Ind 2006).
                              
                                   23
                                   Id.
                              
                         
                          voter ID law is the best way to deal
                         with a pressing problem of voter fraud. But as we have seen, there is no
                         evidence that in-person voter fraud has ever occurred in 
                              Indiana
                         , and no other state has felt the need to adopt such a
                         restrictive rule, even though in some of these states in-person fraud has
                         been a problem.
                    In cases of this sort, where little evidence exists on either side, the Court
                         inevitably makes its decisions based on background presumptions and burdens
                         of proof. The Court could presume the statute to be unconstitutional unless
                         the state convinces it otherwise. Instead, the Court presumes the statute
                         to be constitutional unless the challenger convinces otherwise - a puzzling
                         approach for the Crawford case, because the law's partisan nature
                         would seem to be reason for suspicion.
                    The fact most relevant to the politicians and the voters - that this law will
                         help Republicans - has no significance for the Court. Indeed, at one point,
                         Justice Stevens seems to forget that fact: as we have seen, he explains
                         that a "nondiscriminatory law" is not automatically
                         unconstitutional just because "partisan interests may have
                         provided one motivation for the votes of individual
                              legislators."24 But in what sense is the
                         voter ID law nondiscriminatory? Facially, it treats everyone the same; all
                         voters - rich or poor, Republican or Democrat - must show photo ID. But by
                         Justice Stevens's own admission, everyone in the legislature
                         understood that the law would in practice discriminate against Democratic
                         voters, and the supporters of the law clearly intended that
                         discrimination.
                    Perhaps the gerrymandering cases provide the solution to this puzzle. In 
                              America
                         , the majority party has traditionally adopted electoral laws
                         in its own favor, and this Court has been reluctant to do anything about
                         it. This long-standing state of affairs may have substantial historical
                         consequences. Americans have become cynical about the political system
                         because they see it as a forum only for the pursuit of narrow partisan
                         advantage. This cynicism has already done damage to our democracy, and in
                         the future, it may do much more. Sitting outside the political struggle,
                         the Court might have functioned as a neutral umpire to prevent partisan
                         manipulations of the electoral system itself - the very "rules of
                         the game." But the Justices have declined the invitation, and our
                         future will apparently be more of the same.
                    
                         
                              24
                              Id.
                         
                    
               


               

               
                    The Whole World Was Watching ... Again: 
                              Indiana's
                          2008 Presidential Primary

                    MARJORIE RANDON HERSHEY
                    Hoosiers do not usually see presidential campaigns in person. We know from
                         media coverage that they are taking place in other states, but we know just
                         as surely that candidates for the presidency do not come to 
                              Indiana
                         , with the occasional exception of a trip to raise money. The 
                              Indiana
                          primary takes place in May, much too late to make a difference
                         in most presidential nomination races. Presidential candidates generally
                         see no reason to visit in the fall campaign, either. Republican candidates
                         have grown accustomed to winning the state's electoral votes
                         whether they travel to 
                              Indiana
                          or not, as has happened in every election since Lyndon
                         Johnson's landslide victory in 1964. For the same reason, it has
                         long seemed pointless for a Democratic presidential candidate to waste his
                         or her time trying to change that pattern.
                    Hoosiers pay a price for such assumptions. Presidential campaigns serve a
                         number of purposes in addition to selecting a winner. A 
                              Marjorie Randon Hershey is professor of political science and
                                   director of the Leadership, Ethics, and Social Action Program at
                                   Indiana University. Her research focuses on the media coverage of
                                   political campaigns and elections, and she teaches about
                                   political parties and interest groups, environmental policy, and
                                   American politics in general. She is the author of Party Politics in 
                                             America
                                         (13th ed., 
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 2008) and a variety of other books and articles.
                                   She has won a series of teaching awards at Indiana
                                   University.
                              INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (December 2008) C 2008,
                                   Trustees of Indiana University
                         
                          presidential candidate's
                         visit generates real excitement in an area. People who have the chance to
                         see a candidate in person are more likely to feel an emotional connection
                         to the campaign. Knowing that Barack Obama has visited a local tavern or
                         that Hillary Clinton is speaking at a nearby arena builds a link between
                         citizens and the candidate that goes beyond what they see on the news. When
                         people feel such a connection - as long as it does not become fanatical -
                         their interest is engaged and they learn more readily about issues,
                         politics, and the candidate him- or herself.
                    The 2008 
                              Indiana
                          primary sparked a greater degree of such involvement than this
                         university town has seen in three decades. Most college-age
                         adults' political involvement is low. They stand on the cusp of
                         dramatic changes in their lives - graduation, the hope of a job, a family,
                         a home, a mortgage - most of which are far more engaging than the prospect
                         of learning about presidential candidates. Their addresses typically change
                         from year to year, so the volleys of direct mailings that older adults come
                         to expect do not reach their mailboxes or even their e-mail inboxes. Their
                         favored television stations - MTV and, yes, Nickelodeon - carry little
                         political advertising; campaigns know that people under the age of 25 turn
                         out to vote at only about two-thirds the rate of people over the age of 65,
                         and so do not place TV ads on the stations these young people watch.
                         Finally, 
                              Indiana's
                          primary takes place a week after final exams have ended at IU;
                         most students have left town before the polls open.
                    Imagine our surprise, then, on the mid-April day in 2008 when vans sponsored
                         by Students for Obama began pulling up in front of the Indiana Memorial
                         Union, offering free rides to anyone who wanted to take advantage of the
                         new opportunity to vote in person during the month before Primary Day.
                         Barack Obama himself had visited town the week before, stopping at
                         Nick's English Hut for a quick photo opportunity and exciting
                         local interest. The number of students voting early soon proved so
                         substantial that County Clerk Jim Fielder decided to allow early voting in
                         the Union itself on two additional afternoons. On April 25, Hillary Clinton
                         spoke at IU's Assembly Hall; five days later, Obama was back, this
                         time at Assembly Hall as well. The same experience occurred all over the
                         state, prompted by hundreds of campaign stops: Hillary Clinton's
                         visit to a 
                              Kokomo
                          high school gym; Chelsea Clinton's visit to 
                              Salem
                         ; Bill Clinton's visits to more than 100 sites,
                         ranging from Plymouth High School to a 
                              Munster
                          steel company, a 
                              Kendallville
                          firehouse, and a rock concert in 
                              Indianapolis
                         .
                    
                    Old 
                              Indiana
                          hands recall the 1968 Democratic primary as the most recent
                         instance in which 
                              Indiana's
                          presidential primary affected the nation as a whole.1 New York Senator Robert E Kennedy had announced in
                         mid-March that he would challenge President Lyndon Johnson for the
                         Democratic nomination as a protest against Johnson's policy of
                         escalated American involvement in the Vietnam War. 
                              Minnesota
                          Senator Eugene McCarthy, also an opponent of the war, had
                         previously entered the Democratic race. At that time, state party leaders -
                         not primary voters - selected most of the delegates to the presidential
                         nominating convention. Underdog candidates would often run in a few
                         selected primaries to demonstrate their appeal. John F. Kennedy, for
                         instance, had entered the 1960 
                              West
                                   Virginia
                          primary to prove to Democratic Party leaders that a Catholic
                         could win in a heavily Protestant state. In 1968, after Johnson's
                         March 3 withdrawal from the race, Robert Kennedy chose 
                              Indiana
                          as the first state primary in which to test his new candidacy.
                         He hoped to show that 
                              Indiana's
                          working-class whites - later termed "Reagan
                         Democrats" - were increasingly opposed to the war and preferred
                         Kennedy to McCarthy as their standard-bearer. Johnson's successor
                         as the candidate of the party establishment, Vice President Hubert
                         Humphrey, was not on the ballot in 
                              Indiana
                         . But Democratic governor Roger Branigin ran as a
                         "favorite son," a means by which a state leader could
                         keep the state's delegates unified until a key moment at the
                         convention when he or she could swing the state's delegate votes
                         to one presidential candidate in return for some consideration for the
                         state, such as policy commitments or pork barrel projects.
                    Early one evening in April 1968, Kennedy was on his way to speak at an
                         outdoor rally in a predominantly black area of 
                              Indianapolis
                          when he heard that Martin Luther King Jr. had been shot to
                         death in 
                              Memphis
                         . Against the urgings of the police and his own staff, Kennedy
                         continued on to the rally, where he broke the terrible news to the waiting
                         crowd. He spoke movingly of his shock and grief, of his own
                         family's losses, and of the fact that his brother John's
                         killer had also been a white man. He implored the crowd to forsake violent
                         retribution in favor of love, compassion, and a desire for justice. 
                              Indianapolis
                          was one of the few large cities in the 
                              United States
                          to escape the violence that erupted from outraged black
                         Americans that night. And against all expectations, Kennedy 
                              1See Ray E. Boomhower, Robert F
                                        Kennedy and the 1968 
                                             Indiana
                                         Primary (
                                        Bloomington
                                   , 
                                        Ind.
                                   , 2008).
                         
                          beat the party establishment and won a
                         plurality of votes in the primary - a month before he, too, was
                         assassinated.
                    The tumult of the 1968 nomination race continued into the Democratic National
                         Convention in 
                              Chicago
                         . Kennedy and McCarthy supporters protested bitterly that by
                         nominating Humphrey, the party's leaders were not listening to the
                         demands of rank-and-file Democrats, especially regarding the Vietnam War
                         and civil rights. Party leaders negotiated a fragile and temporary peace by
                         promising a reform commission - later known as the McGovern-Fraser
                         Commission after its two successive chairs - that would open up the
                         nominating process to greater participation by grassroots activists. The
                         commission produced a series of rules changes in time for the 1972
                         Democratic nomination race: requiring the majority of convention delegates
                         to be chosen by rank-and-file Democrats in primaries and participatory
                         caucuses, and translating those choices into convention delegate seats
                         according to a system of proportional representation.2
                    Increasingly, state Democratic parties chose to hold primaries to select
                         their convention delegates, because these events were more likely than
                         caucuses to attract media coverage and, consequently, voters. The 
                              Iowa
                          caucuses (by state law, the first delegate selection event in
                         the nation each election year) and the 
                              New
                                   Hampshire
                          primary (also by state law, the first primary) usually have
                         received the most attention, a fact not lost on Democrats elsewhere. By the
                         1990s, so many other states had moved their delegate selection events
                         closer to the dates of 
                              Iowa's
                          and 
                              New
                                   Hampshire's
                          that the primary season was becoming highly
                              "front-loaded."3
                         
                              Indiana
                         , however, did not follow suit; its primary continued to be
                         scheduled in early May, just as it had been in 1968. 
                              Indiana's
                          resistance to front-loading was driven as much by state party
                         leaders' concern about the unpredictable choices made by new
                         voters drawn into an early primary by a lively presidential race as it was
                         by any innate 
                              21f a presidential candidate received 52
                                   percent of the votes in the state or congressional district, he
                                   or she would receive 52 percent of the delegates from that state
                                   or district, not 100 percent. Candidates other than the
                                   frontrunner would still have a chance of winning delegates in
                                   each primary, encouraging more candidates to remain in the race
                                   longer. On proportional representation, see Marjorie Randon
                                   Hershey, Party Politics in 
                                             America
                                         (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 2009), 32. On the Democratic reforms more
                                   generally, see Hershey, Party Politics in 
                                             America
                                        , 70-71; and Austin Ranney, Curing the Mischiefs of Faction (
                                        Berkeley
                                   , 
                                        Calif.
                                   , 1976).
                              3See Andrew E. Busch and William G. Mayer,
                                   "The Front-Loading Problem," in The Making of the Presidential Candidates 2004, ed.
                                   William G. Mayer (
                                        Lanham
                                   , 
                                        Md.
                                   , 2004), 1-43.
                         
                          hostility toward change. Thus the
                         turbulence of the 1968 
                              Indiana
                          primary led to party reforms that ultimately placed the 
                              Indiana
                          primary so late in the nominating season that few noticed it -
                         even in 
                              Indiana
                          - until May of 2008.
                    Early in the year, during the Democratic nomination race, first-term 
                              Illinois
                          Senator Barack Obama took an unexpected lead over the early
                         frontrunner, 
                              New
                                   York
                          Senator (and former First Lady) Hillary Clinton. Obama won the 
                              Iowa
                          caucuses, lost the 
                              New
                                   Hampshire
                          primary, but regained his footing with a string of primary and
                         caucus wins in February. Obama's lead, though persistent, was
                         small; the Democrats' proportional representation rule meant that
                         although both candidates were winning states by lopsided margins, each was
                         continuing to win enough delegates in each state to closely balance the
                         other's delegate totals.
                    By early March, however, Obama's storied success as the first black
                         American with a genuine chance of winning a presidential nomination had
                         begun to fade. In the 
                              Ohio
                          primary, Obama lost by 8 percent; the seven-week wait until
                         the 
                              Pennsylvania
                          primary - the first extended pause in a lightning-fast
                         campaign - permitted commentators to dissect the meaning of that loss. They
                         concluded that Obama lacked sufficient appeal for working-class whites, who
                         could be swing voters in the general election.4 Other
                         events hit the Obama campaign hard as well. Much was made of
                         Obama's remark at a private fundraiser in 
                              California
                          that small-town voters, bitter about their economic
                         misfortunes, clung for reassurance to religion and guns. Clinton cited this
                         impolitic remark to charge that Obama was an elitist in populist clothing.
                         Then Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., Obama's longtime preacher in 
                              Chicago
                         , was found to have made a number of incendiary statements,
                         including that the 
                              U.S.
                          government bore partial responsibility for the 9/11 terrorist
                         attacks and for the spread of AIDS to black Americans. Obama repudiated
                         Wright, but not immediately. Although Obama's subsequent loss in 
                              Pennsylvania
                          had long been anticipated by polls, it capped one of the worst
                         weeks of Obama's nomination race. He continued to lead Clinton in
                         pledged delegates by about 155 (out of 2831 chosen at that point) and was
                         gaining in 
                              4Jay Cost, "How Obama Beat the
                                   Line," Real Clear Politics, May 7,
                                   2008,
                                   http://www.realclearpolitics.com/horseraceblog/2008/05/how_obamabeat_the_line.html.
                                   Clinton also bested Obama by 18 percent among those who had not
                                   gone to college and by 12 percent among voters in union
                                   households.
                         
                          superdelegate commitments, but his
                         failure to "close the deal," in Clinton's
                         phrase, was becoming the main storyline of the campaign.
                    The next two major delegate selection events were held in 
                              Indiana
                          and 
                              North
                                   Carolina
                          two weeks later, on May 6. Most polls showed Clinton leading
                         in 
                              Indiana
                          by about 5 percentage points. That was understandable;
                         demographically (especially in terms of income, industrial makeup, and
                         race), 
                              Indiana
                          resembled 
                              Ohio
                          and 
                              Pennsylvania
                         , and a number of leading 
                              Indiana
                          Democrats endorsed Clinton, including Sen. Evan Bayh and State
                         Democratic Party Chair Dan Parker. And Obama's chances suffered
                         again when Rev. Wright unapologetically repeated his controversial claims
                         at a press conference soon after the 
                              Pennsylvania
                          vote.
                    The momentum had swung toward Hillary Clinton. Analysts suggested that if
                         Clinton won by at least 10 percent in 
                              Indiana
                         , and came close to winning in 
                              North
                                   Carolina
                          - where Obama was clearly favored - then her candidacy could
                         possibly turn the tide in superdelegate support. But if Obama won 
                              North
                                   Carolina
                          handily and just came close to a win in 
                              Indiana
                         , Clinton's hopes for the nomination would be dashed.
                         Clinton supporter James Carville, speaking on TV's "Larry
                         King Live," pronounced that "
                              Indiana's
                          the tie-breaker." A May 2008 story in The Economist carried a similar analysis: Should Mrs. Clinton stumble in 
                                   Indiana
                              , her campaign will almost certainly be doomed. Her recent
                              comeback critically depends on maintaining the momentum generated
                              since her breakthrough in 
                                   Ohio
                               on March 4th, which has allowed her continually to close
                              the gap in the popular vote between her and Mr. Obama. If that process
                              goes into reverse, she will lose the most convincing argument that she
                              is able to deploy to the wavering superdelegates who will determine
                              the final outcome because the tally of elected delegates is so finely
                              balanced. But this time there are some risks for Mr. Obama as well. He
                              badly needs a resounding success to counter a period of well over a
                              month in which the news has been unremittingly bad for him.5
                    
                         5"The Democrats: The Challenge in 
                                   Indiana
                              ," The Economist, May 5, 2008,
                              http://www.economist.com/world/unitedstates/displaystory.cfm?story_id=
                              11318463.
                    
                    
                    In the end, Hillary Clinton won 
                              Indiana
                          with only 51 percent of the vote. Her support came
                         disproportionately from whites (especially white women), those over the age
                         of 50, non-college graduates, gun owners, moderate to conservative
                         Democrats, and those feeling the impact of the economic decline - though
                         the differences by education and income were not as marked as they had been
                         in 
                              Ohio
                          and 
                              Pennsylvania
                         .6 Obama voters tended to be under 40,
                         college-educated, African American, those with no religious affiliation,
                         and those who considered themselves very liberal. Geographically, Obama won
                         northwest 
                              Indiana
                          and 
                              Marion
                                   County
                         ; Clinton won everywhere else.
                    There was some crossover voting in the 
                              Indiana
                          primary; about 10 percent of Democratic primary voters
                         identified themselves in exit polls as Republicans. Although radio
                         commentator Rush Limbaugh claimed to have affected the 
                              Indiana
                          results with his "Operation Chaos" (urging
                         Republicans to vote for Clinton and thus prolong the Democratic race) these
                         crossover voters divided their votes in almost the same proportions as
                         Democratic voters did.7
                         
                              Indiana's
                          72 pledged delegates are allocated proportionately: 47 based
                         on the outcome of each congressional district and the remaining 25 on the
                         basis of the statewide results. The close outcome of the 2008 
                              Indiana
                          primary produced 38 delegates pledged to Clinton and 34 for
                         Obama.
                    In part because Clinton did not do as well in 
                              Indiana
                          as she had in 
                              Ohio
                          and 
                              Pennsylvania
                         , 
                              Indiana
                          was perceived as nearly a loss for Clinton; it undercut her
                         claim that she was clearly the more electable candidate in big states. The
                         Clinton campaign's disappointment was deepened by Obama's
                         convincing win in 
                              North
                                   Carolina
                         , 56 to 42 percent. In the days following the primary, enough
                         superdelegates declared their intention to vote for Obama that he finally
                         took the lead in superdelegates and in pledged delegates. The media
                         concurred that as a result of 
                              Indiana's
                          vote, Senator Clinton had lost the nomination race, and it was
                         time for Obama to turn his attention to the presumptive Republican nominee,
                         Sen. John McCain. The Washington Post reported, for
                         instance, that "in a campaign of near-deaths and 
                              6See
                                   http://politics.nytimes.com/election-guide/2008/results/vote-polls/IN.html.
                              7It is impossible to prove if voters were
                                   responding to Limbaughs appeal, but given the distribution of
                                   their votes, Limbaugh's effect appears to have been
                                   negligible.
                         
                          premature obituaries, the night of May
                         6 will be remembered inside Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign as
                         the moment it really ended."8
                    The unprecedented media attention to the 
                              Indiana
                          primary gave Americans a chance to learn more about the state
                         of 
                              Indiana
                          than they would otherwise have known. Although early inquiries
                         from members of the national press corps revealed a rather limited
                         familiarity with what some have termed "flyover country"
                         (one news analyst from a major newspaper asked an Indiana University
                         professor to confirm that 
                              Indiana
                          "is a farm state, right?"), by the time of
                         the primary at least some reporters showed much more detailed knowledge
                         about the various parts of the state.9 The American and
                         international press paid attention to some state and local political
                         leaders for the first time. Media people spent at least a few hours in 
                              Indiana
                          prior to the election, and stories about the primary were
                         carried in outlets as diverse as the Kyodo (
                              Japan
                         ) News Service, Agence France Presse, and Rosbalt (a Russian
                         independent media outlet). The resulting rise in 
                              Indiana's
                          public profile was undoubtedly worth even more to the state
                         than were the many dollars spent by media people covering the campaign.
                    Another intriguing outcome of the presidential primary was its effect on
                         state and local races. Turnout in previous 
                              Indiana
                          primaries had been slight, so state and local contests had
                         been decided largely by party activists and other stalwart party voters.
                         But in a year when about 200,000 Hoosiers registered to vote for the first
                         time - most because they wanted to vote in the presidential race - these
                         state and local candidates faced the prospect that their races could be
                         decided by people who knew almost nothing about them, including crossovers
                         from the other party.10
                    Perhaps the most notable result of the primary's starring role was
                         its impact on Hoosier political involvement. In the 2008 
                              Indiana
                          primary, 
                              8Anne E. Kornblut and Dan Balz,
                                   "She Could Accept Losing. She Could Not Accept
                                   Quitting," Washington Post, June 5,
                                   2008.
                              9On the other hand, National Public
                                   Radio's "All Things Considered" ran an
                                   interview with a hair stylist in a small 
                                        Indiana
                                    town who commented in hushed tones, but with an
                                   obvious effort at tact, "Well, if Obama became
                                   president, it might be a problem in international negotiations
                                   that he has been, you know, a practicing Muslim."
                              10Though there are no data to substantiate
                                   it, many observers speculated that former U.S. Representative
                                   Jill Long Thompson's gubernatorial campaign got a boost
                                   from the large number of primary voters mobilized by the Obama
                                   campaign in the state.
                         
                          39 percent of registered voters went
                         to the polls, up from just 21 percent in 2004. There were 173,525 absentee
                         ballots cast, compared to 61,345 in 2006.11 To the
                         extent that citizens of 
                              Indiana
                          - including even university students - were stimulated to pay
                         attention to national politics by the unexpected prominence of the 
                              Indiana
                          primary, the state will have received a valuable boost in
                         continuing citizenship education.
                    
                         11Brian A. Howey, "Hoosiers Can Really
                              Change the World," Howey Politics Indiana,
                              May 23, 2008, http://www.howeypolitics.com/.
                    
               

               
               
                    REVIEWS
                    The Time and Place That Gave Me Life By Janet
                         Cheatham Bell (
                              Bloomington
                         : Indiana University Press, 2007. Pp. 247. Illustrations,
                         notes, index. $22.95.)
                    With wit, aplomb, and a candor born of bitter experience, Janet Cheatham Bell
                         has crafted a compelling memoir about growing up in 
                              Indiana
                         . She does so "in the hope that I can better
                         understand my birthplace" (p.14). But her book is so much more: It
                         is a riveting account of black Americans' historical struggles to
                         succeed in a city, state, and society defined largely by race and racial
                         discrimination.
                    Cast against the backdrop of major events such as the Great Migration and the
                         civil rights movement, Bell's account begins with her birth,
                         shortly before World War II, to parents who had migrated to 
                              Indianapolis
                          in the 1920s. Searching for economic, political, and social
                         freedom, Bell's largely uneducated parents eked out a modest
                         existence for their family in a city where black employment opportunities
                         were scarce, often restricted to menial, dead-end jobs. No stranger to work
                         herself, Bell toiled in a series of summer and afterschool jobs. In 1952
                         the fifteen-year-old Bell became a civil rights pioneer as the first black
                         high school student page at the Indiana State Library.
                    Bell's memoir is mostly devoted to her student years and to the
                         impact of race on her schooling. She contended not only with white students
                         at Manual High School who wanted to touch her skin or hair, but also with
                         teachers who saw no future beyond domestic service for a young black woman.
                         Her story might have ended there, had not Bell's love of books,
                         and a supportive guidance counselor, helped her to realize her ambition to
                         attend college. Indiana University at Bloomington was no more welcoming.
                         Besides the sheer size of the campus, where she felt isolated and alone,
                         the racial climate also seemed more threatening than it had been in 
                              Indianapolis
                         . After three semesters of dismal grades, she was asked to
                         leave. It would take persistence and determination, her first-born infant
                         son's death, a crumbling 
                              INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, 104 (December 2008) C 2008,
                                   Trustees of Indiana University.
                         
                          marriage, and a grant from the Indiana
                         State Library to drive her finally to complete her studies at IU in June
                         1964.
                    Bell interweaves within her story examples of the crippling effects of racism
                         on blacks' self-image, self-esteem, and group unity; the racial
                         prejudice and hostility of white employers and their staffs; the struggles
                         of black students for acceptance at IU; the Crispus Attucks basketball
                         teams' battles to win the state championship; intraracial
                         obsessions with skin color and so-called "good" hair; and
                         African students' refusals at IU to associate with American-born
                         blacks.
                    A subtext of this memoir is its discussion of the traditional gender roles
                         and Victorian-style morality that shaped the lives of males and females
                         alike in the 1950s; here Bell contrasts the ideal of marriage with the fear
                         of spinsterhood, as well as the ideal of motherhood versus the ever-present
                         fear of pregnancy and illegitimacy - a fear made all the more palpable
                         because "nobody talked about sex of any kind" (p.
                         226).
                    Bell recounts memories of an economically and socially vibrant black 
                              Indianapolis
                          community as well. Here, she provides vignettes on the
                         bustling stores, restaurants, and nightclubs of Indiana Avenue, of
                         all-black summer resorts and social clubs, and of the Senate Avenue YMCA,
                         legendary for its "Monster Meetings" featuring speakers
                         ranging from W. E. B. DuBois and Eleanor Roosevelt to Thurgood Marshall and
                         Martin Luther King Jr.
                    Bell believes that "although racism is alive, well and here to
                         stay" (p. 15), it has been more an obstacle than a deterrent in
                         her own life. Her willingness to learn from experience actually fertilized
                         her growth. Bell's memoir is a telling reminder that freedom is -
                         in the words of the 1960s civil rights song - a constant struggle.
                     MONROE LITTLE, Indiana University, Indianapolis, is currently
                         completing a biography of Joseph T. Taylor, the first Dean of Liberal Arts
                         at Indiana University-Purdue University, Indianapolis.
               


               
                    Taliaferro Breaking Barriers from the NFL Draft to the
                              Ivory Tower By Dawn Knight (
                              Bloomington
                         : Indiana University Press, 2007. Pp. xii, 169. Illustrations,
                         bibliography. $24.95.)
                    Books about sport stars are commonplace these days. Most tell familiar
                         stories about the successes of these men and women. Some give inspirational
                         accounts of their strivings. Others tell a story of fame and famine.
                         Occasionally a few will inspire and tell of greatness in a way that is not
                         familiar at all.
                    Dawn Knight's short biography of Indiana University football star
                         George Taliaferro is one of those 
                         books that crosses over into unfamiliar territory and is a pleasure to
                         read. In just under 200 pages Knight relates the wonderful story of a man
                         who in the 1940s and 1950s attended a predominantly white institution of
                         higher learning, was drafted into the U.S. Army, and then returned to 
                              Indiana
                          to play several outstanding seasons and win a national
                         championship. To top it all off, Taliaferro was then drafted into the
                         National Football League.
                    Organized around timeframes beginning with Taliaferro's early life
                         in 
                              Gary
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , and ending with his return to Indiana University first as an
                         assistant to President John Ryan and finally as an instructor in the IU
                         School of Social Work, Knight demonstrates that breaking barriers and
                         overcoming the odds became a way of life for Taliaferro. He used his gifts
                         of athleticism to fight racism and social segregation. He made choices for
                         himself that in the end paid huge dividends.
                    What intrigued me about the book was its straightforward and honest approach.
                         Knight, a high school English teacher, brings a style to the text that
                         makes this a highly recommended read for young men and women interested not
                         just in sports but in life.
                    Knight also presents an excellent discussion of professional
                         football's inability to recognize the talents of African American
                         quarterbacks until well into the 1980s. Most players with prior
                         quarterbacking experience were instead moved to other positions once they
                         reached the NFL, and Knight captures their frustrations. That Tony Dungy,
                         head coach of the Indianapolis Colts and the first African American to
                         coach the winning team in a Super Bowl (XLI), wrote the foreword is ironic.
                         Dungy was himself a star quarterback at the University of Minnesota who,
                         like so many talented African American quarterbacks, was switched to
                         defense after he made it to the pros.
                    As a scientist I would have liked to see more analysis of the tribulations
                         Knight recounts. While she chronicles many of the racial antagonisms
                         Taliaferro and others endured as they struggled to integrate professional
                         football, she fails to contextualize these issues and their impact on the
                         life chances of all African Americans, including the men she writes
                         about.
                    The institution of sport - like its related institutions such as coaching,
                         marketing and the media - mirrors the society we live in and reflects its
                         ills. Connecting these interrelated phenomena would have been
                         important.
                     EARL SMITH is currently the Arnold A. Sio Visiting Professor of
                         Diversity and Community in the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at
                         Colgate University, 
                              Hamilton
                         , 
                              New
                                   York
                         . He is the author of Race, Sport, and the
                              American Dream (2007) and coauthor of African
                              American Families (2007), Women & Minorities
                              in American Professions (1996), and the forthcoming Interracial Intimacies across the Color Line.
               


               
               
                    This Place We Call Home A History of 
                                   Clark
                                        County
                              , 
                                   Indiana
                               By Carl E. Kramer and Mary Kagin Kramer (
                              Bloomington
                         : Indiana University Press, 2007. Pp. xxi, 636. Illustrations,
                         notes, bibliography, index. $35.00.)
                    Carl E. Kramer's meticulous history is particularly strong in
                         tracing the economic development of 
                              Clark
                                   County
                         , 
                              Indiana
                          - most specifically that of 
                              Jeffersonville
                         , the county seat and the author's home town. 
                              Clark
                                   County's
                          economic history was shaped by its proximity to the Falls of
                         the Ohio River. The county's namesake, William Rogers Clark, was
                         one of many early nineteenth-century speculators hoping to build a canal on
                         the north bank, bypassing the falls and thus removing a major
                         transportation obstacle. The canal was ultimately built on the 
                              Kentucky
                          side of the river, causing the county to become more an
                         "economic appendage" of 
                              Louisville
                          than an independent entity. Kramer also does an excellent job
                         of discussing the social life in 
                              Clark
                                   County
                          communities, again focusing particularly on 
                              Jeffersonville
                         .
                    The Civil War changed life in 
                              Clark
                                   County
                          in a major way. Unfortunately, however, the reader is left to
                         wonder about the stories of Confederate sympathizers in the area, most
                         notably Jesse D. Bright, the U. S. Senator from southern 
                              Indiana
                          whose pro-Confederate sympathies led to his expulsion from the
                         senate and the seizure of his property by the federal government.
                         Similarly, the changing political views of 
                              Clark
                                   County's
                          Hoosiers before and during the Civil War could have used more
                         attention. Kramer does not discuss either of these important stories in any
                         meaningful way. However, his discussion of the economic impact of the war
                         on the area is superb. 
                              Jeffersonville
                          became a major center for the Union war effort, gaining a U.
                         S. Quartermaster Corps clothes-making operation and a major hospital for
                         wounded soldiers. After the war, construction of the gigantic
                         Jeffersonville Quartermaster Depot spurred major changes in existing local
                         industries, particularly railroad car-making, ship building, and the cement
                         industry.
                    Kramer likewise ably traces 
                              Clark
                                   County's
                          development as a suburb of 
                              Louisville
                          during the twentieth century. 
                              Jeffersonville
                         , the county seat, and 
                              Clarksville
                         , another primary community in the county, became largely
                         bedroom communities for 
                              Louisville
                         . One shortcoming of the book, though, is that it fails to
                         provide a map of the county in each chapter. While such maps are fairly
                         plentiful early on, a historical map particular to each chapter would have
                         helped readers unfamiliar with the area.
                    County histories are usually hyper-focused on important people and events
                         within the county, mak- ing little or no connection to wider  state or national history. Kramer offers a
                         refreshing break from this typically myopic approach. While the title
                         leaves a bit to be desired, and the 600-plus page length is daunting, this
                         is not just a recounting of cherished provincial myths, but an excellent
                         example of what a county history can be. It is well-written,
                         well-researched, and its assertions are backed with proper evidence and
                         citations. Kramer draws connections to important events in 
                              Indiana
                          history as well as to events in the 
                              Louisville
                          area that had major impacts on the development of the county.
                         As such, he makes a major contribution to the history of southern 
                              Indiana
                         .
                    This book is highly recommended for readers wishing to learn more about the
                         history of 
                              Indiana's
                         
                         Ohio River
                         communities in the 
                              Louisville
                          area.
                     THOMAS M. SPENCER is associate professor of history and director of the
                         Honors Program at Northwest Missouri State University, 
                              Maryville
                         . He is currently editing an anthology of essays about the
                         Mormon conflict in 
                              Missouri
                          during the 1830s and working toward completing a monograph on
                         the subject.
               
               
                    Ordinary People, Extraordinary Courage Men and Women of
                              the Underground Railroad in the 
                                   Indiana
                               and 
                                   Kentucky
                               Borderland Permanent exhibit, Carnegie Center
                         for Art & History, 
                              New
                                   Albany
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         
                    
                         Ordinary People, Extraordinary Courage tells the
                         compelling story of runaway slaves and the people who helped to them make
                         their way across the Ohio
                              River and northward to freedom. Based on Pamela R.
                         Peters's The Underground Railroad in 
                                   Floyd
                                        County
                              , 
                                   Indiana
                               (2001), this is not an expansive exhibit with
                         numerous artifacts on display, but it does not need to be. Its strength
                         lies in its focus on 
                              New
                                   Albany
                          and the city's inhabitants, black and white. To be in
                         this Ohio River
                         city, imagining it as it was during the antebellum and Civil War eras, adds
                         significant meaning to the exhibition. This is local history done well: 
                              New
                                   Albany
                          details give it life while still suggesting the dynamics of
                         other border towns up and down the river.
                    The exhibition begins with a brief overview of American slavery. Timelines
                         list key legislation and legal decisions including such highlights as the
                         1787 Northwest Ordinance's prohibition on slavery, the 1820
                         Missouri Compromise, and the 1851 Indiana Constitution's
                         "Exclusion Act." Antislavery activity in the 1830s  and after gave rise to the term
                         "Underground Railroad," which exhibit text defines as
                         "a spontaneous liberation movement that encompassed a secret
                         network of people - most of whom did not know each other - who actively
                         helped blacks escape bondage in the South." Geography brought
                         these runaways to 
                              New
                                   Albany
                         , which sits across the river from 
                              Louisville
                         , 
                              Kentucky
                         . Once there, runaways were either forcibly returned to their
                         owners or successfully sheltered and sent on their way farther north.
                    The exhibition outlines different ways fugitive slaves crossed the river,
                         discusses the state of race relations within 
                              New
                                   Albany
                         , and describes representative individuals in the community.
                         These include James M. Haines, a white conductor for the New Albany and
                         Salem Railroad, who was thought to have prevented police from searching a
                         train for escaped slaves; Sarah Lucas, an African American arrested for
                         helping a runaway slave; and John Norman, the editor of the New Albany Ledger, who wrote anti-black articles. Labels placed
                         throughout represent various residents' perspectives on events in
                         the city. Each includes a portrait, intended to represent the resident as a
                         historical person, and accompanying first-person narrative expressing that
                         resident's point of view. The text is informative and lively, but
                         visitors need to be aware that these are modern constructions of what a
                         person in such a situation might have thought and looked like - not actual
                         quotations or portraits of the named individuals. Few documents or
                         artifacts are on display. Those that are include 
                              Floyd
                                   County's
                          1853 "Register of Negroes and Mulattoes" and
                         a "Book of Indenture" as well as shackles and a jail cell
                         door. While the exhibition relies heavily on text and images, its text, in
                         particular, is substantive and engaging. We read, for example, about the
                         racial tension that led to violence in July 1862, the role of rail
                         transportation in runaways' escapes, and the influence of the
                         Presbyterian New Albany Theological Seminary.
                    At the end of the exhibition, an interactive video traces the history of
                         slavery, as well as of the antislavery movements, in the border region.
                         Through it, we follow the experiences of Jacob Cummings, who escaped
                         slavery in 
                              Tennessee
                          by making his way north through 
                              New
                                   Albany
                         . Interactive parts of this video then ask us to make decisions
                         that runaways themselves would have had to make: how to cross the river,
                         whom to ask for help, where to hide, and how best to continue to 
                              Canada
                         . In all, as its title indicates, the exhibition successfully
                         conveys the extraordinary courage of the ordinary individuals who
                         participated in the movement against slavery.
                     MATTHEW N. VOSMEIER is associate professor of history at Hanover
                         College, 
                              Hanover
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , and focuses on antebellum politics and culture.
               

               
               
                    The Scratch of a Pen 1763 and the Transformation of
                              North America By Colin G. Calloway (
                              New
                                   York
                         : Oxford University Press, 2006. Pp. xvii, 219. Illustrations,
                         notes, index. $28.00.)
                    In recent years, Colin G. Calloway has distinguished himself as one of the
                         finest synthesizers of Indian and early American history. In New Worlds for All: Indians, Europeans, and the Remaking of Early 
                                   America
                               (1998), he deftly summarized the literature on
                         colonial "middle grounds," while the superb One Vast Winter Count: The Native American West Before Lewis and
                              Clark (2003) narrated more than one thousand years of the history
                         of the American West before 1800. Calloway's new book focuses on
                         the single year of 1763, examining the consequences of the end of the Seven
                         Years War. In Calloway's hands, this seemingly narrow topic
                         becomes an invitation to consider great changes among widely varied
                         populations.
                    In negotiating the Peace of Paris, British leaders elected to retain
                         conquered territory in North America rather than more valuable captured
                         colonies like Guadeloupe or Martinique. That decision, Calloway writes,
                         "set people and events in motion" across much of the
                         continent (p. 15). French subjects in the Illinois Country moved west to
                         territory now nominally under Spanish control, while Spanish subjects in 
                              Florida
                          decamped for the Caribbean. Many Anglo-American colonists,
                         meanwhile, saw the treaty as an invitation to migrate across the Appalachians
                         in search of wealth and land. While British officials struggled to
                         administer their new possession, Native Americans tried to adjust to the
                         more powerful British presence and the withdrawal of a French authority
                         that, for many tribes, had been a valuable economic and political partner.
                         Most famously, the Peace of Paris helped to create the context for the
                         American Revolution, as British efforts to retire the nation's war
                         debt and to control its expanded empire met resistance that eventually grew
                         into an independence movement. Calloway outlines these and other
                         developments in a series of overlapping narratives that manage to combine a
                         continental view with close descriptions of particular individuals and
                         events. While he offers little new analysis of the specific episodes, his
                         approach yields rich comparative writing of a sort rarely produced by
                         academic historians.
                    The heart of Calloway's account is a description of conditions and
                         events in the Old Northwest. For Native Americans in the Ohio Valley and
                         Great Lakes region, 1763 brought new conflicts rather than peace. Tribal
                         leaders had not participated in the treaty negotiations and, while many had
                         allied with the French early in the war, they did not consider themselves
                         defeated. Yet throughout the Northwest in 1763, Native Americans faced new
                         Anglo-American settlers,  unwanted
                         British military posts, and imperial representatives who rejected
                         long-established diplomatic and trade practices in favor of treating the
                         tribes as subject peoples. The result was the armed conflict that Americans
                         used to call "Pontiac's Rebellion," which
                         Calloway refers to here as 
                              America's
                          "First War of Independence." While his
                         treatment of the conflict lacks the interpretive depth of Gregory Evans
                         Dowd's recent War Under Heaven: Pontiac, the Indian
                              Nations, and the British Empire (2002), his placement of
                         Pontiac's War in continental context has considerable value. The
                         Native American struggle for autonomy becomes one part of a larger picture
                         of change and adjustment, inviting comparisons of the decisions made by a
                         wide variety of North American actors, Native and European, famous and
                         lesser-known.
                    The Scratch of a Pen belongs to Oxford University
                         Press's series on Pivotal Moments in American History, and
                         Calloway certainly demonstrates that 1763 represents a turning point every
                         bit as important as the election of 1800 or the Crash of 1929. His work
                         promises to deepen both academic and popular interest in the Seven Years
                         War and eighteenth-century 
                              America
                         .
                     ANDREW DENSON is assistant professor of history at Western Carolina
                         University, 
                              Cullowhee
                         , 
                              North
                                   Carolina
                         , and the author of Demanding the Cherokee Nation:
                              Indian Autonomy and American Culture, 1830-1900 (2004).
               

               
                    Stealing Indian Women Native Slavery in the Illinois
                              Country By Carl J. Ekberg (
                              Urbana
                         : University of Illinois Press, 2007. Pp. xvi, 236.
                         Illustrations, notes, index. $38.00.)
                    In the eighteenth century, boosters of one or another part of colonial North
                         America often claimed that theirs was a "good poor man's
                         country," assertions that historians have sometimes accepted but
                         often contested. In his previous three books on the Illinois Country in the
                         eighteenth century, Carl J. Ekberg has made a strong case that his region
                         was truly North America's best poor man's country. As
                         Ekberg has detailed, the Illinois Country (or what both French and Spanish
                         authorities designated as Upper 
                              Louisiana
                         ) afforded colonists the opportunity to escape the burdens that
                         imperial rule imposed in other parts of North America. Inhabitants also
                         took advantage of available land and excellent soil, producing crops for
                         home consumption and for sale to markets in Lower 
                              Louisiana
                         . Adding to these agricultural attractions were the
                         possibilities for profitable  trade
                         with Indians, with whom the local colonists got along quite peacefully.
                         Even more remarkable was how peaceable their relations were with one
                         another; Ekberg's extensive archival excavations uncovered no
                         evidence of interpersonal violence among them.
                    Stealing Indian Women, which completes Ekberg's
                         quartet of studies on the Illinois Country, reprises some evidence and
                         arguments advanced in his earlier books, but also modifies his previous
                         proposition about Upper 
                              Louisiana's
                          standing as the continent's best poor man's
                         country. With Indian slavery as his topic and the experiences of enslaved
                         Indian women given special attention, Ekberg suggests that while the
                         Illinois Country was a very good country for poor men, the same could not
                         so easily be said for poor women, especially those who found themselves the
                         property of others.
                    The issue of Indian slavery - or more specifically the enslavement of Indians
                         by Europeans-has, as Ekberg notes in the first paragraph of his preface,
                         recently (and belatedly) drawn the attention of historians. Here, Ekberg
                         cites influential work by Allan Gallay and Brett Rushforth, whose studies
                         "tackle Indian slavery, respectively, from the very different
                         English and French perspectives" (p. xi). Surprisingly, Ekberg
                         omits James Brooks from this list, though his work on the trading and
                         raiding networks that stretched across the southern Plains would seem
                         particu- larly important for understanding how and why captured Indian
                         women came into Spanish and French orbits. The omission is telling. In
                         general, Ekberg is less concerned with the original theft from places
                         distant from the Illinois Country than he is with the conditions that
                         enslaved Indian women faced once there.
                    Indeed, the title refers not to the captures that brought Indian women into
                         the Illinois Country, but to an incident in which two enslaved Indian women
                         were stolen away from the Illinois Country. With a mastery of local
                         archives, Ekberg recreates the episode that left one of these women dead
                         and the other freed, albeit separated from her children. If
                         Ekberg's narrative lacks the dramatic punch of Natalie Zemon
                         Davis's The Return of Martin Guerre (from which
                         he drew inspiration), it is nonetheless a revealing work of historical
                         reconstruction. Like his other books on the region, this book tells us a
                         great deal about the worlds that ordinary men and women made together in
                         the middle of North America in the eighteenth century. And with its close
                         examination of how women in particular coped with the trials of
                         enslavement, Stealing Indian Women acknowledges that what
                         made for a good poor man's country did not necessarily make good
                         life for a poor woman.
                     STEPHEN ARON is the executive director of the Institute for the Study
                         of the American West at the Autry National Center and a professor of  history at UCLA. He is the author of
                         numerous articles and books on North American frontiers and the American
                         West, including American Confluence: The Missouri Frontier
                              from Borderland to Border State (2006) and How the
                              West Was Lost: The Transformation of 
                                   Kentucky
                               from Daniel Boone to Henry Clay (1996).
               
               
                    Mr. Jefferson's Hammer William Henry Harrison
                              and the Origins of American Indian Policy By Robert M.
                         Owens (
                              Norman
                         : University of Oklahoma Press, 2007. Pp. xxx, 311.
                         Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $34.95.)
                    William Henry Harrison looms large in 
                              Indiana
                          territorial history. Historian Robert M. Owens's
                         biography follows Harrison's life from the time he entered the
                         Ohio Valley until his brief tenure as President of the United States in
                         1841. Harrison, born of the planter class in 
                              Virginia
                          in 1773, first contemplated a career in medicine and then
                         decided to seek a commission in the army, which he received in 1791. His
                         first major posting was to Fort Washington (
                              Cincinnati
                         ), where he eventually served under General Anthony Wayne, from
                         whom he learned his military and Indian-negotiating skills. The combination
                         of a good military reputation and 
                              Virginia
                          class connections led Harrison to become Secretary of Indiana
                         Territory in 1798, then territorial delegate to Congress, and finally the
                         first governor of Indiana Territory in 1800. This position Harrison held
                         until 1812. Subsequent career moves included Senator from 
                              Ohio
                         , ambassador to 
                              Colombia
                         , and, finally, president.
                    Owens's biography of Harrison concentrates primarily on his years as
                         governor of Indiana Territory. Three main issues preoccupied Harrison
                         during his term: legalizing slavery in the territory, thus overriding
                         Article VI of the Northwest Ordinance, which prohibited slavery; preventing 
                              Illinois
                          from splitting off from 
                              Indiana
                         ; and acquiring Indian land. The slavery issue in particular
                         consumed much of Harrison's time. Believing it nearly impossible
                         to attract Southerners to the territory as long as the practice was
                         disallowed, he sought ways around the ordinance's ban, finally
                         settling on a system that would force many blacks into lifelong
                         indentureships. This plan pitted Harrison and his southern allies against
                         eastern settlers who eventually succeeded in prohibiting any form of
                         slavery in 
                              Indiana
                         . Harrison proved equally unsuccessful in preventing 
                              Illinois
                          from separating from 
                              Indiana
                         ; the new territory was established in 1809.
                    
                    Harrison proved more successful in separating Indians from their lands. By
                         promising various kinds of payment, overriding traditional forms of tribal
                         government, appointing chiefs at will, bribing, pitting tribes and members
                         of tribes against each other, distributing alcohol to induce drunkenness,
                         and creating tribal reservations, Harrison, according to Owens, ushered in
                         the origins of American Indian policy. Such methods, however, had long been
                         a staple of treaty and land negotiations and did not originate with
                         Harrison. He was, of course, only following the orders of President Thomas
                         Jefferson, who, despite lofty pronouncements of good will toward tribal
                         peoples, practiced a brutal policy of tribal land acquisition. Jefferson
                         rationalized these contradictory views with the belief that only by forcing
                         the practice of agriculture - and hence civilization - on Indians could
                         they be saved from racial extinction. In reality, as Owens correctly points
                         out, most of the eastern tribes south of the Great Lakes were primarily
                         farmers and only secondarily hunters. Despite being critical of the policy,
                         the means under which land acquisition was carried out, and the suffering
                         these caused to tribal people, Owens still claims that Harrison, given the
                         political and economic realities of the time, probably acted as fairly as
                         possible. A greater understanding by Owens of Midwestern Indian cultures -
                         especially their social, political, and economic structures - would have
                         made native concerns and suffering more explicit. A fuller account of the
                         effects of dislocation, land loss, and changing economics on tribal
                         politics, factions, and social organizations (kinship, clans, and bands)
                         would have made for a richer work. Still, this book is a very useful
                         addition to early 
                              Indiana
                          history.
                     ROBERT E. BIEDER is professor emeritus, Indiana University,
                         Bloomington. He is the author of Science Encounters the
                              Indian: A Study of the Early Years of American Ethnology (1986);
                              Native American Communities in 
                                   Wisconsin
                              , 1600-1960: A Study of Tradition and Change (1995);
                              Contemplating Others: Cultural Contacts in Red and White 
                                   America
                               (1990); and Bear (2005).
               

               
                    Stephen A. Douglas and the Dilemmas of Democratic
                              Equality By James L. Huston (
                              Lanham
                         , 
                              Md.
                         : Rowman and Littlefield Publishing Group, 2007. Pp. xi, 221.
                         Illustration, notes, bibliographic essay, index. $39.00.)
                    James L. Huston's book presents an intriguing reinterpretation of
                         the life of 
                              Illinois'
                          famous antebellum senator. Huston uses Douglas's life
                         to shed light on America's path from its pre-revolutionary heritage of
                         "hereditary preferment and inequality" to a future based
                         on the then-revolutionary  axioms of
                         human equality (p. vii). This transition, experienced most dramatically in
                         the first half of the nineteenth century, posed difficult dilemmas: which
                         Americans were equal, in what ways were they equal, and how would their
                         equality be maintained? In no small measure, writes Huston, these dilemmas
                         shaped the politics of antebellum 
                              America
                          and the life of Douglas.
                    Huston contends that Douglas's impressive leadership in building the
                         Illinois Democratic Party in the 1830s reflected his strong commitment to a
                         more egalitarian society. The Democrats stood for the equal rights of the
                         people against the special privileges enjoyed by elites. In order to
                         acquire the political power to press for such rights, however, the
                         Democrats needed to create a party organization to express the
                         people's will. This was Douglas's great contribution as
                         an early partisan political leader in 
                              Illinois
                         , and his reward was political preferment and influence.
                    But the politics of egalitarianism quickly became more divisive. As an
                         advocate of commercial development, Douglas differed from those in his
                         party who believed that the promotion of commerce exacerbated class
                         divisions and imperiled democracy. Hence he supported many commercial
                         enterprises - including those that required government support, such as the
                         building of the Illinois Central Railroad in the early 1850s - as long as
                         they promised widespread social benefits. However, Douglas did realize that
                         commercial growth generated sharp disparities in wealth and income. The
                         solution that he and the Democratic Party endorsed in the 1840s was
                         national expansion, which promised cheap land for poor and rich farmers
                         alike. Yet Manifest Destiny likewise challenged egalitarian ideals,
                         primarily because despised non-white inhabitants lived in lands coveted by
                         Americans. Douglas, like almost all Democrats, advocated the expulsion or
                         subordination of such peoples upon acquisition of their territory.
                         Ironically, the Democrats' promotion of equality among white
                         Americans both justified and promoted wider inequality.
                    National expansion also raised the thorny issue of slavery, which profoundly
                         challenged the Democrats' creed of equality. The Mexican-American
                         War left the 
                              United States
                          with a vast domain to settle. Most Southerners desired to
                         plant slavery in the new territories, believing they had a constitutional
                         right to do so; anti-slavery northerners implacably opposed them. This
                         division threatened to rend the Union. Douglas's solution,
                         embodied in the Compromise of 1850, enabled territorial settlers to
                         regulate slavery under the doctrine of popular sovereignty. But popular
                         sovereignty was something of a conundrum. On the one hand it reflected
                         egalitarian ideals, because the people's will decided
                         slavery's fate. On the other, it subsequently legitimized the
                         right of some humans to enslave others in a nation whose  democracy rested on the presumption of
                         equality. Douglas resolved the dilemma by maintaining that non-white races
                         were "utterly incapable of governing themselves" (p. 85).
                         Although northern Democrats, persuaded by this reasoning, considered
                         popular sovereignty a reasonable sectional compromise, most southerners
                         demanded that the federal government protect territorial slavery.
                         Ultimately, Lincoln's election impelled southerners to abandon a
                         Union that they believed disregarded their rights. Ironically, secession
                         thus illustrated the most fundamental dilemma arising from the political
                         creed of equality. Perceiving secession as a destruction of democracy
                         rather than a defense of liberty, Douglas supported the
                         Republicans' effort to maintain the Union by force.
                     GRAHAM A. PECK, associate professor of history at Saint Xavier
                         University, 
                              Chicago
                         , has published articles about Abraham Lincoln and Stephen A.
                         Douglas in the Journal of the Abraham Lincoln
                         Association.
               

               
                    On the Brink The Great Lakes in the 21st
                         Century By Dave Dempsey (
                              East
                                   Lansing
                         : Michigan State University Press, 2004. Pp. xi, 304.
                         Illustrations, notes, index. Paperbound, $24.95.)
                    Dave Dempsey reviews the environmental history of the Great Lakes for the
                         last 200 years of their 10,000-year life. In this brief period human
                         occupation of the region has multiplied many times, creating untold
                         problems and making it an open question if humans will ever be compatible
                         with this environment. Although Dempsey reviews the history of the lakes,
                         the real focus of his book is a plea for their preservation. His final
                         thought is that people must force the responsibility for the preservation
                         of the Great Lakes
                         on their governments.
                    The book starts with a prologue detailing people's love for the
                              Great Lakes.
                         Virtually everyone in the region enjoys recreation on the lakes. Examples
                         of this recreation abound, as do examples of appreciation for lake commerce
                         and for the endless sports opportunities that the lakes provide.
                    Dempsey argues that initial awareness of environmental trouble may have been
                         prompted by the decline of local fish populations - fish that had been
                         providing sustenance for humans for thousands of years. People responded to
                         the problems caused by overfishing by introducing
                         "better" fish, but this has resulted in almost continuous
                         unanticipated change in the ecosystem. In the meantime, industry -
                         stimulated by  and drawn to the lakes
                         by their seemingly unlimited pure water and by the incredible ease and
                         efficiency of transportation - ignored the ecosystem until it was almost
                         destroyed. Only civic action begun in the final decades of the twentieth
                         century has remedied aspects of this destruction.
                    More than anything else, Dempsey's treatment of sewage contamination
                         represents the conflict between the environmentalist's and the
                         historian's point of view. The construction of sewage systems in
                         major cities in the last half of the nineteenth century represented the
                         best scientific knowledge of the day; tens of thousands of lives were saved
                         by the decline in deaths caused by typhoid fever, a point neglected in
                         Dempsey's text. However, like the unanticipated consequences of
                         today's rush to manufacture ethanol, the new sewage systems soon
                         brought problems of their own, overwhelming the capacity of the Great Lakes to dispose
                         of the waste. This problem was only exacerbated by the unwillingness of
                         many governments to address the problem for nearly a half century.
                    With the dawning of the twenty-first century, many people have targeted
                         shipping as the leading environmental problem on the lakes. Species
                         transfer between the oceans and the lakes has become a major issue,
                         although no mention is made here of the hundreds of new species that humans
                         have deliberately introduced to the region. While both environmentalists
                         and recreational boaters have demanded the end of Great Lakes shipping,
                         it seems an environmental impossibility. The non-renewable energy used by
                         lake shipping remains a fraction of the energy used by land-based
                         transportation. Lake shipping also produces far lower greenhouse gas
                         emissions than do the alternatives. The best solutions to problem of the
                         species transfer in ballast water remain in finding ways to treat that
                         water, not in "throwing out the baby with the bath
                         water."
                    Dempsey has written a nice summary of the environmental history of the
                              Great Lakes,
                         with an exceptional list of footnotes providing a collection of
                         contemporary sources for further study. Most readers will agree with him in
                         recognizing the limitations of our political systems today and the
                         necessity for the people themselves to force our governments to preserve
                         the lakes for future generations.
                     STEVE HAROLD is the director of the Manistee County Historical Museum,
                         Michigan, and president of the Association of Great Lakes Maritime His-
                         tory.
               

               
               
                    Lincoln Revisited New Insights from the Lincoln
                              Forum Edited by John Y. Simon, Harold Holzer, and Dawn
                         Vogel (
                              New
                                   York
                         : Fordham University Press, 2007. Pp. vii, 369. Illustrations,
                         notes. $27.95.)
                     This collection of essays was originally presented at the annual Lincoln
                         Forum symposium in 
                              Gettysburg
                          between 2003 and 2005. Although hardly any aspect of
                         Lincoln's life has been left unstudied, these essays show that
                         room remains for interpretation and reassessment. The range of topics is
                         broad, but the essays generally concern the mature Lincoln of the 1850s and
                         the presidency. Readers will find in these selections two directions that
                         have interested scholars in recent years: first, the role of
                         Lincoln's religious thinking in shaping his understanding of the
                         nation and the crises it faced; second, the qualities of Lincoln's
                         leadership, which stemmed naturally from his sensitivity to human behavior
                         and motivation.
                    Three essays attend to the junction of Lincoln's religious and
                         political ideas. Analyzing the 1854 Peoria Address, Joseph R. Fornieri
                         discusses what he calls Lincoln's "biblical
                         republicanism," or "the mutual influence and philosophic
                         harmony between these traditions," (p. 5) which, Fornieri argues,
                         undergirded Lincoln's conviction that political trends in the
                         1850s indicated a rejection of the self-evident truth of equality. Lucas E.
                         Morel argues that Lincoln believed religion was meant to "fulfill
                         a divine purpose between an individual and God" (p. 27). The
                         Second Inaugural Address, in particular, revealed Lincoln's
                         recognition that, as he put it, "there has been a difference of
                         purpose between the Almighty and them" and that Americans needed
                         to reconstruct a Union true to its principles (p. 43). Jean Baker argues
                         that, for both Abraham and Mary Lincoln, personal experiences shaped their
                         religious ideas: the unchurched war president "intensified his
                         belief in God's omnipotence" while Mary,
                         "punished in her cost-benefit acknowledgment of sins,"
                         moved from conventional Protestantism to spiritualism (pp. 106, 113). In a
                         fourth essay, Ronald C. White Jr. also necessarily attends to the influence
                         of Lincoln's religious ideas upon the Second Inaugural
                         Address.
                    Lincoln receives high marks from scholars assessing the character traits and
                         actions that made him a successful war president. Analyzing the events of
                         1862, John E Marszalek contrasts the decisive Lincoln with his commanding
                         general, Henry W. Halleck. Geoffrey Perret compares Lincoln to Ulysses S.
                         Grant, Douglas MacArthur, and John E Kennedy. Craig L. Symonds argues that,
                         in naval affairs, Lincoln gained mastery and effectively used his ability
                         to judge men's character. William Lee Miller looks at the moral
                         underpinnings of Lincoln's decision not to pardon a slave trader.
                         Frank J. Williams  compares President
                         Lincoln's record on civil liberties with the treatment of civil
                         liberties since September 11, 2001. He argues that, while "the
                         verdict of history is that Lincoln's use of power did not
                         constitute abuse," "the full impact of Lincoln's
                         legacy on President Bush is yet to be realized" (pp. 252, 278). In
                         foreign affairs, writes William C. Harris, Lincoln skillfully avoided war
                         with 
                              Great
                                   Britain
                          and 
                              France
                          in the winter of 1864-1865. Jean Edward Smith compares the
                         Lincoln and Grant administrations, finding that Grant's reputation
                         has suffered from past negative interpretations of Reconstruction but that
                         it will improve as "Reconstruction is being reevaluated"
                         (pp. 176, 177, 180).
                    Some scholars explore less-studied topics: John Y. Simon takes on
                         Lincoln's perspective on popular sovereignty and the Mormons in 
                              Utah
                          in 1858; Matthew Pinsker looks at the Soldier's Home,
                         Lincoln's summer refuge; Daniel Mark Epstein explores the possible
                         influence of Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass on
                         Lincoln's writing; Garry Wills analyzes Henry Adams's
                         postwar shift from disdain to admiration for Lincoln. Others revisit
                         classic questions: Harold Holzer discusses Lincoln's Cooper Union
                         address and the presidential campaign of 1860; Michael Vorenberg regards
                         Lincoln's views on race; and Edward Steer Jr. writes on John
                         Wilkes Booth's connections with Confederate agents. In some cases,
                         the subjects presented here have counterparts in monographs, but together,
                         these essays make a useful collection.
                     MATTHEW N. VOSMEIER is associate professor of history at Hanover
                         College in 
                              Hanover
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         .
               

               
                    This Republic of Suffering Death and the American Civil
                              War By Drew Gilpin Faust (
                              New
                                   York
                         : Alfred A. Knopf, 2008. Pp. xviii, 346. Illustrations, notes,
                         index. $27.95.)
                     It may seem difficult to believe that, after the publication of tens of
                         thousands of books on the American Civil War, one could still write a work
                         on the subject packed with information unknown to most students of that
                         war. But Drew Gilpin Faust's This Republic of
                              Suffering surely constitutes such a book. She has chosen to
                         examine the subject of the many deaths incurred on campaign and in camp -
                         how they were counted, how they figured in religion and popular culture,
                         how people coped with them in the practical sense of body recognition and
                         disposal, and how major literary figures of the era wrote about them.
                    One of the important reasons that this subject has remained untreated is the
                         intellectual insularity  of Civil War
                         studies as a field. The new social history inaugurated an interest in the
                         popular conception of death. Many readers will recall the appearance,
                         beginning in the middle of the 1970s, of Philippe Aries's books on
                         attitudes toward death in the Western world. There followed in the field of
                         American colonial history David E. Stannard's The
                              Puritan Way of Death: A Study in Religion, Culture, and Social
                              Change (1977). The inventive Robert V. Bruce wrote a 1981 essay
                         on "Lincoln and the Riddle of Death." But interest in the
                         subject did not result in a comprehensive book-length appraisal in relation
                         to the American Civil War until now.
                    Thanks to Faust, we learn a great deal about death in the Civil War, from
                         embalming to spiritualism and changing views of heaven. She begins by
                         explaining the conventions of the Good Death, detailing how soldiers,
                         civilians, and politicians all strained to lend shape and meaning to the
                         many war deaths by fitting them into that pattern. Once a student of the
                         period reads her clear and readable treatment of the subject, hundreds of
                         Civil War-era letters will never look quite the same again:
                    
                         Letters describing soldiers' last moments
                              on Earth are so similar, it is as if their authors had a checklist in
                              mind. In fact, letter writers understood the elements of the Good
                              Death so explicitly that they could anticipate the information the
                              bereaved would have sought had they been present at the hour of death:
                              the deceased had been conscious of his fate, had demonstrated
                              willingness to accept it, had shown signs of belief in God and in his
                              own salvation, and had left messages and instructive exhortations for
                              those who should have been at his side (p. 17)
                    
                    Even more important ideas come in the last half of the book, where Faust
                         examines religion, cemeteries, and statistics. I think she exaggerates the
                         degree of religious doubt caused by Civil War casualties in the
                         relentlessly pious and evangelical America of the mid-nineteenth century,
                         but she certainly does a splendid and restrainedly fair-minded job of
                         describing and analyzing the opposing, sentimental religious view of death
                         embodied in the widely read work of Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, The Gates Ajar (1869). Faust makes clear that the movement after
                         the war to provide marked graves for all the Civil War dead reflected
                         democratic values new to great wars. No longer was the conflict
                         commemorated merely by a few heroic bronze statues of generals and
                         politicians. The Confederate dead were not included in the Congressional
                         Act of February 1867 "to establish and protect national
                         cemeteries." The corresponding southern memorial movement, then,
                         was much more "a grassroots undertaking that mobilized the white
                         South" (p. 241). As Faust points out, these two sectional
                         movements together  created the
                         powerful national abstraction of the Civil War Dead.
                    Faust's chapter on the now-famous statistics of total deaths
                         resulting from the Civil War is shrewd, carefully pointing out the ways in
                         which casualty figures in after-battle reports might be exaggerated (as a
                         badge of courage) or diminished (to hide the army's true and
                         dangerous condition from the enemy - a tactic of Robert E. Lee's,
                         apparently).
                    Her chapter on religion is the second-longest in the book, but the subject
                         deserves such extended consideration in light of the fact that Civil War
                         casualties were accrued in an era of cultural domination by evangelical
                         Protestantism. I think it is a shame, however, that Faust did not devote a
                         chapter at least as long strictly to the subject of nationalism, since
                         nationalism, as Benedict Anderson has reminded us, has a crucial quality of
                         concern "with death and immortality," and ultimately
                         probably offers the most compelling explanation of the Civil War Dead.
                    MARK E. NEELY JR. is the McCabe-Greer Professor of Civil War History at
                         Pennsylvania State University, University Park. He is the author of
                         numerous books on the Abraham Lincoln and the Civil War, including The Boundaries Of American Political Culture In The Civil War
                              Era (2005), The Union Divided: Party Conflict In The
                              Civil War North (2002), Southern Rights: Political
                              Prisoners And The Myth Of Confederate Constitutionalism (1999),
                         and The Last Best Hope Of Earth: Abraham Lincoln And The
                              Promise Of 
                                   America
                               (1993).
               
               
                    Days of Glory The Army of the Cumberland,
                         1861-1865 By Larry J. Daniel (
                              Baton
                                   Rouge
                         : Louisiana State University Press, 2004. Pp. xviii, 490.
                         $44.95.)
                     Larry J. Daniel's study of the Army of the Cumberland traces the
                         organization's history from its inception in 1861 through the end
                         of the Civil War. Daniel explains his book as "an analysis that
                         focuses primarily on the command level - the personalities of the generals
                         and the dynamics between them" (p. xiii). He points out that this
                         is neither a detailed military history of engagements nor a social history
                         of enlisted men, though he does provide readers with glimpses into the
                         perspectives and experiences of common soldiers. Days of Glory is an
                         important contribution to the expanding literature on the Civil
                         War's western theater.
                    Daniel presents vivid portraits of the men chosen to lead the Army of the
                         Cumberland, also known early in the war as the Army of the Ohio. He
                         demonstrates the physical and mental debacles experienced by early army
                         commanders Robert Anderson, hero of Fort Sumter, and the well-known  Union general William Tecumseh
                         Sherman. Daniel likewise analyzes the leadership of Don Carlos Buell and
                         William S. Rosecrans. Both commanded the army for substantial periods of
                         time and experienced considerable success, though ultimately each was
                         removed due to poor leadership. Long-serving George H. Thomas did not
                         officially become the commander of the army until relatively late in the
                         war, but Daniel shows Thomas's influence on the army throughout
                         its history.
                    Daniel astutely reveals how personal relationships between commanders and
                         their subordinate officers affected the successes and failures of the Army
                         of the Cumberland. He provides numerous examples of times when personal
                         antagonisms among the army's top officers hindered its
                         performance. He also takes readers into the middle of arguments between
                         army commanders and the Lincoln administration - especially on the
                         objective of driving the Confederates from Unionist East Tennessee - and
                         places the Army of the Cumberland into the context of the wider Union war
                         effort.
                    In a time of great uncertainty, the army's commanders led thousands
                         of enlisted men and officers who often had very different views on the
                         politics and goals of the Union cause. Daniel chronicles the heavy
                         influence of politically conservative officers from 
                              Kentucky
                          upon the army in its early years. As the war progressed,
                         however, this group gradually lost influence, and the army was assailed by
                         competing political forces from within and without. In this way, Daniel
                         demonstrates the influence of national and state politics on the
                         army's performance.
                    Daniel accomplishes the goals he established for this study. His book
                         reflects diligent and extensive research, and he addresses substantial
                         issues in Civil War scholarship with a clear prose and engaging style that
                         make this a very enjoyable book to read. Daniel has crafted a fine study
                         that will be of interest to general readers and to academic and public
                         history professionals alike.
                    Days of Glory has particular relevance for individuals
                         interested in learning more about the roles of 
                              Indiana
                          soldiers during the Civil War. Numerous regiments from the
                         state fought with the Army of the Cumberland in battles in 
                              Kentucky
                         , 
                              Tennessee
                         , and 
                              Georgia
                         . Daniel's work offers an overview of the time they
                         spent in camp, on the march, and in battles, and provides great insight
                         into the leaders under whom they served.
                    MIRANDA L. FRALEY is the director of Curatorial Interpretive Planning
                         at the Tennessee State Museum in 
                              Nashville
                         . In addition to curating exhibits and writing interpretive
                         literature, her work has appeared in publications such as the Tennessee Historical Quarterly and the Indiana
                              Magazine of History. Current research projects include a
                         community study of 
                              Lexington
                         , 
                              Tennessee
                         .
               


               
               
                    
                         Contested Borderland The Civil War in Appalachian 
                                   Kentucky
                               and 
                                   Virginia
                               By Brian D. McKnight (
                              Lexington
                         : University Press of Kentucky, 2006. Pp. ix, 312.
                         Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $40.00.)
                     Historians have virtually ignored the Civil War in Appalachian 
                              Kentucky
                          and 
                              Virginia
                         . Although a few recent works have appeared on the subject, no
                         one has attempted to present a comprehensive examination of the era in
                         those mountain highlands. The Civil War in Appalachia does not evoke images
                         of dashing military leaders, great tactical confrontations between huge
                         armies, or logistically complex campaigns. No historical "what
                         ifs" arose from the fighting that took place in those mountains.
                         Instead, it remains a blur, nothing more than a backwater of the larger
                         Civil War.
                    Brian D. McKnight has made a valiant and mostly successful attempt to rescue
                         the story of the Civil War in the 
                              Kentucky
                          and 
                              Virginia
                          highlands. Based upon a wealth of new and rarely used
                         manuscript material, Contested Borderland explores the
                         social, political, and military complexities of the Civil War in a region
                         of the country that was - and in some respects, remains - remote, subject
                         to neither political nor social definition.
                    The presence, in the early years of the Civil War, of two armies only added
                         to the complex chemistry of the Appalachian highlands. As McKnight amply
                         illustrates, highlanders were "trapped between two armies, both of
                         which insisted on their loyalty." One of those armies would,
                         McKnight points out, "drive the other out of the region,"
                         resulting in "retribution on those who had guessed
                         incorrectly." The mountaineers of the region - whose loyalties to
                         any organization or institution were questionable even without a civil war
                         - thus struggled to survive the conflict as it grew more and more
                         bitter.
                    As McKnight illustrates, while the Confederate generals who commanded troops
                         in the 
                              Kentucky
                          and 
                              Virginia
                          mountains - Humphrey Marshall, William Preston, John C.
                         Breckinridge, and John Hunt Morgan - were all Kentuckians, they had little
                         knowledge of the mountains or mountaineers and were never able to win the
                         support of the indigenous people. McKnight highlights the great Confederate
                         strategic operations that affected the mountains: General Felix
                         Zollicoffer's early campaign; General Edmund Kirby
                         Smith's August 1862 invasion from 
                              Knoxville
                         , 
                              Tennessee
                         , through the southeastern mountains to 
                              Richmond
                          and 
                              Lexington
                         , 
                              Kentucky
                         ; John Hunt Morgan's brief incursion in the summer of
                         1864 through the mountains and into central 
                              Kentucky
                         . He also explores the operations of Union Generals William
                         "Bull" Nelson, James G. Garfield,  Stephen G. Burbridge, and George W. Morgan
                         into the 
                              Kentucky
                          and 
                              Virginia
                          highlands. McKnight's discussion of the
                         latter's often overlooked occupation and abrupt evacuation of
                              Cumberland
                              Gap is particularly welcome.
                    In the end, McKnight illustrates that time and numbers were on the Union
                         side. Pro-Union sentiment grew with every foothold Northern forces gained
                         in the region. Inexorably, they occupied more and more "contested
                         borderland," including east 
                              Tennessee
                         , and that made the critical difference. Confederate attempts
                         to prove that they could control the region repeatedly came to grief. Yet
                         as the region became more pro-Union, Confederate efforts only grew more
                         desperate and the fighting more bitter.
                    As the only modern, comprehensive examination of the Civil War era in the
                         mountain highlands of 
                              Kentucky
                          and 
                              Virginia
                         , McKnight's book makes a wonderful contribution to
                         Civil War history. It is a well-researched work, designed to introduce the
                         reader to that geographic area and the impact of the war on it. The only
                         missing element is a discussion of the region's geographical
                         features, including some examination of the differences between
                         southeastern 
                              Kentucky
                          and southwestern 
                              Virginia
                          (such as road and railroad improvements, or lack thereof, in
                         the two areas). Coupled with some discussion of how and by whom the region
                         was settled, this might have added to a greater understanding of the
                         political positions taken by the people of the region during the Civil War.
                         With that said, I heartily recommend the book. Contested
                              Borderland is a fine narrative history of a complex subject in a
                         very complex region, and I hope it spawns more scholarship on the highland
                         region during the Civil War.
                    KENT MASTERSON BROWN is an attorney practicing in 
                              Lexington
                         , 
                              Kentucky
                         , and 
                              Washington, D. C.
                         , who has published numerous books on Civil War history,
                         including Retreat from Gettysburg: Lee, Logistics and the 
                                   Pennsylvania
                               Campaign (2005). He has also written scholarly
                         articles and written and produced documentary films on Civil War history
                         for public television.
               

               
               
                    Mennonites, Amish, and the American Civil War By
                         James O. Lehman and Steven M. Nolt (
                              Baltimore
                         : Johns Hopkins University Press, 2007. Pp. xi, 353.
                         Illustrations, bibliography, notes, index. $39.95.)
                     In the past few years the religious aspects of the American Civil War have
                         become the subject of considerable interest. Harry S. Stout and Mark A.
                         Noll have explored the war's theological and moral dimensions, and
                         William Lee Miller has reminded us that Abraham Lincoln is one of the most
                         profound moralists and ethicists that the 
                              United States
                          has ever produced. James O. Lehman and Steven M. Nolt take
                         this discussion in a somewhat different direction, examining the dilemma of
                         German sectarians who lived in both Union and Confederate territory and
                         were committed to nonviolence, pacifism, and antislavery. The
                         authors' conclusions hold some surprises.
                    In 1860, American Mennonites and Amish, numbering about forty thousand,
                         shared a common theological ancestry reaching back to seventeenth-century 
                              Switzerland
                          and Rhineland 
                              Germany
                         . But they were divided into an almost incomprehensible welter
                         of sects and persuasions that reflected different dates of migration to the 
                              United States
                          and different responses to modernity. Most, however, shared a
                         sense of separation from the larger world, based on preservation of German
                         language and folkways and a sense that they were called to be separate from
                         "the world."
                    Nevertheless, when the war came, Mennonites and Amish had to respond, and
                         Lehman and Nolt find considerable diversity in their responses. Many were
                         voters, and one of the authors' most fascinating findings is that
                         Amish and Mennonite voting tended to reflect that of their neighbors. For
                         example, Amish and Mennonites in 
                              Holmes
                                   County
                         , 
                              Ohio
                         , which became notorious for violent resistance to emancipation
                         and the draft, tended to vote Democratic. In contrast, those in 
                              LaGrange
                                   County
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         , a Republican stronghold, voted Republican. Similarly, in the
                         Shenandoah Valley of 
                              Virginia
                         , Mennonites in 
                              Augusta
                                   County
                         , which went strongly for John Bell in 1860, were unionist.
                         Neighboring 
                              Rockingham
                                   County
                         , however, less strongly unionist, was home to some Mennonites
                         who actively supported the Confederate cause.
                    Most Amish and Mennonites tried to remain true to pacifist convictions and
                         refused military service. Unlike the Quakers, who saw hiring substitutes or
                         paying commutation fees as a compromise of principle, Amish and Mennonites
                         did so without complaint. They were not reluctant to use ties with
                         politicians like 
                              Pennsylvania
                          Representative Thaddeus Stevens to their advantage, or to
                         remind such politicians that the  Amish
                         and Mennonites represented a potentially critical voting bloc in the
                         closely divided states of 
                              Indiana
                         , 
                              Ohio
                         , and 
                              Pennsylvania
                         . The experiences of 
                              Virginia
                          Mennonites were more difficult. Suspicions of Union sympathies
                         dogged them, but when Union General Philip H. Sheridan devastated the
                         Shenandoah in the autumn of 1864,
                         Mennonites suffered as much as their pro-Confederate neighbors. Some young
                         men even departed from the faith, enlisting in the Union army in a number
                         of cases, and, in a few others, fighting for the Confederacy as well.
                    This is an impressive work in every way: gracefully written, broadly
                         researched, careful and measured in its conclusions. It is likely to become
                         the definitive work on its subject.
                    THOMAS D. HAMM is archivist and professor of history at Earlham College
                         in 
                              Richmond
                         , 
                              Indiana
                         . He has written extensively on the history of American
                         Quakerism.
               


          
          
               
               
               
               
               
          
     
