
      ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 105, Issue 2, pages 119-197. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:105+issue:2+year:2009&browseMode=source
    
      ----FULL TEXT----
        
          
               
               
               
               
               
               

          
          

          
               

               
                    EDITOR'S NOTE

                    In 1933, Thomas Hart Benton completed a remarkable cycle of
                         murals for the 
                              Indiana
                          pavilion at the 
                              Chicago
                          Century of Progress International Exposition. Today, thanks to
                         the efforts of Indiana University president Herman B Wells, those murals
                         grace the IU campus in 
                              Bloomington
                         , where they have been subject both to admiration and to
                         controversy.
                    In April 2008, IU commemorated the anniversary of the Benton murals with a
                         public symposium, "Thomas Hart Benton's 
                              Indiana
                          Murals at 75: Public Art and the Public University."
                         In this special issue of the IMH, edited by Kathryn
                         Lofton and Matthew Pratt Guterl, we bring together many of the scholars who
                         spoke at that session to consid- er the larger significance of the 
                              Indiana
                          Murals: for art, for American cul- ture, for IU's own
                         history.
                    The event, and this issue, were made possible by support from the Indiana
                         University College Arts and Humanities Institute, the IU American Studies
                         Program, the IU Office of the Provost, the IU Art Museum, the IU
                         Foundation, the IU Auditorium, and the Efroymson Fund. The conference
                         planning committee included Nanette Brewer, the Lucienne M. Glaubinger
                         Curator of Works on Paper, Indiana University Art Museum; Jeremy Efroymson,
                         Executive Director, Midwest Museum of Contemporary Art (MiCo); Matthew
                         Pratt Guterl, Director of American Studies and Associate Professor of
                         African American & African Diaspora Studies; Frederic Lieber,
                         Adjunct Assistant Professor of Education; Amy Walker, Architectural
                         Historian, 
                              Indiana
                          Department of Natural Resources-Division of Historic,
                         Preservation and Archaeology; and IMH editor Eric
                         Sandweiss.
                    --ES
                    
                    
                         Thomas Hart Benton at work in an Indiana University
                              classroom, 1941. Courtesy IU Archives.
                    
               
               
               
                     Introduction: The Benton Murals of 
                              Indiana
                         
                    

                    KATHRYN LOFTON
                    MATTHEW PRATT GUTERL

                    
                         "History was not a scholarly study for me but a drama"
                              Thomas Hart Benton, "A Dream Fulfilled" (1933)1
                    

                    In 1933, an ambitious muralist, Thomas Hart Benton
                         (1889-1975), rapidly completed an enormous cycle for the 
                              Indiana
                          Hall at the 
                              
                                   Chicago
                          Century of Progress International Exposition. Even in an era
                         distinguished by the work of such great muralists as Jose Orozco, Aaron
                         Douglas, and Diego Rivera, Benton's 
                              Indiana
                          project stood out for its mammoth scale, its political temper,
                         and its artistic impact. The artist's notoriety in the wake of the
                         appearance of the 
                              Indiana
                          Murals landed him on the cover of Time
                         magazine. He went on to become one of the nation's most respected
                         and influential artists, completing a lengthy series of sweeping historical
                         murals elsewhere. But he would never repeat the speed, scale, and intensity
                         of the 
                              Indiana
                          Murals project.
                    With the closing of the fair, Benton's twenty-two panels disap-
                         peared. The exposition was a fleeting event, and so much of what seemed
                         important in 1933 was simply packed up and stored away or discarded. It
                         might have been that way for the 
                         
                              Indiana
                          
                         Murals, and they 
                         
                               Kathryn Lofton is an assistant professor of American Studies
                                   and Religious Studies at Yale University. Matthew Pratt Guterl is
                                   Director of American Studies and Associate Professor of African
                                   American & African Diaspora Studies at Indiana
                                   University, 
                                   
                                        
                                             Bloomington
                                        
                                   . 
                              
                              
                                   1 Cited in Kathleen A. Foster, Nanette Esseck
                                   Brewer, and Margaret Contompasis, Thomas Hart Benton
                                        and the 
                                        
                                             
                                                  Indiana
                                             
                                         Murals (
                                   
                                        
                                             Bloomington
                                        
                                   , 
                                   
                                        
                                             Ind.
                                        
                                   
                                   , 2000), facing p. 32. 
                              
                         
                          might never have resurfaced, except
                         that a few years later Indiana University president Herman B Wells tracked
                         them down, plucking them from the Manufacturer's Building at the 
                         
                              Indiana
                          
                         State Fairgrounds. A self-styled visionary responsible for the 
                         
                              
                                   Bloomington
                              
                          campus's grandiose Fine Arts Plaza, Wells hoped to
                         make the installation of the mural panels at IU a central feature in his
                         campaign to expand and beau- tify the campus. But the panels were so
                         enormous, so tall and wide, that no single building on campus could display
                         them simultaneously. Since 1940, then, the great bulk of the mural panels
                         have been broken apart. What was shown in 
                              Chicago
                          as an unbroken line of Regionalist history is now split into
                         three discrete venues: the IU Auditorium, the University Theater, and a
                         classroom in Woodburn Hall. Controversial in their day, they serve even now
                         as the focus for continued dispute.
                    Today, the controversial aspect of the mural sequence has little to do with
                         its rough-hewn women or its dignified working folks. It has everything to
                         do, however, with a single feature of one panel--Cultural panel 10,
                         "Parks, the Circus, the Klan, the Press," or
                         "the Klan mural," as it is colloquially known on the 
                         
                              
                                   Bloomington
                              
                          campus. There, Benton set a cross burning in the background of
                         the panel--the tawdry 
                         
                              Indiana
                          past, fading to memory--and prominently foregrounded a
                         hospital scene, with an attentive white nurse providing a meal to a black
                         child in an integrated hospital. [see plate 9] The juxtaposition and
                         placement encouraged interpretive ambiguity. And, thinking nationally,
                         other cam- puses house far more troublesome artworks--the Tiffany window
                         extolling the Confederacy in Ventress Hall on the Ole Miss campus, for
                         instance, or Dartmouth College's Hovey murals, representing rum-
                         drunk Native Americans. Still, the mere presence of a burning cross in a
                         public classroom has encouraged generations of students to sit-in, to
                         march, to vandalize, or to petition for the removal of this particular
                         panel.
                    If you look at the murals today, situated unceremoniously in uni- versity
                         buildings, it seems hard to imagine that they could cause so much trouble.
                         From Benton's perspective, though, it was no surprise:
                         "it could well appear that my interest in art has been largely
                         absorbed by problems."2 Benton's life
                         story swells with belligerence and dispute, 
                              
                                   2Thomas Hart Benton, An American
                                   in Art: A Professional and Technical Autobiography (
                                   
                                        
                                             Lawrence
                                        
                                   , 
                                   
                                        
                                             Kan.
                                   , 1969), 75. Also see Foster, et al., 
                                        Thomas Hart Benton and the 
                                        
                                             
                                                  Indiana
                                         Murals. 
                         
                          including decisions to withdraw work,
                         fights with other artists over their work, and adamant political stands. As
                         art historian Henry Adams writes, "from childhood Thomas Hart
                         Benton was constantly engaged in controversy."3 Adams and others describe Benton's artistic
                         production as a problematic in the history of twentieth-century visual
                         expression. This vexing narrative location has received extensive treatment
                         by scholars intrigued by Benton's chronological and social
                         positioning within the aesthetic and political histories of the 1920s and
                         1930s. Despite his profligacy, despite his fame during his lifetime, and
                         despite his connec- tions amidst the American avant-garde,
                         Benton's location within the canon--indeed, any canon--seems
                         indeterminate. Enduring praise of his work emphasizes his starring role in
                         the history of Regionalism; more critical appraisals note his loyalty to
                         figuration, his use of religious themes, and his nostalgic celebration of
                         the American past as reasons to exclude him from laudatory histories of
                         modern art. "In the middle of the Machine Age he based his style
                         on organic rhythms," writes one observer, "just as 
                              New
                                   York
                          was emerging as an art capital he moved to the Midwest; and
                         during the triumph of abstraction he continued to be
                              figurative."4 Depending on which story
                         you consult, Benton has been called provincial, academic, leftist,
                         sectionalist, Regionalist, Modernist, reactionary, cloying, abstract,
                         anti-intellectual, even fascist.5
                     All of these labels suggest that no matter what Benton was or was not, he is
                         someone about whom we cannot seem to stop talking. Who is this man who made
                         such trouble? Thomas Hart Benton was the son of a con- gressman, and
                         namesake grandnephew of a Free-Soiler senator. His art training began in
                         his teenage years, when he took Saturday morning class- es at the Corcoran
                         Gallery in 
                              Washington, D.C.
                         , while his father sat in Congress, before enrolling at the 
                              Chicago
                          Art Institute in February 1907. There, his childhood delight
                         in the historical paintings and murals hung in the Capitol Rotunda and
                         Library of Congress joined new admiration for Japanese prints, pen-and-ink
                         drawings by the Spanish illustrator Daniel 
                              
                                   3Henry Adams, Thomas Hart
                                        Benton: Drawing from Life (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1990), 12. 
                              
                                   4Elizabeth Broun, "Thomas Hart
                                   Benton: A Politician in Art," Smithsonian
                                        Studies in American Art, 1 (Spring 1987), 59. 
                              
                                   5Matthew Baigell, "Thomas Hart
                                   Benton and the Left," Thomas Hart Benton:
                                        Artist, Writer and Intellectual, R. Douglas Hurt and
                                   Mary K. Dains, eds. ( 
                                        Columbia
                                   , 
                                        Mo.
                                   , 1989), 1-34; Robert L. Gambone, "Religious
                                   Motifs in the Work of Thomas Hart Benton," Ibid., 65-94;
                                   Douglas Wixson, "Thomas Hart Benton's 
                                        New
                                             York
                                    Years," Ibid., 191-218. 
                         
                          Vierge, and paintings by Frans Hals
                         and Diego Velazquez. In mid-August 1908, Benton traveled to 
                              Paris
                         , where he began coursework at the Académie Julian and,
                         subsequently, the Académie Collarossi; it was there that he first divided
                         his interests "between opposed and contradictory styles of
                         painting," as he would write in his autobiography.6 He studied Impressionism and Pointillism; he learned about the
                         genius of Paul Cezanne; he took courses from the French history painter
                         Jean-Paul Laurens as well as Neo-Impressionist Paul Signac, master of the
                         spectral palette. While in 
                              France
                          , he briefly left 
                              Paris
                          so that he could "forget all theories, return to
                         painting directly from nature, and see if I could produce any finished
                              pictures."7 He did finish some,
                         participating in the 1911 Spring Salon, before returning to 
                              America
                          in July 1911, when he ran out of money.
                    Back in the 
                              United States
                         , Benton prowled for work in 
                              Missouri
                          and then, in 1912, moved to 
                              New York
                                   City
                         , where he would live for twenty-three years. Joining the 
                              New
                                   York
                          art scene at the moment of the 1913 Armory Show, Benton began
                         attending meetings of the Socialist- oriented People's Art Guild,
                         showing annually at the Architectural League, and also associating with the
                         artistic circles of Alfred Stieglitz and John Weischel. To earn money, he
                         did commercial work, such as designing panels for a Coney Island dancing pavilion and supplying dec- orative pieces for other
                         public spaces; he painted scene backdrops for movies; and he taught drawing
                         classes for adults in one of the Chelsea public schools. During World War
                         I, Benton served as an architectural draftsman at the 
                         
                              
                                   Norfolk
                              
                          
                         Naval Base. Throughout this time, Benton grazed manifold
                         trends, including Synchromism--a coloristic school of painting invented by
                         Canadian scientist-artist Percyval Tudor-Hart--but also conducted close
                         readings of Michelangelo's sculptural structures and
                         Tintoretto's Last Supper. "It took me
                         eleven years to go through my first phase and dig a method out of the
                         artistic jungles of my time," Benton would write. "It
                         would take some seven or eight more to explore the second phase and make it
                         serviceable for expressing the meanings that my experiences in American
                         life were to provide."8
                     In 1923 he began his history paintings, finishing the first chapter of The American Historical Epic in 1924. This turn in his
                         work encour- 
                              6Benton, An American in
                                        Art, 16.
                              7Ibid., 24.
                              8Ibid., 50.
                         
                          aged commissions, as Benton became
                         associated with large works of public art. Around the same time, Benton
                         went home to the bedside of his dying father, where he reconnected, in his
                         later retelling, with the land and relationships of his boyhood. As he made
                         money from his 
                              New
                                   York
                          work, Benton used it to fund trips to the West--the Ozarks, West 
                              Texas
                         , 
                              New
                                   Mexico
                         , anywhere he could pursue the American panorama. The drawings
                         he created from his Ozark hike supplied material for a winter 1926-1927 show
                         at the Daniel Galleries in 
                              New York
                                   City
                         . This exhibition baptized Benton as the leading Regionalist
                              artist.9 Benton's contribution to this
                         aesthetic included an emphasis on a strain of demo- cratic liberalism
                         deeply sympathetic to the sorts of policies legislated by the New Deal.
                         When 
                              
                                   America
                               Today was unveiled at the New School for Social
                         Research in 1930, Benton moved into the heyday of his talent,
                         "which was the application of my methods, by now thoroughly under
                         control, to the scenes, behaviors, and mythologies of American
                              life."10
                    
                    This emphasis on Americana and public art murals obscures Benton's
                         role in the foundations of abstraction. During his teaching years at the
                         Arts Students League of 
                              New
                                   York
                          (1926-1935), Benton not only taught a young Jackson Pollock,
                         but also authored "Mechanics of Form Organization in
                         Painting," published between 1926 and 1927 in The
                              Arts, a series of influential scholarly articles. Scholars
                         reviewing those diagrammatic mechanics have said that in their rendering
                         "it is as though Benton's ... luridly sentimental
                         subjects have been 'stripped bare' to reveal their
                         modernist heart."11 The New School mural and
                         his- tory paintings were, for some critics, a revolution in painting,
                         combining figuration and expressionist painterly style. But Benton would
                         constant- ly endure scathing criticism for his subsequent productions and
                         for his political loyalty to liberalism over and against more idealist
                         social visions. Benton's commitment to the American producer
                         tradition, for example, put him in conflict with the communists, whose
                         utopianism 
                              
                                   9Regionalism referred to the work of a set of
                                   Depression-era painters including John Steuart Curry and Grant
                                   Wood committed to a naturalistic depiction of Midwest small-town,
                                   rural life, depictions which exploded the flat myth of a pioneer
                                   idyll. 
                              
                                   10Benton, An American in
                                        Art, 66. 
                              
                                   11Barbara Jaffee, "Jackson
                                   Pollock's Industrial Expressionism," Art Journal, 63 (Winter 2004), 70; Francis V.
                                   O'Connor, "The Genesis of Jackson Pollock:
                                   1912-1943," Artforum, 5 (May 1967),
                                   16-23; Stephen Polcari, "Jackson Pollock and Thomas Hart
                                   Benton," Arts Magazine, 53 (March
                                   1979), 120-24. 
                         
                          demanded didactic art that
                         represented the struggles of the workers.12 As Erika
                         Doss writes in this issue, "the 
                              Indiana
                          Mural, which Benton paint- ed soon after ... Roosevelt was
                         elected in 1932 ... embodies Benton's efforts to espouse the
                         liberal politics of the New Deal through the mod- ern art of
                         Regionalism" (p. 128). 
                     The "Social History of the State of 
                              Indiana
                          " arrived on Benton's workbench, then, just
                         as his reputation, notorious and celebrated, hit its peak. Solicited by the
                         state to paint the mural for display at the 
                              Chicago
                          World's Fair of 1933, Benton relocated to 
                              Indianapolis
                          in 1932 to begin the commission. He read books, visited the
                         state library, and, in 1933, with only five months to complete the project,
                         began to tour southern 
                              Indiana
                         , guided by H. K. Roberts, chief of maintenance for the
                         state's conservation department. After assembling a set of
                         archival materials and notes from his travels, Benton retreated to the
                         empty dance hall on South Delaware Street in 
                              Indianapolis
                          that served as his studio. There, a large crew of assistants
                         from the Herron School of Art and the state conservation department joined
                         in the process of assembling his two-prong, chronological tale of 
                              Indiana
                          history. "These murals," Joy S. Kasson
                         reminds us in her essay, "took their viewers on a walk through
                         history in order to look toward the future" (p. 140). On the one
                         side, cultural history was retold; on the other, industrial history was
                         pictorially related, rolling in opposite directions around the room and
                         meeting in a montage of civilization in the machine age. The effect was
                         meant to be dizzying, but reassuring, too. 
                     From a distance, the murals seem charming, slashes of Technicolor in gray
                         institutional spaces. The oversized figures, with their oversized features,
                         enduring outsized wind, rain, smoke, waves, sunshine, and heavy, unceasing
                         toil, seem merrily reposed. "But for Benton," as one
                         later observer explains, "history is a passage and a movement; he
                         tries to give his works the narrative power of literature .... Figure bends
                         to fig- ure, scene yields to scene, and as one's eye wanders, led
                         onward by the sequence of forms, group harmonies dissolve and refocus. In
                         the way Benton's humans and machines contort as they near each
                         other, there is almost relativity, a special gravity that distorts
                         pictorial space."13 The 
                              Indiana
                          Murals stirred criticism and praise because of this movement
                              
                              
                                   12Erika Doss, Benton, Pollock,
                                        and the Politics of Modernism: From Regionalism to Abstract
                                        Expressionism ( 
                                        Chicago
                                    , 1991). 
                              
                                   13Verlyn Klinkenborg, "Thomas Hart
                                   Benton Came from 
                                        Missouri
                                    --and He Showed 'em," Smithsonian, 20 (April 1989), 87-88. 
                         
                          and repose; viewers could not decide
                         just what Benton was trying to say with all that contortion and light. Many 
                              Indiana
                          artists were predisposed to reject work done by an artist not
                         from 
                              Indiana
                          . Modernist critics dis- paraged his realism, while
                         conservatives agonized over the unappealing contours of his human
                         subjects' faces and bodies. Some viewers saw socialist overtones,
                         while others judged his rendition of the Klan too kind. Fair visitors and
                         subsequent commentators on the work claimed that it was either too
                         expressive or not celebratory enough; either overly descriptive or
                         anemically symbolic. These questions continue to haunt viewers of the mural
                         panels, but we are now also more closely attuned-- or able to talk
                         about--other concerns, such as the role of race in Benton's
                         Hoosier imaginary, unpacked here by Austen Barron Bailly, or the
                         mural's compelling narrative of melodrama, illuminated by Casey
                         Nelson Blake.
                     Following the fair, there was some talk, quickly dismissed, of trans-
                         porting the murals for installation in the 
                              Indiana
                          State House. Instead, though, they went into storage in the
                         Manufacturer's Building at the 
                              Indiana
                          State Fairgrounds, where they were rescued by Harry Engel, a
                         professor of painting in the Fine Arts Department at Indiana University;
                         Herman B Wells, the university's new president; and W G. Biddle,
                         the comptroller. It is this story--and the work of the institutional man at
                         its heart--that James Capshew tells here. The placement of the murals in a
                         university setting pleased Benton. Reflecting on his time in 
                              Paris
                          , Benton wrote: 
                              There were no movies, no radios or other inexpensive sources of
                                   entertainment, so the habit of reading was widespread--much more
                                   so than in student circles of today, where it is rare to find a
                                   young artist who has information beyond that provided by the
                                   "arty-critiky" columns of the current
                                   newspapers or weeklies. Neophyte artists devoured books and
                                   attended Saturday morning lectures at the Sorbonne. They
                                   concocted theories, sought histor- ical justifications for these,
                                   and the studios and cafes rang with arguments. Few painters took
                                   their easels before nature without ideas to test or exploit.
                                   Though most of these were immature and half-baked, some even
                                   ludicrous, they arose from a genuine and lively spirit of
                                   enquiry. And they fed a constant urge toward new and novel
                                        experimentation.14
                         
                         
                              
                                   14Benton, An American in
                                        Art, 20-21. 
                         
                          As the essays in this issue attest,
                         the Benton murals experiment with ideas of democracy, production, and human
                         ingenuity. Through contin- ued study and examination of their complexity,
                         students today and in the future may concoct their own theories,
                         experimental and figurative, abstract and applied, for their school, their
                         state, and their country. 
               
               
               
                     Action, Agency, Affect: Thomas Hart Benton's Hoosier History 
                    ERIKA DOSS
                    My longstanding interests as a cultural historian have
                         repeatedly turned to issues of public popularity: to how and why certain
                         kinds or styles of art become popular among the American public, how public
                         tastes and preferences change, and how public popularity has affected and
                         continues to affect the course of 
                              America
                          's visual cultures. By extension, they have focused
                         on issues of cultural conflict and con- troversy--issues that are
                         especially relevant in the story of Thomas Hart Benton's 1933
                         mural, A Social History of the State of 
                                   Indiana
                              . 
                     Benton was the leader of the Regionalist art movement, a strain of American
                         art that dominated from the late 1920s through the early 1940s, or the era
                         of the Great Depression. He was probably the best- known American artist of
                         the era: depicted on the cover of Time maga- zine in
                         December 1934; often covered in the pages of Life
                         magazine and other popular periodicals; and even selected in 1940 by the
                         Divorce Reform League as one of 
                              America
                          's "best husbands" (along with
                         President Franklin Delano Roosevelt).1
                         Benton's brand of Regionalism 
                               Erika Doss is professor in the Department of American Studies
                                   at the University of Notre Dame. This essay is adapted from her
                                   keynote address given at the conference "Thomas Hart
                                   Benton's 
                                        Indiana
                                    Murals at 75: Public Art and the Public
                                   University," Indiana University, April 26, 2007. 
                              
                                   1Henry Adams, Thomas Hart
                                        Benton: An American Original ( 
                                        New
                                             York
                                    , 1989), 299. 
                         
                          was a narrative, anecdotal style of
                         modern art rooted in the specific social and political conditions of the
                         interwar era. Benton was adamant about creating a uniquely American art
                         rooted in American life and leg- end: a style of art fixed on the American
                         Scene and, as Benton painted it in his murals of the 1930s, focused on a
                         dynamic national landscape of hard-working men and liberal political
                         reform. 
                     Throughout the years of the Great Depression, Benton's national
                         imaginary--his visual articulation of the 
                              America
                          he imagined and desired--was shaped around his personal
                         political convictions regarding democratic liberalism and in particular,
                         support for the 1930s New Deal. Indeed, the 
                              Indiana
                          Mural, which Benton painted soon after Roosevelt was elected
                         in 1932 and as he began his first term in office in March 1933, embodies
                         Benton's efforts to espouse the liberal politics of the New Deal
                         through the modern art of Regionalism. It purposefully segued with the new
                         president's New Deal aims and ambitions. As the artist explained
                         in a letter to Richard Lieber, the man responsible for commissioning the
                         mural, "the really momentous question of the day [is] that of our
                         social and economic reorganization."2 Or as
                         Benton would later recall, "Regionalism was very largely
                         affirmative of the social exploration of American society and resultant
                         democratic impulses on which President Roosevelt's New Deal was
                              based."3
                    
                     Born in 1889 in 
                              Neosho
                          , 
                              Missouri
                          , Benton was the eldest son of a 
                              U.S.
                          congressman with ties to populist and progressive politics. He
                         was named after his great-uncle, Senator Thomas Hart Benton, the nine-
                         teenth-century champion of Manifest Destiny. "Politics was the
                         core of our family life," Benton recalled in his 1937
                         autobiography An Artist in 
                                   America
                              
                         , explaining how he was expected to continue in his family's
                         political footsteps. "From the moment of my birth," he
                         added, "my future was laid out in my father's mind. A
                         Benton male could be nothing but a lawyer . .. only lawyers were equipped
                         and fitted to possess politi- cal power."4
                         This Benton male, however, had other ideas. He remained 
                              
                                   2Thomas Hart Benton to Richard Lieber,
                                   February 3, 1933, microfilm roll 1732, frames 14-15, Benton
                                   Papers, Archives of American Art, 
                                        Washington,
                                             D.C.
                                   
                              
                              
                                   3Thomas Hart Benton, "American
                                   Regionalism: A Personal History of the Movement," in An American in Art: A Professional and Technical
                                        Autobiography ( 
                                        Lawrence
                                    , 
                                        Kan.
                                    , 1969), 192. 
                              
                                   4Thomas Hart Benton, An Artist
                                        in 
                                             America
                                        , 4th rev. ed. ( 
                                        Columbia
                                    , 
                                        Mo.
                                    , 1983), 5, 10, 11; for an overview of
                                   Benton's public art politics see Erika Doss, Benton, Pollock, and the Politics of Modernism:
                                        From Regionalism to Abstract Expressionism ( 
                                        Chicago
                                    , 1991). 
                         
                          committed to public life, but he did
                         so in the realm of public art by syn- thesizing the inherited values of his
                         politically engaged family with his particular brand of modern art, and by
                         fronting his visual version of American politics in modern public paintings
                         like A Social History of the State of 
                                   Indiana
                              
                         . [plates 2-10] It was one of four major public murals that Benton
                         painted in the 1930s, including 
                              
                                   America
                               Today (1930-31, New School for Social Research, 
                              New
                                   York
                          ), The Arts of Life in 
                                   America
                              
                          (1932, Whitney Museum of American Art, 
                              New
                                   York
                          ) [p. 161], and A Social History of the State of 
                                   Missouri
                              
                          (1936, 
                              Missouri
                          State Capitol, 
                              Jefferson City
                          ). [plate 13] 
                     Benton's interests in large-scale public wall painting followed in
                         the footsteps of the turn-of-the-century American mural movement, repre-
                         sented in the decorative, pastel-toned, and classically themed panels that
                         Gilded Age artists like Edwin Blashfield and Kenyon Cox painted for
                         worlds' fairs, municipal buildings, and public schools. Yet the
                         dynamic rhythms and bright colors of Benton's murals, with their
                         energetic scenes of everyday American life and their focus on the tense and
                         often fraught conditions of American history, demonstrated
                         Benton's keen interests in the active and affective conditions of
                         American modernity. 
                    Among the American Scene moderns, Benton was especially engaged in historical
                         narrative, which he first pursued in The American Historical
                              Epic. [plates 11, 12] Begun in 1919 and abandoned, unfin- ished,
                         in the late 1920s, this multi-paneled mural embodied Benton's
                         conviction that American history "was not a scholarly study . . .
                         but a drama." American history, said Benton, was "a
                         continuous flow of action having its climax in my own immediate
                              experience."5 As he later explained, this
                         first mural was intended "to present a peoples' history
                         in contrast to the conventional histories which generally spotlighted great
                         men, political and military events, and successions of ideas. I wanted to
                         show that the people's behaviors, their action on the opening
                         land, was the primary reality of American life."6
                    
                         The American Historical Epic was ambitiously conceived as
                         a series of ten chapters with five panels each, ranging in theme from
                         European arrival, conquest, confrontation, and settlement in the New World,
                              
                              
                                   5Thomas Hart Benton, "A Dream
                                   Fulfilled," statement in David Laurance Chambers, 
                                        
                                             Indiana
                                         , A Hoosier History, Based on the Mural
                                        Paintings of Thomas Hart Benton ( 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , 1933), 49. 
                              
                                   6Benton, "American Regionalism: A
                                   Personal History of the Movement," 149. 
                         
                          through frontier exploration, slavery,
                         the Civil War, and the emergence of modern American industry. Benton
                         completed only three chapters, however, ending with colonial history. In
                         1928, he explained that the mural's style, which he called
                         "representational dynamism," combined the
                         "extensive experience one has of the real world" with the
                         new art forms and principles that he called his "modern
                              inheritance."7 Its ener- getic, muscular
                         compositions, which critic Lewis Mumford described as "moving
                         rhythmically through space and time," conveyed Benton's
                         belief that social "action" defined American history,
                         past and present.8
                    
                     Yet much of Benton's dynamic depiction of American action cen-
                         tered on human conflict, struggle, and racial discord. All of the panels in
                         the mural's first chapter focused on antagonism between European
                         explorers and indigenous Americans, and the panels in the second chap- ter
                         similarly centered on strife and destruction. Benton's social epic
                         of American history, in other words, was an unceasing pattern of racial
                         vio- lence and human anguish; his focus on action showed conflict as the
                         central metaphor in the American national narrative.9
                    
                     Perhaps it was despair that this was the national imaginary that led Benton
                         to abandon The American Historical Epic in the late
                         1920s. In subsequent murals Benton focused on scenes that gibed with his
                         politi- cal convictions and, in particular, his faith in a liberal
                         democracy shaped by the industry--and independence--of hardworking men. He
                         did not entirely ignore episodes of racial terrorism, religious
                         intolerance, and human conflict in his subsequent murals, however. In his 
                              Missouri
                          mural, for example, he included scenes of slaves being beaten
                         and the expulsion of the Mormons. [plate 13] And in the most controversial
                         panel of the 
                              Indiana
                          Mural, he painted a scene of the Ku Klux Klan stag- ing a
                         rally, accompanied by a burning cross and an American flag.
                         Benton's reasons for including this scene stem from the specifics
                         of the commission, and from his unwavering attention to the dynamics of
                         social agency. 
                    
                         A Social History of the State of 
                                   Indiana
                              
                          was unveiled at the 
                              Chicago
                          Century of Progress International Exposition in late May 1933,
                         inside 
                              
                                   7Thomas Hart Benton, "My American
                                   Epic in Paint," Creative Art, 3
                                   (December 1928), 31-36. 
                              
                                   8Lewis Mumford, "Thomas H.
                                   Benton," Ibid., 37. 
                              
                                   9For a full discussion of these mural panels
                                   see Erika Doss, "American Historical Epic," in
                                   Margaret C. Conrads, ed., American Paintings to
                                        1945: The Collections of the Nelson-Atkins Museum of
                                        Art (2 vols., 
                                        Kansas City
                                    . 
                                        Mo.
                                    , 2007), vol. 1, 52-70. 
                         
                         
                         
                              The 
                                        Indiana
                                    Mural cycle, 
                                        Indiana
                                    Hall, 
                                        Chicago
                                    World's Fair, 1933.
                                   A Social History of the State of 
                                             Indiana
                                         Mural by Thomas Hart Benton, 1933/1
                                   photographic print: b&w 16x27 cm. Courtesy of the
                                   Wallace Richards Papers, 1932-1933, Archives of American Art,
                                   Smithsonian Institution.
                          the 
                              Indiana
                          pavilion in the Hall of States Building. Determined that 
                              Indiana
                          be represented by something more impressive than "the
                         usual state show of pumpkins, ears of corn, and photographs of
                         pigs," Richard Lieber hired Benton to paint a state-defining
                         modern mural.10 Some peo- ple protested, calling Benton
                         an outsider, but Lieber persuaded them of Benton's artistic
                         prominence--he had just received a gold medal from the 
                              New
                                   York
                          Architectural League for his Whitney Museum mural-- and of his
                         ties to the state: 
                              Indiana
                          's Benton Township and 
                              Benton
                                   County
                         , for example, had both been named after the artist's
                         great-uncle. Benton was awarded a $10,000 commission, and in just five
                         months produced an enormous mural that was 250 feet long and 12 feet tall.
                         Mounted 10 feet off the ground, it appeared even larger inside the 
                              Indiana
                          pavilion.
                    Featuring twenty-two panels, the mural was divided into scenes of 
                              Indiana
                          's industrial progress on one side, and the
                         state's reformist cul- tures on the other. As Wallace Richards, an
                         art critic and superintendent of the 
                              Indiana
                          pavilion, observed: "It was decided to do away with
                         the conventional literary history in paint and to attempt something more
                              
                              10Erika Doss, "New Deal Politics
                                   and Regionalist Art: Thomas Hart Benton's A
                                        Social History of the State of 
                                             Indiana
                                        
                                   ," Prospects: An Annual of American
                                        Cultural Studies, 17 ( 
                                        Cambridge
                                    , 
                                        N.Y.
                                   , 1992), 354-55.
                         
                          fundamental--an economic and cultural
                         history of 
                              Indiana
                          's growth." Benton explained that his mural,
                         ostensibly a portrait of only 
                              Indiana
                          , was actually "symbolical of the entire
                         country," a national narrative ranging from the pre-contact era to
                         the Great Depression.11
                    
                              Indiana
                          's mural was clearly intended as a
                         "people's history," a histo- ry of the ordinary
                         folk who conquered, settled, and built up the territory and the state (
                              Indiana
                          was admitted to the union in 1816). This social history
                         emphasis was fairly radical for the time. The major American his- tory
                         textbooks of the era, for example The Growth of the American
                              Republic by Samuel Eliot Morison and Henry Steele Commager (which
                         was first published in 1930 and remained a top-selling college history text
                         for four decades), stressed the expert guidance of American elites
                         (presidents and politicians) in chapters such as "Liberty and
                         Empire" and "The Peace of 
                              Paris
                          ." Benton's approach was different, focusing
                         on "histo- ry from below" rather than "history
                         from above," and on issues of social dynamics and agency. While he
                         included a few key historical players-- Abraham Lincoln, for example, and
                         Civil War-era Governor Oliver P. Morton--most of the 270-odd figures in the
                         mural were modeled on modern-day Hoosiers that he sketched during his
                         forays around the state.
                    Most of them were also men: while feminist Frances Wright was featured in a
                         panel titled "Woman's Place," Benton mostly
                         understood 
                              Indiana
                          --and all American--history on masculine terms. [plate 7]
                         Women were "touchy" subjects, he once remarked, and his
                         1937 autobi- ography is dotted with descriptions of "girls in whom
                         I was much inter- ested but with whom I could never seem to get along for
                         any satisfactory length of time."12 Elizabeth
                         Schultz explains that Benton's "concern for
                         'people in general' appears restricted by the
                         heterosexual and masculine basis of his assertions."
                         Benton's hypermasculinity was colored, in part, by his politician
                         father, who had expected his eldest son to follow in his footsteps and
                         ridiculed artists as "mincing, bootlicking portrait
                         painters" who "hung around the skirts of women"
                         and "lisped a silly jargon about grace and beauty."13 In the years following his father's death
                         in 1924, 
                              11Wallace Richards, "Memorandum to
                                   the Director," January 27, 1933, microfilm roll 1732,
                                   frame 67, Benton Papers; Benton, "A Dream
                                   Fulfilled," 49. 
                              12Benton, An Artist in 
                                             America
                                        
                                   , 79, 37.
                              13Elizabeth Schultz, "An Artist in 
                                             America
                                        
                                   : Thomas Hart Benton's 'Song of
                                   Himself'," in R. Douglas Hurt and Mary K.
                                   Dains, eds., Thomas Hart Benton: Artist, Writer, and
                                        Intellectual (
                                        Columbia
                                    , 
                                        Mo.
                                    , 1989), 171, 186; Benton, An Artist in 
                                        America
                                    , 12.
                         
                          Benton overcompensated with big, bold
                         paintings and murals that pic- tured a mostly masculine American Scene.
                    Soon after receiving the 
                              Indiana
                          mural commission, Benton spent several weeks in the 
                              Indiana
                          State Library researching the state's history. He
                         then drove some 3,000 miles around 
                              Indiana
                          , searching for the "characters" who defined
                         the state and its historical narrative. He pro- duced over 600 preliminary
                         pen-and-ink sketches during his travels, including 150 individual character
                         studies, and these became the core visual material of the mural. Aware of
                         his outsider status, and anticipat- ing the public outcry that might greet
                         the mural, Benton also sketched various 
                              Indiana
                          personalities who, he felt, could help him to
                         "sell" his project.14 These included
                         the journalists, columnists, and managing edi- tors of various 
                              Indianapolis
                          newspapers who were featured in panels such as
                         "Leisure and Literature."
                    Benton's sense of agency--of who has social control, who deter-
                         mines the course of American history, and who is denied that national
                         subjectivity--is revealed throughout the mural. In panels ranging from
                         "Home Industry" to "Early Schools and
                         Communities," Benton told the story of a hardworking and
                         cooperative nineteenth-century common- wealth. [plates 2, 6] In the
                         mural's two concluding panels, " 
                              Indiana
                          Puts Her Trust in Work" and " 
                              Indiana
                          Puts Her Trust in Thought," he told the
                         state's modern-day story: one that showed the problems of the
                         present-- note the scene of angry citizens shaking their fists at the
                         closed doors of a bank--and found their solutions in the social reform
                         agenda of the New Deal, symbolized in the small panel showing Governor Paul
                         V. McNutt--newly elected in the Democratic Party landslide of 1932--
                         pointing to the year 1933 and the words "State
                         Reorganization," "Banking,"
                         "Unemployment," "School Salaries," and
                         "Repeal" written above him. [plates 5, 10] Unfortunately,
                         both of these small panels, orig- inally placed on either side of the exit
                         door in the Indiana pavilion, are now lost, but they summarized
                         Benton's faith, and what he hoped was all 
                              Indiana
                          's, in the New Deal.
                    
                         14See Kathleen A. Foster, "Thomas Hart
                              Benton and the 
                                   Indiana
                               Murals," and Nanette Esseck Brewer,
                              "Benton as Hoosier Historian: Constructing a Visual Narrative
                              in the 
                                   Indiana
                               Murals," in Kathleen Foster, Nanette Esseck
                              Brewer, and Margaret Contompasis, Thomas Hart Benton and
                                   the 
                                        Indiana
                                    Murals (
                                   Bloomington
                               , 
                                   Ind.
                               , 2000), 7-32 and 136-181 for in-depth information and
                              analysis.
                    
                    

                    
                         With her ungainly dress and masculine figure,
                              Benton's vision of the pioneer woman struck an unflattering,
                              unromanticized note. Detail from Industrial panel 4,
                              "Home Industry." Courtesy Indiana University
                              Art Museum
                    
                    Was Benton's focus on populist agency a romantic gloss on American
                         history? Few viewers found his depiction of the pioneer woman in
                         "Home Industry"--the woman in the ugly pink dress, with
                         the enormous feet and well-sculpted shoulders--very flattering. Further,
                         Benton's 
                              Indiana
                          history was all-inclusive--and that extended to those
                         problematic people and unsettling events that, he explained, made up the
                         whole "contradictory complex of American life."15 Benton's 
                              Indiana
                          Mural included, for example, scenes of eighteenth-century
                              
                              15Benton, "A Dream Fulfilled," 49.
                         
                          French fur traders harassing Native
                         Americans, and nineteenth-century soldiers forcing Indians off
                         white-claimed lands. It included scenes of fugitive slaves and labor
                         strikes. And it included a scene of the KKK. Benton did so to remind
                         viewers of the Klan's potent political force in 
                              Indiana
                          during the 1920s, when Grand Dragon D. C. Stephenson set up
                         operations in 
                              Indiana
                          and exploited "fears of 
                              Rome
                         , Rum, 
                              Russia
                         , Blacks, and Jews." Hoosiers in the 1920s eagerly
                         supported the Klan: over 200,000 of them joined the party and some 400,000
                         subscribed to the Klan's newspaper, The Fiery
                              Cross. Republican party candidate Ed Jackson largely owed his
                         election as governor in 1924 to the Klan vote, as did the mayor of 
                              Indianapolis
                          and scores of local politicians.16
                    Benton included the KKK in his 
                              Indiana
                          Mural to emphasize the need for truly democratic politics in
                         Depression-era 
                              America
                         --and to warn viewers about backsliding. [plate 9] He included
                         the KKK to advo- cate for constant vigilance in the shaping and sustenance
                         of a just civic sphere. He included the KKK as an aberrant historical
                         moment in a panel that otherwise celebrates the power of mass media--we see
                         a type- setter at his printing press, a reporter and his typewriter, and a
                         photog- rapher with his box camera--and the social agency of those who work
                         to improve the lives of others: from nurses and firefighters to entertain- ers--
                              Peru
                          , 
                              Indiana
                          , was the winter home to many different circuses, including
                         Ringling Brothers and Barnum and Bailey--and conservation- ists. In the
                         vignette on the lower right, Benton painted his patron, Richard Lieber, and
                         a Purdue University biologist, planting a tree.
                    Benton's sense of social agency also extended to himself, emphasiz-
                         ing the role of the modern American artist, and the centrality of modern
                         American art, in the national narrative. In the 
                              Indiana
                          Mural, he is the figure holding the artist's palette
                         and smoking a pipe, standing next to Thomas Hibben, the architect who
                         designed the 
                              Indiana
                          pavilion, and near newly elected Governor McNutt, the
                         political architect of local New Deal reform. Placing himself between these
                         two men, Benton cast him- self, and his style of modern American art, on
                         similarly significant and historically engaged terms.
                    On the one hand, this mural self-portrait was all about ego, and Benton was
                         one of the biggest of the many big egos in twentieth-century American art.
                         But Benton included himself to show the modern 
                              16James H. Madison, The 
                                             Indiana
                                         Way: A State History ( 
                                        Bloomington
                                    , 
                                        Ind.
                                    , 1986), 290-91.
                         
                          American artist as a figure engaged
                         in, rather than alienated from, the American Scene. Benton saw himself as
                         an agent of American history: the visual scribe of 
                              Indiana
                          's working and cultural classes coming together in
                         the "social and economic reorganization" of the early
                         1930s New Deal. He insisted that modern American art act as a force for
                         his- torical change: these public murals were not intended as documents or
                         illustrations, but as templates and guides for his imagined national
                         future. Benton believed in a modern American art oriented toward social
                         synthesis and reform rather than social hierarchy and civic disjunction,
                         and his views were widely shared in the era of the Great Depression. As
                         Social Realist artist Louis Guglielmi remarked in the mid-1930s:
                         "I feel that it is necessary to create a significant art and not
                         merely some super- deluxe framed wallpaper to decorate the homes of the
                         wealthy. The time has come when painters are returning to the life of the
                              people."17
                    Still, while American Scene moderns like Benton saw themselves as agents in
                         American history, their sense of that history--and their par- ticipation in
                         it--was often anxious and antagonistic. As Benton painted it, American
                         history was bumpy and flawed--feelings that are conveyed in the loud,
                         oppositional compositions and strident colors of his public murals, and in
                         the historically despicable subjects that he often includ- ed. As much as
                         Benton's Hoosier history is populated by hard-working and
                         industrious men, and oriented toward a progressive narrative that ends on a
                         note of upbeat, pro-New Deal sympathies, this is not "American
                         history lite." This is "American history
                         brutal": an unrelent- ing saga of social action and populist
                         agency that, however factual, pic- tures the national narrative on
                         frenzied, tumultuous, and tortured terms. Consider how the hundreds of
                         figures that Benton painted rarely smile or laugh, and never seem to relax.
                         How can they? All of them are mus- cle-bound titans--the figure of Lincoln,
                         for example, stands over nine feet tall--who are completely focused on, and
                         even obsessed with, the making, doing, and performing of 
                              Indiana
                          's American Scene.
                    Benton viewed history as something more than a march through time of key
                         events and players. He understood American history in terms of felt
                         experience and affective conditions. History was emotional; 
                              17Louis Guglielmi, "After the
                                   Locusts," in Francis V O'Connor, ed., Art for the Millions: Essays From the 1930s By
                                        Artists and Administrators of the WPA Federal Art
                                        Project (
                                        New
                                             York
                                    , 1973), 114.
                         
                         
                         
                              Benton's stark juxtaposition of
                                   "harsh, violent realities" beside examples of
                                   the "truly democratic politics of Depression-era 
                                        America
                                    " presented a clear-eyed depiction of 
                                        Indiana
                                    life and history. The murals acted simultaneously as
                                   both warning and celebration. Detail from Cultural panel 10,
                                   "Parks, the Circus, the Klan, the Press."
                                   Courtesy IU Archives
                          history was engaged. And in his modern art drama, the emotional
                         condi- tions that he repeatedly visualized were heightened states of
                         anxiety. This becomes especially clear when we take in the full sweep of
                         this Hoosier history: its syncopated rhythm of fires and clouds of smoke;
                         its jam-packed narrative full of action, action, action; its repeated
                         attention to the harsh, violent realities of human conflict in the making
                         of 
                              America
                          . It is no surprise that students and others at Indiana
                         University have protested against this mural, and in particular against the
                         scene fea- turing the KKK. Benton's focus on the affective
                         conditions of the  American experience
                         was--and is--purposefully unnerving. Benton wanted viewers to experience
                         the dynamics of American history--and to recognize their own agency within
                         those conditions.
                    Public murals are often the source of conflict and controversy on college
                         campuses. At the University of Notre Dame, Luigi Gregori's
                         Columbus Murals have prompted protest in recent years, including demands by
                         some Native American students that they be removed. The murals, painted
                         between 1882-1884 and located in Notre Dame's Main Building,
                         feature twelve panels that tell the story of Columbus's journey to
                         the New World. Those that some viewers find particularly offensive are
                         "Taking Possession of the New World ," which shows
                         Columbus planting a cross and claiming the territory for the Catholic
                         monarchs Ferdinand and Isabella, while various Taino Indians look on in
                         awe, and "Return of Columbus and Reception at Court,"
                         which depicts Columbus's triumphant return to 
                              Granada
                          , with Indian captives and the spoils of conquest in tow. Both
                         are fairly ridiculous pictures, full of his- torical inaccuracies (such as
                         the Plains Indian costuming that Gregori selected for the Indian captives)
                         and insulting stereotypes.
                     The mural was conceived at a moment of Christopher Columbus mania: in 1882,
                         the Knights of Columbus, the Catholic fraternal organi- zation, was founded
                         and a decade later, the 400th anniversary of Columbus's discovery
                         of 
                              America
                          was heralded in innumerable American memorials and in the 1893
                         Columbian Exposition. Painted, too, to combat decades of anti-Catholic
                         sentiment in 
                              America
                          , Notre Dame's mural was intended to unite the campus
                         around a historical fig- ure engaged in God's work. In 1997, a
                         university committee was appointed to develop a nuanced historical
                         interpretation and distribute a free full-color brochure of the murals,
                         which states: "The University of Notre Dame recognizes that the
                         Columbus murals reflect 19th-century white European views of race, gender
                         and ethnicity which may be offen- sive to some individuals."
                    Dartmouth's Hovey Murals, on the other hand, were covered up and
                         hidden away in the early 1980s after objections were raised to their
                         mythologizing of that college's history and their soft-core
                         pornographic depiction of Native American women. Painted in the late 1930s
                         by Walter Beach Humphrey (a 1914 Dartmouth graduate), the murals illus-
                         trated Dartmouth's drinking song, a ditty written by Richard
                         Hovey. Originally located in Hovey Grill, a rathskeller of sorts in Thayer
                         Hall, the murals tell the story of Dartmouth College's founder,
                         Eleazar Wheelock, venturing into the New England wilderness with some
                         "five  hundred
                         gallons" of rum, which he "served" to the Native
                         American men he encountered from the school's legendary silver
                         punch bowl. Everyone gets drunk and has a fine time, including the
                         half-naked females standing around--one of whom is depicted reading an
                         upside- down book.
                    If once considered amusing, by the 1970s the Hovey Murals were the subject of
                         intense debate at Dartmouth, serving as a generational dividing line
                         between alumni who objected to the college's move toward
                         co-education (Dartmouth first admitted female students in 1972) and
                         students incensed by their demeaning depiction of Native Americans. The
                         drinking song itself implied that area Indians traded their land to
                         Wheelock for alcohol; it also discounted the college's original
                         charter to educate the "youth of the Indian tribes in this
                         land." By the 1980s, the murals were placed in storage--although
                         in 1993, Native American stu- dents asked that they be made public again.
                         As Colleen Larimore, former director of Dartmouth's Native
                         American Program remarked, "While we still consider the murals to
                         be degrading and offensive, we cannot deny how Native Americans were viewed
                         in the past at Dartmouth and in this country. Rather than fleeing from this
                         past, we must face it and learn from it."18
                    Larimore's comments are relevant in our consideration today of
                         Benton's 
                              Indiana
                          Mural, some parts of which are certainly offensive and
                         degrading. Yet however uncomfortable Benton's active and anxious
                         pic- tures make us feel, they serve to remind us of the nation's
                         legacy of con- flict, violence, and racial struggle, and of our obligations
                         as agents of American history to re-imagine and re-make 
                              America
                          on less shameful terms.
                    
                         18Colleen Larimore, comments made in 1993 as
                              noted at "The Hovey Murals," Dartmouth College, at:
                              http://hoodmuseum.dartmouth.edu/collections/overview/
                              artoncampus/hovey.html (accessed August 22, 2008).
                    
               
               
               
                    Looking Forward/Looking Backward: Benton's 
                              Indiana
                          Murals and the 
                              Chicago
                          World's Fair
                    JOY S. KASSON
                    Thomas Hart Benton's 1933 
                              Indiana
                          Murals literally encased the viewer in the flow of history.
                         Walking through the original installa- tion, one moved from past to
                         present. The entrance wall featured gigan- tic figures of aboriginal
                         dwellers (prehistoric "Mound Builders" and "The
                         Indians," Miami and Potawatomi peoples in residence during the
                         early European contacts). Along the length of the rectangular hall,
                         "Industrial panels" on one side and "Cultural
                         panels" on the other led the viewer through the flow of 
                              Indiana
                          history. At the exit wall, images of the present were capped
                         by two future-oriented final panels, "
                              Indiana
                          Puts Her Trust in Work" and " 
                              Indiana
                          Puts Her Trust in Thought."l
                         [plates 5, 10]
                    These murals took their viewers on a walk through history in order to look
                         toward the future. They represented an attempt to look forward by looking
                         backward. In a way that was especially poignant during the Depression
                         years, they imagined a utopian future, and vivid- 
                              Joy S. Kasson is Professor of American Studies and English at
                                   the University of North Carolina at 
                                        Chapel Hill
                                   .
                              1Description of the murals and images of
                                   their original installation can be found in Kathleen A. Foster,
                                   Nanette Esseck Brewer, and Margaret Contompasis, Thomas Hart Benton and the 
                                             Indiana
                                         Murals (
                                        Bloomington
                                    , 
                                        Ind.
                                    , 2000).
                         
                          ly embodied the theme of the
                         world's fair for which they were created, 
                              Chicago
                          's Century of Progress International Exposition of
                         1933.
                    American utopian thinking had often invoked images from history, from Thomas
                         Jefferson's architectural designs that looked back to ancient 
                              Greece
                          and 
                              Rome
                          , to the massive historical paintings in the 
                              U.S.
                          Capitol building rotunda, to Abraham Lincoln's
                         evocation of the Declaration of Independence on the battlefield at 
                              Gettysburg
                          . America's most successful utopian novel, Edward
                         Bellamy's Looking Backward (1888), imagined a
                         post-capitalistic future through the eyes of a time- traveler who could
                         compare the past and the present. Late nineteenth- century Americans
                         reveled in historical pageants, from the Civil War reunions that began
                         almost as soon as the war ended, to the reenact- ments of Western history
                         in Buffalo Bill's Wild West, to the civic com- memorations that
                         had become a national craze by the early twentieth century.
                    World's fairs were particularly significant occasions for looking
                         backward in order to look forward. After the enormous success of the 1851
                         Crystal Palace Exhibition in 
                              London
                          , a series of similar exhibitions sprang up all around the
                         world. The 
                              Paris
                          Exposition Universelle of 1889 looked back one hundred years
                         to the beginning of the French Revolution, and it contained a replica of
                         the Bastille. But, looking for- ward, it likewise highlighted the
                         engineering marvel of the Eiffel Tower and featured a "Palais des
                         Machines" showcasing the latest technological developments from
                         around the world. This same blend of commemora- tion and futurism
                         characterized many other international expositions around the world,
                         including the famous 
                              Paris
                          World's Fair of 1900, whose "great hall of
                         dynamos" caused Henry Adams to reflect, in his customary
                         third-person narrative, on the passing of symbolic power in human affairs
                         from the Virgin--who had inspired medieval builders--to the machines that
                         excited his contemporaries: "As he grew accustomed to the great
                         gallery of machines, he began to feel the forty-foot dynamos as a moral
                         force, much as the early Christians felt the Cross . . . Among the thousand
                         symbols of ultimate energy the dynamo was not so human as some, but it was
                         the most expressive."2
                    In the 
                              United States
                          , the Centennial Exposition of 1876 looked back one hundred
                         years to the founding of the American Republic while 
                              2Henry Adams, The Education of
                                        Henry Adams, An Autobiography ( 
                                        Boston
                                    , 1918), 380.
                         
                          opening a window to the future with
                         the Corliss Engine and other exhi- bitions of modern machinery. The
                         World's Columbian Exposition in 
                              Chicago
                          in 1893 was meant to mark the 400th anniversary of
                         Columbus's first voyage (it opened a year later than originally
                         planned), and in its neoclassical architectural style the White City looked
                         back- ward to the great civilizations of the past even as it claimed to
                         exemplify an American utopia of the present and future. In 1904 a
                         world's fair in 
                              Saint
                                   Louis
                          celebrated the Louisiana Purchase; in 1926 a 
                              Philadelphia
                          Sesquicentennial International Exposition attempted to repeat
                         the suc- cess of the 1876 world's fair in the same city.
                    Thus, when 
                              Chicago
                          public figures began to discuss the possibility of a
                         world's fair to commemorate the hundredth anniversary of the
                         founding of their city in 1833, they imagined a backward look to the past
                         that would be tied to forward-thinking economic promotion. Accordingly, the
                         planners sought private funding for the fair's financial support,
                         choosing to issue notes and memberships and to charge exhibitor and
                         concessionaire fees rather than requesting local, state, or national
                         government assistance. This decision probably saved them after the stock
                         market crash of 1929. Major 
                              Chicago
                          investors, including Julius Rosenwald of Sears, Robert
                         McCormick of the 
                              
                                   Chicago
                               Tribune, Philip K. Wrigley of the chewing gum
                         company, and former 
                              U.S.
                          vice president Charles Dawes, had already pledged over $12
                         million in guar- antees for the bonds before Black Tuesday; thus the fair
                         was able to move forward (and its economic boost to the city proved even
                         more valuable as the 1930s unrolled).3
                     Initial descriptions of the fair cast it squarely in the commemora- tive
                         tradition of earlier American world's fairs. In their first
                         proposal to 
                              Chicago
                          's mayor, organizers suggested that the city should
                         host "the greatest Centennial Exhibit in the world,"
                         either in 1933, a century after 
                              Chicago
                          's incorporation as a village, or in 1937, one
                         hundred years after its emergence as a city.4 The
                         fair's site sat at a hub of architectural his- toricism, adjacent
                         to neoclassical buildings evocative of the White City: the Field Museum,
                         the Shedd Aquarium, and Soldier Field. And the fair's plans
                         included a replica of old Fort Dearborn , the 
                              U.S.
                          Army outpost that marked 
                              Chicago
                          's founding. 
                    
                         3Lisa D. Schrenk, Building a Century
                                   of Progress: The Architecture of 
                                        Chicago
                                    's 1933-34 World's Fair (
                                   Minneapolis
                               , 
                                   Minn.
                               , 2007), 20-22, 42-44.
                         4Ibid., 20.
                    
                    
                     But, as the extent of the Great Depression became apparent and the opening
                         date for the fair drew closer, organizers reevaluated their plan for a
                         historically minded celebration. What could motivate Depression- stricken
                         Americans to spend their dwindling resources on travel and entertainment?
                         And what narrative of historical progress could reassure a public all too
                         worried that the present moment represented danger and declension? The fair
                         was conceived as a backward look, but perhaps a look forward would be more
                         encouraging to a Depression-era audience. Accordingly, the Centennial
                         Exposition acquired a new name: A Century of Progress. Its central focus,
                         organizers decided, would be upon human progress through technology.
                         "Science Finds--Industry Applies--Man Conforms" became
                         its motto.5 Viewers would come to the fair to imag- ine
                         a brighter tomorrow--literally brighter, since the planners also made the
                         decision to drench the fair with bright, saturated colors. [plate 1]
                         Nothing could be more different from the White City of 1893 than the sleek,
                         futuristic buildings in their brilliant colors. Like the architectural
                         fantasies of Coney Island, the fair would invite viewers to enter a dream- like world.
                         But unlike an amusement park, the world's fair would sug- gest
                         that the world of tomorrow lay within the grasp of the visitors.
                         Modern-looking buildings promoted corporate 
                              America
                          in a way that visually erased the Depression; prosperity
                         reigned at the General Motors building where you could see an actual
                         automobile being manufactured. The electricity building not only suggested
                         a futuristic world, but it was illuminated by colored lights day and night.
                         The fair looked forward with determination.
                    The fair's planners knew that the Depression meant that they had an
                         opportunity to enlist the talents of 
                              America
                          's leading new architects. Progressive architects,
                         lacking private commissions for "real" structures, were
                         eager to showcase new ideas that might lead to the adoption of their
                         designs by private and corporate patrons. Their buildings could use
                         inexpensive building materials and hire cheap laborers eager for work of
                         any kind. Furthermore, building codes were less than stringent at the
                         fair's site on newly reclaimed land, so its buildings could become
                         a laboratory for innovative building design. The House of Tomorrow,
                         designed by George Frederick Keck, drawing concepts from Le Corbusier and
                         Buckminster Fuller, encased a polygonal structure in 
                              5Ibid., 19-20.
                         
                          tinted glass and featured new
                         appliances such as the television. The Masonite House, designed by the firm
                         of Frazier and Raferty, combined stylish design with new man-made
                         materials.
                    The Century of Progress Exposition thus used its backward glance in order to
                         look forward. The opening ceremonies illustrated this partic- ularly well.
                         Fair organizers had seized upon a logo for the fair that looked back into
                         deep time and forward toward scientific wonders. Astronomers had calculated
                         that the star Arcturus, 200 trillion miles away, took forty years to send
                         its light to earth--exactly the length of time since the previous
                         world's fair in 
                              Chicago
                          in 1893. Accordingly, a Rube Goldberg-like device was
                         constructed to capture light from the star, feed it into photo-electric
                         cells, convert it to energy, and send it to 
                              Chicago
                          , where, it was said, the light from the star touched off the
                         elec- trical system that powered up the fair's lighting on opening
                         night. Modern scientists find the calculations inaccurate, but nonetheless
                         Arcturus became the fair's logo and the perfect symbol of its
                         futuristic uses of the past.6
                     When Colonel Richard Lieber and the 
                              Indiana
                          Commission for the Century of Progress Exposition decided to
                         commission a mural depict- ing the state's history for its
                         building at the world's fair, they chose a vibrantly modern art
                         form for the contemplation of the past. During the 1920s and 1930s, mural
                         painting had been embraced as a medium for comprehensive social commentary
                         and critique; at the same time, murals were being commissioned by major
                         industrialists such as Edsel Ford and Nelson Rockefeller. Mexican painter
                         Jose Clemente Orozco had painted murals at the New School for Social
                         Research in 
                              New
                                   York
                          in 1931-32, and Diego Rivera was receiving publicity for his
                         monumen- tal 
                              
                                   Detroit
                               Industry murals the same year. Rivera was already
                         working on the controversial Man at the Crossroads for
                         Rockefeller Center in 
                              New
                                   York
                          (Nelson Rockefeller destroyed it in May 1933 because it
                         contained a portrait of Lenin). In December 1932, when the 
                              Indiana
                          Commission for the Century of Progress Exposition met to
                         decide on the design for its pavilion, the proposal to commission 250 feet
                         of painted murals was bold and modern.
                    Thomas Hart Benton had already completed one mural project, the 1930 
                              
                                   America
                               Today series for the New School. He and Orozco were
                         at 
                              6lbid., 1-3.
                         
                          work in the same building at the same
                         time. Both painters were charged to paint a contemporary subject
                         "of such importance that no history written a hundred years from
                         now could fail to devote a chapter to it." For Benton, that
                         subject was "the tremendous burst of human energy and mechanical
                         power that characterizes the present phase of economic life in 
                              America
                          ."7 His ten panels for the
                         school's board room featured men and women at work and at play, in
                         agricultural and industrial set- tings and at leisure. Some panels, like
                         "The Changing West", depicted their story dynamically,
                         presenting a panorama that moved from the tra- ditional cowboy at the upper
                         right to the world of airplanes, oil refiner- ies, and building boom at the
                         upper center and left. The paintings were based on sketches he had made on
                         travels throughout the country, and on musings about American history in
                         which he had been engaged for over a decade.
                    Since the end of World War I, Benton, like many American artists and writers,
                         had been thinking about the meaning of history in the shap- ing of the
                         American present. In 1918, critic Van Wyck Brooks had coined the phrase the
                         "usable past," to designate a search for a history that
                         would be vigorous and critical and would speak directly to the issues of
                         the present.8 Benton was engaged in a parallel quest;
                         in 1919 he began The American Historical Epic, a series
                         of paintings intended "to present a peoples' history in
                         contrast to the conventional histories. . . . I wanted to show that the
                         peoples' behaviors, their action on the opening
                         land, was the primary reality of American life."9 [plates 11, 12] Although he never found the patronage that
                         would have allowed him to realize the project in full, the pieces he
                         completed during the 1920s forecast his vig- orously critical look at
                         American history.
                    Shortly before receiving the 
                              Indiana
                          commission, Benton had pro- vided illustrations for a history
                         textbook. Leo Huberman, a Marxist his- torian of American life, consulted
                         Benton in the writing as well as the illustrations for We the
                              People, published in 1932. Huberman drew from economic historians
                         (his acknowledgments mention A.M. Schlesinger, 
                              7Erika Doss, Benton, Pollock,
                                        and the Politics of Modernism: From Regionalism to Abstract
                                        Expressionism ( 
                                        Chicago
                                    , 1991), 79.
                              8Van Wyck Brooks, "On Creating a
                                   Usable Past," The Dial; a Semi-monthly
                                        Journal of Literary Criticism, Discussion, and
                                        Information, 64 (April 11, 1918), 337.
                              9Thomas Hart Benton, An
                                        American in Art ( 
                                        Lawrence
                                    , 
                                        Kan.
                                    , 1969), quoted in Erika Doss, Benton,
                                        Pollock, and the Politics of Modernism, 9.
                         
                          J. Franklin Jameson, Frederick Jackson
                         Turner, and Charles and Mary Beard) to write an easy-to-read
                         "people's history" honoring the working men and
                         women who created the nation even while recognizing injus- tices and
                         portraying Depression-era 
                              America
                          as trapped in an imbalance between the
                         "haves" and the "have-nots."10 The text is more clearly polemical than the
                         illustrations, and some critics have argued that Benton distanced himself
                         from Huberman's Marxist point of view.11
                         Benton's illustrations did reflect a critical historical
                         perspective, includ- ing vignettes of social injustice (Indian removal, the
                         depredations of the industrial revolution) as well as lyrical celebrations
                         of working men (for example, lumberjacks and factory workers). The
                         endpapers of the book imagine American history as a sort of procession,
                         with a winding fron- tier caravan rising to a crest as the driver of the
                         covered wagon gestures to the future, while on a parallel track the jagged
                         lines and dark smoke of the industrial revolution provide an image of both
                         power and impend- ing disaster. [plates 14, 15] From start to finish, and
                         throughout the book, Benton's illustrations explicated what he had
                         called "the peoples' ... action on
                         the opening land" and the social consequences of 
                              America
                          's march through history.
                    As he turned to the 
                              Indiana
                          project, Benton brought with him a set of historical themes
                         and concerns as well as a pressing question about the nature of the future.
                         He called the 
                              Indiana
                          Murals "the realization of a project that I have had
                         in mind for fifteen years ... a history of the 
                              United States
                          which would unroll progressively the social and environ-
                         mental changes of the country from the savage Indian to the present days of
                         our machine culture." He added, "History was not a
                         scholarly study for me but a drama. I saw it not as a succession of events
                         but as a continuous flow of action having its climax in my own immediate
                         expe- rience."12 Like the projects preceding
                         them, the 
                              Indiana
                          Murals would take their audience on a tour of the past in
                         order to question the present and the future. 
                    
                         10Leo Huberman, "We, The
                                   People" ( 
                                   New
                                        York
                               , 1932), vii, 335-48.
                         11Nanette Esseck Brewer, "Benton as
                              Hoosier Historian: Constructing a Visual Narrative in the 
                                   Indiana
                               Murals," in Foster, et al., Thomas
                                   Hart Benton and the 
                                        Indiana
                                    Murals, 145; Erika Doss, Benton,
                                   Pollock, and the Politics of Modernism, 113-14.
                         12Thomas Hart Benton, "A Dream
                              Fulfilled," quoted in Foster, et al., Thomas
                                   Hart Benton and the 
                                        Indiana
                                    Murals, facing page 32.
                    
                    
                    Benton thus brought a number of factors to bear on his mural for the 
                              Indiana
                          Hall at the Century of Progress Exposition: a tradition of
                         American utopian thinking, an awareness of radical economic critique made
                         more salient by the crisis of the Great Depression, and a desire to create
                         a dramatic and dynamic people's history. Appropriately for the
                         Century of Progress, he created a walk through history to provoke thoughts
                         about the past and also about the future. Spectators entered the room
                         beneath the paired images of aboriginal inhabitants of the state:
                         prehistoric "Mound Builders" who were represented as
                         skilled artisans, and "The Indians" whose hunter-gatherer
                         culture offered arriving Europeans a model for environmentally harmonious
                         living. Walking for- ward, the spectator could see the two sides of the
                         room simultaneously, following the story of industrial development on one
                         wall and cultural development on the other. The panels were crowded with
                         figures and vignettes designed to attract the spectator's
                         attention: an enormous fig- ure of Abraham Lincoln with an axe, a scene
                         from the Underground Railroad, covered wagons, steamboats, railroads,
                         soldiers marching opti- mistically to the Civil War in Industrial panel 6
                         [plate 3] and returning home again, tattered and wounded, in Cultural panel
                         6. In harmony with the theme of progress, hopeful images brought the murals
                         to a con- clusion, with the founding of the university in Cultural panel 9
                         and the establishment of powerful industrial landscapes in Industrial
                         panels 9 and 10. [plate 4] At the same time, Benton's critical
                         vision of American life did not omit ominous images such as a gathering of
                         the Ku Klux Klan in Cultural panel 10 [plate 9] and incipient labor
                         violence in Industrial panel 9. At the exit, paired images were again
                         brought togeth- er: " 
                              Indiana
                          Puts Her Trust in Thought" to conclude the cultural
                         panels and " 
                              Indiana
                          Puts Her Trust in Work" at the end of the industrial
                         panels. [plates 10, 5] Walking through the space, the visitor was plunged
                         into a dream-like recapitulation of history, and as the images flowed by,
                         the very figures on the walls seemed to be looking sometimes forward and
                         sometimes backward.
                    To take one example of the pairing of forward- and backward-look- ing images,
                         Industrial panel 8, "The Farmer Up and Down," and
                         Cultural panel 7, "Woman's Place," almost faced
                         each other across the hall. [plate 7] Both panels feature a mule-drawn
                         conveyance, and in both cases, the drivers follow a path that leads them
                         deeper into the scene. Under the red-white-and-blue-striped sky that binds
                         the two sides of the mural together, the farmer in Industrial panel 8
                         pauses his mowing machine on a grassy rise, looking down on a prosperous
                         farm  scene below. The natural
                         landscape, which had been the setting for ear- lier panels such as
                         "The Pioneers" and "Home Industry," has
                         been trans- formed into a scene of cultivation, with cows, chickens, pigs,
                         farm equipment, and fields of grain. But the farmer is looking backward,
                         against the flow of the mural's march toward industrialization; by
                         1933 the farm population was shrinking throughout the country, and the
                         golden grain tsunami that sweeps from the fields to the farmer's
                         wagon may be as fanciful as the farm paradise imagined in the Norwegian
                         folk- song "Oleana," published in English in Depression
                         America: 
                              In Oleanna land is free The wheat and corn just plant
                                   themselves Then grow a good four feet a day While on
                                   your bed you rest yourself.13
                          Benton's peaceful farm scene is a survival from the past,
                         and the black cloud above the farmer's head comes from the
                         smokestack of the factory that dominates the next panel, "Coal,
                         Gas, Oil, Brick."
                    By contrast, the courting couple in Cultural panel 7,
                         "Woman's Place," is headed toward the future,
                         under the same red-white-and-blue cloudscape. [plate 7] They pass the scene
                         of a woman's club meeting that brings together black and white
                         women in front of the portrait of Frances Wright, advocate of
                         women's rights. Driving through the natural landscape, where a
                         bower of trees containing a swimming hole offers an idyllic playground for
                         mischievous boys, the couple's mule-drawn car- riage heads down a
                         winding road that takes them to the new world of the city, with its heady
                         mix of entertainment and the arts in the next seg- ment, Cultural panel 8.
                         Standing in the middle of the room, the specta- tor could look from one
                         side of the mural to the other to experience the simultaneous pull of past
                         and future. In one panel, the traditional farmer looks back wistfully to an
                         agrarian world of remembered prosperity while on the other side, the young
                         couple drives forward through a transforming natural environment into the
                         future.
                    
                         13"Oleana," adapted from
                              Norwegian ballad published in 1936, words by Pete Seeger and Alan
                              Lomax. From Alan Lomax, The Folk Songs of North America
                                   in the English Language ( 
                                   Garden City
                              , 
                                   N.Y.
                               , 1960), 88.
                    
                    
                     At a world's fair dedicated to the notion of an achievable future
                         of progress facilitated by technology, Benton's 
                              Indiana
                          Murals looked to the achievements of the American people,
                         past, present, and future. The fair lured its visitors with a promise that
                         the romance of science would bring a better tomorrow. Benton concluded his
                         march through history with a more considered suggestion: 
                              Indiana
                          --and the nation--could put its trust in work and in thought.
                         As Erika Doss has written, his message res- onated deeply with the early
                         New Deal: it implied that the people held the key to
                         cultural and industrial regeneration.14 Looking
                         backward without illusions to a past that recognized conflict, injustice,
                         and loss, Benton nonetheless provided a hopeful vision of the future. 

                    
                         14Erika Doss, Benton, Pollock, and the Politics
                              of Modernism, 107-111.
                    
               
               
               
                    Art for 
                              America
                          : Race in Thomas Hart Benton's Murals,
                         1919-1936
                    AUSTEN BARRON BAILLY
                    In 1933, Thomas Hart Benton published a short essay in 
                              
                                   Indiana
                               , A Hoosier History to accompany the reproductions
                         of his recently com- pleted 
                              Indiana
                          Murals. Powerfully entitled "A Dream
                         Fulfilled," Benton's essay actually addressed the
                         specifics of the 
                              Indiana
                          Murals only in the last two paragraphs. Instead, the artist
                         focused on the devel- opment of his dream to paint a history of the 
                              United States
                          , writing that "[t]his mural painting of 
                              Indiana
                          sees the realization of a project that I have had in mind for
                         fifteen years. In 1919 I set about making a history of the 
                              United States
                          ... I saw that for all the talk on the subject there could be
                         no American Art unless its form was generated in the midst of meanings and
                         values that were American."1
                    The project to which Benton refers in his essay and this opening quote is his
                              American Historical Epic (1919-1928).2 The "self-commis- 
                              Austen Barron Bailly is assistant curator of American art at the 
                                        Los Angeles County
                                    Museum of Art.
                              1Thomas H. Benton, "A Dream
                                   Fulfilled," reprinted in Kathleen A. Foster, Nanette
                                   Esseck Brewer, and Margaret Contompasis, Thomas Hart
                                        Benton and the 
                                             Indiana
                                         Murals ( 
                                        Bloomington
                                    , 
                                        Ind.
                                    , 2000), facing p. 32.
                              2Austen Barron Bailly, "Painting
                                   the 'American Historical Epic': Thomas Hart
                                   Benton and Race, 1919-1936" (Ph.D. diss., University of
                                   California, 
                                        Santa Barbara
                                    , 2009).
                         
                          sioned" Epic was Benton's earliest attempt at the kind of
                         large-scale, commissioned public murals for which he became famous in the
                              1930s.3 Although he had no building in which to
                         house the project, Benton con- ceived of a series of up to seventy-five
                         mural panels, divided into chap- ters covering the entire history of the 
                              United States
                          from its discovery through the 1920s.
                         "Discovery," "Palisades,"
                         "Aggression," "Prayer,"
                         "Retribution" (chapter one); "Clearing the
                         Land," "Planting," "The
                         Slaves," "The Witch" (chapter two);
                         "The Pathfinder," [plate 11] "Over the
                         Mountain," "The Jesuits," "Struggle for
                         the Wilderness," "Lost Hunting Ground" [plate
                         12] (chapter three) are the original titles of the fourteen completed American Historical Epic mural panels, first con- ceived
                         in 1919 as History of the 
                                   United
                                        States
                              
                         .4 Publicly exhibited in 
                              New
                                   York
                          between 1923 and 1928, the murals did not lead to a commission
                         for Benton, and he never sold a single panel from the series. After nearly
                         a decade of work, he abandoned the project.
                    In the Epic, Benton treated American historical subject
                         matter in provocative ways. He initially tried to determine
                         "meanings and values that were American" by ignoring the
                         conventional patriotic, celebratory, and heroic rhetoric of both historical
                         narrative and mural painting. Benton instead focused on the
                         nation's violent past with respect to black and Native Americans,
                         and created exaggerated, elongated, even stereo- typed or caricatured
                         figures of Indians, white settlers, and black slaves, 
                              3The 1930s murals are 
                                        
                                             America
                                         Today (The New School Murals), 1929-30,
                                   AXA Equitable Financial Inc., 
                                        New
                                             York
                                    ; The Arts of Life in 
                                             America
                                        
                                    (The Whitney Murals), 1932, 
                                        New Britain
                                    Museum of American Art, 
                                        New Britain
                                    , 
                                        Conn.
                                    ; The 
                                             Indiana
                                         Murals, 1933 (Century of Progress
                                   Exhibition, 
                                        Chicago
                                    , 
                                        Ill.
                                    ), Indiana University, 
                                        Bloomington
                                    ; A Social History of the State of 
                                             Missouri
                                        
                                   , 1936, House Lounge, State Capitol, 
                                        Jefferson City
                                    , 
                                        Missouri
                                    . Only the 
                                        Missouri
                                    mural is in situ in its original location.
                              4Major studies of Benton's art,
                                   including discussions of the Epic, are Henry
                                   Adams, Thomas Hart Benton: An American Original
                                   ( 
                                        Kansas City
                                    , 
                                        Mo.
                                    , 1989); Matthew Baigell, Thomas Hart
                                        Benton (
                                        New
                                             York
                                    , 1974); Erika Doss, Benton, Pollock,
                                        and the Politics of Modernism: From Regionalism to Abstract
                                        Expressionism ( 
                                        Chicago
                                    , 1991); J. Richard Gruber, "Thomas Hart
                                   Benton: Teaching and Art Theory" (Ph.D. diss.,
                                   University of Kansas, 1987). Benton's two
                                   autobiographies are also important sources: Thomas Hart Benton,
                                        An Artist in 
                                             America
                                        
                                    ( 
                                        New
                                             York
                                    , 1937); Thomas Hart Benton, An Artist
                                        in 
                                             America
                                        
                                   , 3rd revised ed. ( 
                                        Columbia
                                    , 
                                        Mo.
                                    , 1968). The phrase "self-
                                   commissioned" was applied to the mural series in
                                   "Thomas H. Benton--American Modern," The Survey, 57 (October 1, 1926). It was not
                                   until the significant juncture of December 1928, when Benton
                                   abandoned the series and published a defense of his project, that
                                   he publicly assigned this title to these murals. He took his
                                   title from Lewis Mumford's 1927 article about the
                                   artist. Lewis Mumford, "An American Epic in
                                   Paint," The New Republic, 50 (April 6,
                                   1927). In Benton's own essay, he asserted that as he
                                   worked on the murals his "conception of an American
                                   Historical Epic grew." See Thomas H. Benton,
                                   "My American Epic in Paint," Creative Art, 3 (December 1928), xxxi-xxxvi.
                         
                          which he superimposed over invented
                         scenes of American history. He also recast the nation's most
                         celebrated historical themes--discovery, religion, westward expansion--as
                         its most ambivalent and revealing moments by confronting the racial
                         inequities embedded in the popular experience of these histories.
                    As he noted in his 
                              Indiana
                          essay, "History was not a scholarly study for me but
                         a drama. ... The recorded parts of conventional history were, in my
                         conception, subordinated to the more tremendous facts of com- mon existence
                         where man and his tools, under the constant pressure of every-day need,
                         changed the face of a continent and became themselves something different
                         in the process. And it was to this something differ- ent, the final
                         involved and contradictory complex of American life, that I consecrated my
                              history."5 Underlying these descriptions
                         of his Epic is Benton's ongoing subtext, one he
                         never openly articulated but to which his art attests: For Benton, 
                              America
                          's "drama," 
                              America
                          's "tremendous facts of common
                         existence," its "pressure," its
                         "difference" from Europe, and its "involved and
                         contradictory complex," were all found in the nation's
                         race relations.
                    Like many other cultural producers such as Van Wyck Brooks, whose seminal
                         essay "On Creating a Usable Past" had appeared in 1918,
                         Benton turned to American history in order to re-imagine the
                         nation's past in relation to its present.6 But
                         rather than look to the past as a model, he sought to make American history
                         conceptually and visually relevant to his own moment. Benton's
                         preoccupation with racial figures and American history after World War I
                         unavoidably connects the Epic to the related citizenship
                         debates of the late teens and early 1920s. The marginalized bodies and
                         histories suggest a contested notion of an American body, both in a
                         political and visual sense, and underscore the identity questions,
                         including both Benton's and 
                              America
                          's own artistic identities, that marked the era.
                    This was a period bracketed by the release of D.W Griffith's racist
                         epic motion picture, Birth of a Nation (1915), and the
                         1924 enactment of the Immigration Act (National Origins Act)--which
                         drastically aimed to arrest the nation's changing demography--and
                         the Indian Citizenship 
                              5Thomas H. Benton, "A Dream
                                   Fulfilled."
                              6Van Wyck Brooks, "On Creating a
                                   Usable Past," The Dial; a Semi-monthly
                                        Journal of Literary Criticism, Discussion, and
                                        Information, 64 (April 11, 1918), 337-41.
                         
                          Act, which finally granted all
                         American Indians citizenship. The inter- vening years were fractious ones,
                         defined by influential events: munici- pal and federal Americanization
                         efforts carried out in 
                              New
                                   York
                          around World War I; the violent race riots of the summer of
                         1919, erupting nationwide as Benton conceived the Epic;
                         extensive disenfranchisement in spite of the ratification of
                         women's suffrage in 1919; and debates over revisions to 
                              U.S.
                          history textbooks for 
                              New York
                                   City
                          public schools between 1921 and 1922, just when Benton was
                         developing his revision- ist version of American history.7 The Epic intersected with widespread and
                         diverse attempts to construct American history and to define, or re-
                         define, the 
                              United States
                          and its people.
                    To confront the nation's exploitative history meant implicating and
                         challenging entrenched racism and post-World War I nativist sentiments of "
                              America
                          Firstism," attitudes that threatened the viability of
                         American democracy.8 Since he set the entire Epic ostensibly in the nation's
                         "prehistory" (the second-to-last panel references the
                         French and Indian Wars), a mythic time before the official formation of the 
                              United States
                          , his invented scenes from American history operate in a kind
                         of jumbled historical limbo. The cycle is akin to an unending odyssey-a
                         deliberately unfulfilled and incomplete journey to tolerance and full
                         democracy, the success of which was still deeply uncertain in the early
                         1920s. The murals question where this national journey would end--in what
                         kind of 
                              America
                          ? The titles of the panels that close each chapter--
                         "Retribution," "Religion," and
                         "The Lost Hunting Ground"--invite the question of how
                         Benton's Epic could possibly offer an
                         "official" picture of new nationhood. Not surprisingly,
                         the exposed racism, violence, and 
                              7For an overview of the debate over 
                                        U.S.
                                    History textbook revisions for 
                                        New
                                             York City
                                    public schools see Chapter Five,
                                   "Anglo-Saxonism and the Revolt against the
                                   Professors" in Joseph Moreau, Schoolbook
                                        Nation: Conflicts over American History Textbooks from the
                                        Civil War to the Present ( 
                                        Ann Arbor
                                    , 
                                        Mich.
                                    , 2003).
                              8Benton's vehemence is still
                                   evident in his 1951 description of " 
                                        America
                                    Firstism ... as respon- sible for some of the worst
                                   and most irresponsible demagoguery our country has ever known.
                                   ... It rose to a sudden and renewed strength immediately after
                                   the First World War when the failure of Woodrow Wilson's
                                   world idealism before the brute chauvinisms of Clemenceau and the
                                   English vengeance complexes of Lloyd George became apparent. The
                                   dissolution of the Wilsonian democratic world dream before the
                                   loot hungers of Europe forced 
                                        America
                                    prompt- ly back on herself... the initial moves here
                                   were atrocious. ... The Ku Klux Klan with its anti- Negro,
                                   anti-Jew, and anti-Catholic platform stalked, white-robed and
                                   sinister, over the land ... For nearly two years violence and
                                   counterviolence ruled over the postwar return of 
                                        America
                                    to itself." Thomas Hart Benton,
                                   "American Regionalism: A Personal History of the
                                   Movement," in An American in Art: A
                                        Professional and Technical Autobiography ( 
                                        Lawrence
                                    , 
                                        Kan.
                                    , 1969), 157-58.
                         
                          critique unexpectedly integral to the
                         series overstepped conventional bounds for murals intended as public art
                         and implicitly antagonized mainstream viewers. The failure of the murals
                         was arguably highly over- determined.
                    Toni Morrison has charged that "American means white."9 With its images of white, black, and Native
                         Americans--their bodies together-- the Epic had tried to
                         challenge mainstream views of who constituted the American people and what
                         constituted American character. It also con- fronted contemporary race
                         theory, in which "native American," had become defined by
                         Madison Grant as the "purely Nordic, but also Teutonic, a very
                         large majority being Anglo-Saxon ... the blood was almost purely Saxon,
                         Anglian, and Dane."l0 Even picturing white as
                         a broad and general category, perpetually in opposition to the interests of
                         prominently depicted blacks and Indians, did not neatly align with dom-
                         inant Anglo-Saxon conceptions of what was "white" in
                         1910s and 1920s 
                              America
                          ."11 In this vein, the imagery in
                         Benton's Epic that posited white, black, and
                         Indian as all inherently American conjured and complicated biological and
                         national theories about race, implicitly contributing to fears that a pure
                         Anglo-Saxon "American" race would be weakened and
                         eventually be destroyed by miscegenation.12 Matthew
                         Guterl has stressed that Grant's " 'new science
                         of race' emphasized--above everything else-- 
                              9Toni Morrison, Playing in the
                                        Dark: Whiteness and the Literary Imagination ( 
                                        New
                                             York
                                    , 1993), 64.
                              10Madison Grant, The Passing of
                                        the White Race, or the Racial Basis of European History
                                   ( 
                                        New
                                             York
                                    , 1916), 74. Reprinted annually in revised editions
                                   through 1924 (with the exception of 1920), Grant's
                                   theories were propounded for nearly a decade and were
                                   instrumental to the for- mulation of the Quota Law of 1921, which
                                   expanded the 1917 Immigration Act and provided the foundation for
                                   the passage of the restrictive 1924 Immigration Act.
                              11Driving the framework of
                                   "national origins" was the categorization of
                                   "newcomers from southern and eastern Europe as different
                                   from the whiter and longer established northern and western
                                   European migrants and from the non-white Chinese and other
                                   'Asiatics,'" according to David
                                   Roediger. David Roediger, Working toward Whiteness:
                                        How 
                                             America
                                        's Immigrants Became White: The Strange
                                        Journey from 
                                             Ellis
                                                  Island
                                         to the Suburbs ( 
                                        Cambridge
                                    , 
                                        Mass.
                                    , 2005), 6. Not until well into the twentieth
                                   century were "Italian, Slav, Greek, German, French,
                                   Irish, and other European races...gathered under the term
                                   'Caucasian' . . . and . .. unified as
                                   'conclusive- ly' white according to Matthew
                                   Jacobson." Ibid., 7.
                              12Politicians sought to
                                   "protect" what Senator Ellison DuRant Smith of 
                                        South Carolina
                                    described in 1924 in his now infamous speech
                                   "Shut the Door," as "the largest
                                   percentage of any country in the world of the pure, unadulterated
                                   Anglo-Saxon stock." Ellison DuRant Smith,
                                   "Speech (April 9, 1924)," 68th Congress
                                   Congressional Record, 1st Session, vol. 65 (1924), online at
                                   http://historymatters.gmu.edu/d/5080 (accessed April 10, 2008).
                                   Benton's
                         
                          the biological basis of race and race
                         traits. The body, not the home, was the foundation of the success or
                         failure of the race."13 Benton's
                         fixation on the American body in the Epic implied
                         generally that Euro- Americans and American Indians were the founding races
                         of the 
                              United States
                          . With the introduction of the 1925 panel "The
                         Slaves," Benton effectively represented an entirely new concept of
                         an "American race."
                    The racial content of Benton's American cycle, which he described
                         somewhat cryptically in his 1928 defense as "specific human
                         meaning," "insistent meaning," "shapes
                         that were significant in their own right," or, in closing,
                         "a genuine world also in its context," generated a kind
                         of speechlessness, even for the artist.14 Reviews of
                         the Epic circumvented the discussion of racial
                         representation almost entirely.15 The murals
                         demonstrate a profound ambivalence about the meanings generated by the
                         invented types of historical American racial figures they depicted, imagery
                         that Benton would try to clarify in subsequent murals.
                    As Benton suggested in "A Dream Fulfilled," a consideration
                         of his Epic--which represented an unprecedented, even
                         radical, approach to public art--is an important precursor to any
                         discussion of his later murals. I believe that Benton's failure to
                         engage viewers with the impli- cations of the racial inequities he depicted
                         compelled him to change his approach to race in his art. In the discussion
                         that follows, I explore the visual strategies for racial representation
                         that Benton developed in his 1930s public murals in his effort to connect
                         more cooperatively with American audiences--implying, in the Toni Morrison
                         sense, a white- majority public. These strategies built upon, but
                         necessarily departed from, the critical approaches he had invented for the
                              Epic.
                    
                         own marriage to the daughter of Italian immigrants defied what was
                              known as the "law of inherited tendency" and
                              renounced current attitudes about miscegenation. Proponents of
                              eugenics would have constituted Benton's marriage to Rita
                              Piacenza as "race suicide."
                         13Matthew Pratt Guterl, The Color of
                                   Race in 
                                        America
                                    , 1900-1940 ( 
                                   Cambridge
                              , 
                                   Mass.
                               , 2001), 40.
                         14Benton, "My American Epic in
                              Paint."
                         15The published reviews are analyzed in chapter
                              five of my dissertation. James Snead, a scholar of William Faulkner,
                              has studied the ways in which "racial divisions show their
                              flaws best in written form." See Morrison, Playing in the Dark, 66. Snead identified several
                              fundamental techniques employed by white artists to deal with the
                              presence of the racial other in their work and in American society. I
                              applied the techniques not only to Benton's murals but to the
                              reviews published about them. In several key instances, the published
                              reviews reveal the author's ten- dency to conflate, deflect,
                              dismiss, talk around, even render incoherent the racial presence they
                              encountered in Benton's Epic.
                    
                    
                    Black and Native Americans appear in all four commissioned mural cycles--
                                   America
                               Today, The Arts of Life in 
                                   America
                              
                         , The 
                                   Indiana
                               Murals, and A Social History of the
                              State of 
                                   Missouri
                              --in fundamentally different ways. Visual analysis of
                         these more famous murals suggests that Benton still tried to emphasize
                         marginalized contributions of blacks and Indians to American society.
                         However, he no longer attempted to express their fundamental
                         interconnectedness to mainstream white 
                              America
                          in the caustic figural inventions characterizing the Epic, turning instead to a more overt use of
                         stereotyping and caricature situated in readily identifiable regional,
                         chronological, or historical contexts.
                    In an effort to ground his art in direct observations of 
                              America
                          rather than in imaginative, even mythic, conceptions of its
                         past, Benton started traveling extensively around the 
                              United States
                          beginning in the summer of 1924. His travels encouraged him to
                         revise his critical notion of a distinctly American historical epic in
                         favor of an "epic of the conti- nent," as art critic
                         Lloyd Goodrich characterized Benton's drawings in 1929.16 Benton later described this period: "I
                         started going places ... and plowed around in the back countries where old
                         manners persisted and old prejudices were sustained ... I took them as they
                              came."17 This state- ment not only
                         reflects his growing interest in the nation's regions, but also
                         suggests the beginnings of a certain reticence in viscerally con- fronting
                         old manners and old prejudices, as he had in the Epic
                         with both art historical and historical traditions and race. In
                         "taking them as they came," Benton realized that 
                              America
                         's specific inhabitants and regional histories could
                         function directly as visual sources and organizing "acts"
                         for his public murals.
                    
                                   America
                               Today was Benton's first attempt to put his
                         drawings of regional types and traditions to direct use and to employ a
                         regional orga- nizational structure.18 He drastically
                         reduced the presence of American Indians; there is only one Indian in the
                         entire series, a diminutive figure at the lower edge of "Changing
                         West." This was in marked contrast to the visual equivalent that
                         he had established, in chapter three of his Epic, between
                         "The Pathfinder" (1926), the first panel, and
                         "Lost Hunting 
                              16Lloyd Goodrich, "New Benton
                                   Drawings," 
                                             New York
                                         Times, October 27, 1929.
                              17Thomas Hart Benton, An Artist
                                        in 
                                             America
                                        
                                   , 4th rev. ed. (
                                        Columbia
                                   , 
                                        Mo.
                                   , 1983), 77.
                              18The most comprehensive study of these
                                   murals is Emily Braun and Thomas Branchick, Thomas
                                        Hart Benton: The 
                                             America
                                         Today Murals (
                                        Williamstown
                                   , 
                                        Mass.
                                    , 1985).
                         
                         
                         
                              
                                        Chicago
                                    Century of Progress International Exposition poster,
                                   1933 Courtesy Library of Congress Prints and Photographs
                                   Division PLATE 1
                         
                         
                         
                              
                                             Indiana
                                         Murals, Industrial Panel 4, "Home
                                   Industry" Courtesy Indiana University Art Museum.
                                   Photograph by Michael Cavanagh and Kevin Montague. PLATE
                                   2
                         
                         
                         
                              
                                             Indiana
                                         Murals, Industrial Panel 6,
                                   "Civil War" Courtesy Indiana University Art
                                   Museum. Photograph by Michael Cavanagh and Kevin Montague.
                                   PLATE 3
                         
                         
                         
                              
                                             Indiana
                                         Murals, Industrial Panel 9,
                                   "Coal, Gas, Oil, Brick" Courtesy Indiana
                                   University Art Museum. Photograph by Michael Cavanagh and Kevin
                                   Montague. PLATE 4
                         
                         
                         
                              
                                             Indiana
                                         Murals, Industrial Panel 11, "
                                        Indiana
                                    Puts Her Trust in Work" Courtesy Indiana
                                   University Art Museum. Photograph by Michael Cavanagh and Kevin
                                   Montague. PLATE 5
                         
                         
                         
                              
                                             Indiana
                                         Murals, Cultural Panel 4, "Early
                                   Schools and Communities' Courtesy Indiana University Art
                                   Museum. Photograph by Michael Cavanagh and Kevin Montague.
                                   PLATE 6
                         
                         
                         
                              
                                             Indiana
                                         Murals, Cultural Panel 7,
                                   "Woman's Place" Courtesy Indiana
                                   University Art Museum. Photograph by Michael Cavanagh and Kevin
                                   Montague. PLATE 7
                         
                         
                         
                              
                                             Indiana
                                         Murals, Cultural Panel 9,
                                   "Colleges and City Life" Courtesy Indiana
                                   University Art Museum. Photograph by Michael Cavanagh and Kevin
                                   Montague. PLATE 8
                         
                         
                         
                              
                                             Indiana
                                         Murals, Cultural Panel 11,
                                   "Parks, the Circus, the Klan, the Press"
                                   Courtesy IU Archives PLATE 9
                         
                         
                         
                              
                                             Indiana
                                         Murals, Cultural Panel 11, "
                                        Indiana
                                    Puts Her Trust in Thought" Courtesy IU
                                   Archives PLATE 10
                         
                         
                         
                              The American Historical Epic,
                                   "The Pathfinder" Courtesy The Nelson-Atkins
                                   Museum of Art, 
                                        Kansas City
                                   , 
                                        Missouri
                                   . Bequest of the artist, F75-21/6. Photograph by
                                   Jamison Miller. Copyright T. H. Benton and R. P. Benton
                                   Testamentary Trusts, UMB Bank Trustee, Licensed by VAGA, 
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 
                                        NY
                                   . PLATE 11
                         
                         
                         
                              The American Historical Epic,
                                   "Lost Hunting Ground" Courtesy The
                                   Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art, 
                                        Kansas City
                                   , 
                                        Missouri
                                   . Bequest of the artist, F75-21/10. Photograph by
                                   Jamison Miller. Copyright T. H. Benton and R. P Benton
                                   Testamentary Trusts, UMB Bank Trustee, Licensed by VAGA, 
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 
                                        NY
                                   . PLATE 12
                         
                         
                         
                              A Social History of the State of 
                                        Missouri
                                    , "Pioneer Days and Early Settlers
                                   Copyright T. H. Benton and R. P. Benton Testamentary Trusts, UMB
                                   Bank Trustee, Licensed by VAGA, 
                                        New
                                             York
                                    , 
                                        NY
                                   . PLATE 13
                         
                         
                         
                              Thomas H. Benton, front endpaper for Leo Huberman,
                                        We the People (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   : Harper & Brothers, 1932.) PLATE 14
                         
                         
                         
                              Thomas H. Benton, back endpaper for Leo Huberman, We the People (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   : Harper & Brothers, 1932.) PLATE 15
                         
                         
                         
                              Thomas Hart Benton at work in his IU studio, 1941
                                   Courtesy IU Archives PLATE 16
                         
                          Ground" (1927-1928), the
                         last. [plates 11, 12] Explicitly paired in a parenthetical arrangement of
                         the figures, each scene also showed native dwellings: Navajo hogans and a
                         quintessential pioneer's log cabin. The visual pairing functions
                         not necessarily as an example of progress or eco- nomic determinism, but
                         rather as a leveling. It sets up a parallel notion of the indigenous
                         structure and settlement--one Indian, one white--and the versions of
                         American history told from the "pathfinder's" or
                         Native American's perspective. Alluding to the recent legally
                         equal status of Indians as of 1924, the final chapter suggested that these
                         two indigenous narratives were unequivocal and inseparable, but
                         competing.
                    As the Epic unflinchingly shows, Benton saw Native
                         Americans as central to American history, even as they were being written
                         off in an influential history textbook authored by historian Charles Beard
                         with William C. Bagley: The History of the American
                              People. First published in 1918, Beard and Bagley's
                         mass-distributed textbook was seen as one that "would put
                         democracy into the study of history" and in which
                         "colonial 
                              America
                          is pictured as a melting pot of the races."19 However, in the pref- ace to the third edition in
                         1928, Beard and Bagley wrote that "the space given to the North
                         American Indians has been materially reduced. They are interesting and
                         picturesque, but they made no impress upon the civ- ilization of the 
                              United States
                         . In a history designed to explain the present rather than to
                         gratify curiosity and entertain, Indian habits of life and Indian wars must
                         have a very minor position."20 But
                         Benton's contempo- raneous "The Lost Hunting
                         Ground" shows the monumental Indian, equal in scale to his white
                         counterpart in "The Pathfinder." Native Americans
                         received what would be the last word in Benton's revisionist
                         American history, but influential historians, not to mention school chil-
                         dren nationwide, now saw American Indians as irrelevant to the present.
                         Increasingly mindful of creating art that would resonate with the broad-
                         est possible audience, Benton must have internalized such dismissive
                         attitudes, acknowledging that his visual "epic,"
                         prominently featuring American Indians, might make "no
                         impress." Benton abandoned the Epic that same
                         year.
                    
                         19The 
                                   California
                               State Series of the textbook had a print run of 600,000
                              copies. Charles A. Beard and William C. Bagley, The
                                   History of the American People, 3rd ed. (
                                   New
                                        York
                              , 1928). The quote is from a review in The
                                   Nation (December 7, 1918).
                         20Beard and Bagley, The History of
                                   the American People, iv.
                    
                    
                    Soon thereafter, in 
                                   America
                               Today, Benton pictured American Indians not as a
                         monumental, inevitable presence but as a literally tiny minority in
                         contemporary society, conveying the tension between their new citizenship
                         and popular stereotypes and romantic images. These factors encouraged
                         Benton to leave Indians virtually out of his vision of modern 
                              America
                          and to underscore those very stereotypes and fanciful visions
                         in his composition. In "Changing West," a cowboy and a
                         large movie camera stand to the right of the sole Indian. To his left are a
                         blond woman--possibly a Hollywood starlet--and a figure in a toque, a
                         direc- tor or cameraman. These details suggest that the Indian we see is
                         actual- ly an actor, a movie character on the set; here the Indian has gone
                         metaphorically from being an "Actor," a player in
                         American society, to merely an "actor."21 Benton has transferred the Indian's agency from real
                         history to a Western movie script, in which the Indian is a projection--
                         like the film to be--of the American imagination.
                    In contrast, African Americans represented to Benton a significant presence
                         and force in contemporary American society. Although only two major black
                         figures appear, in "Deep South" and "City
                         Building," they stand at both ends of the mural panels and anchor
                         the entire cycle. Effectively back to back, they are dressed identically,
                         and their arms are raised in similar gestures. These rural and urban black
                         figures represent the foundations of capitalist 
                              America
                          from Benton's perspective: agricul- tural
                         productivity and modern industrialization, both of them depend- ent on
                         black labor.
                    The cotton picker's and the driller's arms encircle their
                         faces. Benton's framing device is a subtle visual metaphor
                         emphasizing each black head, symbolizing therein a kind of psychological
                         boundary, and encapsulating in that frame certain realities of black
                         American life. In "City Building" the link is to
                         construction work: the jackhammer and the driller's chiseled face
                         are enclosed within the dynamically com- pressed space of his powerful,
                         muscular arms--features Benton has greatly exaggerated and heightened; in
                         "Deep South," the link is to the region's
                         dominant agricultural system, then referred to as King Cotton. 
                              21I am indebted to Peter C. Rowley, graduate
                                   student in 
                                        U.S.
                                    history, Indiana University, 
                                        Bloomington
                                    for these perceptive observations and the persuasive
                                   interpretation of the Indian in "Changing
                                   West." Rowley shared these ideas with me at
                                   "Thomas Hart Benton's 
                                        Indiana
                                    Murals at 75: Public Art and the Public
                                   University," a public conference held at Indiana
                                   University, April 25-26, 2008, at which I presented a version of
                                   this article.
                         
                          The cotton picker's face is
                         set against a white background within the rigid square created by his
                         upraised arms. The white highlights in the face function as literal and
                         metaphorical reflections of white--they ref- erence minstrelsy, suggest how
                         white and black relations framed and structured life in the Deep South, and
                         literally show against the black skin the white reflection from the pile of
                         cotton emptied from the large sack. The unfilled bag and the vacant stare
                         may suggest the emptiness and seeming inescapability of sharecropping but
                         also that this era was finally drawing to a close: the man disgorges a bag
                         of cotton, deliberate- ly turning it upside down, perhaps, amazingly, for
                         the last time. Alvin Johnson of the New School, who published an essay on
                         these murals in the early 1930s, interpreted this figure as "the
                         triumphant Negro."22
                    In 
                                   America
                               Today, Benton worked to embed the racial realities
                         he considered intrinsic to contemporary 
                              America
                         . He moved away from the Epic's
                         violent allegories implicating whites, such as the newly arrived slaves
                         being brutally whipped in "The Slaves," a panel in
                         chapter two of the Epic. Benton instead began to use race
                         in a manner more palatable to white audiences, as he had in "Over
                         the Mountains," from chapter three of the Epic.
                         In this panel, the artist had shown laborers, or slaves, as more powerfully
                         modeled than the white pioneers. Their chiseled, extraordinary musculature
                         represented a stereotypical physique desired by white culture, one
                         traditionally missing from the white bodies. Similarly, the black figures
                         in 
                                   America
                               Today were visually more promi- nent and
                         compositionally more significant than most white figures. The black body
                         could not be avoided. Benton forced viewers to acknowledge African
                         Americans, if only visually. But he did so by depicting blacks, with their
                         rippling muscles, in expected and relatively accepted roles-- as
                         construction workers or cotton pickers.
                    For his commission to decorate the Whitney Museum's reading room,
                         Benton used the regional framework to consider American popu- lar pastimes
                         across the country, what he would call the Arts of Life in 
                                   America
                              . He wrote in his 1932 publication about the murals
                         that "The Arts of Life are the popular arts and are generally
                         undisciplined ... uncritical."23 Benton tried
                         to channel this freewheeling spirit of the pop- ular, along with its
                         accompanying "assertions of value," in his words, 
                              22Alvin Johnson, Notes on the
                                        New School Murals (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , n.d.), 6.
                              23Thomas H. Benton, The Arts of
                                        Life in 
                                             America
                                        : A Series of Murals by Thomas Benton ( 
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1932), 4.
                         
                          becoming more brash in his use of
                         stereotype and caricature. He described his "Indian
                         Arts," for example, as an "instance of romantic
                         indulgence ... one does not have to be a boy scout to understand and
                         forgive this--through romance we Americans provide compensation for what we
                         actually have done to the Indian."24
                    In the "Arts of the South," however, Benton privileged the
                         section described as "Negro Singing," because the black
                         man leading the song dominates the composition. He is the largest figure,
                         at the center, and his heft and position convey the importance of Negro
                         song or spirituals to American culture--as well as their independence: it
                         is a tradition that can turn its back on "white singing,"
                         as Benton depicted.25 Yet the dual tree trunks root the
                         white and black expressions of faith and music liter- ally in the same
                         ground, and the same foliage encircles all the musicians and onlookers.
                    Consider also that what at first glance appears to be a deeply trou- bling
                         parallel at the lower edge of the mural--the black mother and child at
                         lower left next to the trash pile at lower right--may not be. The two
                         sections are the edges of a broken circle, divided by the patch of dark
                         green matter at the center. These two halves move in opposite directions.
                         Follow the mother-and-child foundation clockwise towards the blacks
                         gathered in song. On the other side, follow the trash pile counterclockwise
                         around to what Benton called "Holy Rollers," the
                         "get next to God" worshippers and singers. Benton very
                         well may have sought to link the presumed racism and hysterical
                         righteousness of evangelical southern whites to "white
                         trash," a phrase invented in the nineteenth century, while
                         elevating what he saw as the fortitude of the often-besieged black family
                         and their experience in the South.
                    However, modern American artist Stuart Davis railed against Benton's
                         depictions in the magazine Art Front in 1935, calling his
                         images 
                              24Ibid.
                              25Benton also created two ceiling panels for
                                   the Whitney commission: "Unemployment, Radical Protest,
                                   Speed" (ceiling panel 5), and "Folk and Popular
                                   Songs" (ceiling panels 7 and 8). In light of the
                                   importance of Negro song to "Arts of the
                                   South," it is highly significant that more than half of
                                   the lyrics Benton quotes in "Folk and Popular
                                   Songs" are African American songs or spirituals.
                                   "Folk and Popular Songs" consists of a pattern
                                   of rectangular boxes and a series of triangular shapes emanating
                                   from megaphone or speaker-like forms at left and right. The fif-
                                   teen different lyrics painted inside these shapes across the two
                                   panels have been identified by Benton scholar Leo Mazow, who
                                   determined the musical sources for each; nine are African
                                   American specifically. I am deeply grateful to Mazow for sharing
                                   this relevant discovery.
                         
                         
                         
                              Complex and controversial, Benton's works
                                   were--and remain--both praised and criticized. Where some see
                                   simplistically racist depictions, others find complex musings on
                                   the political, cultural, and social realities of American life
                                   and history. Arts of Life in 
                                             America
                                        , "Arts of the
                                   South." Courtesy New Britain Museum of American
                                   Art. Copyright T. H. Benton and R. P. Benton Testamentary Trusts,
                                   UMB Bank Trustee, Licensed by VAGA, 
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 
                                        NY
                                   .
                          of blacks "gross caricatures" and
                         "third rate vaudeville character cliche with the humor omitted.
                         Had they a little more wit, they would auto- matically take their place in
                         the body of propaganda which is constantly being utilized to disenfranchise
                         the Negro politically, socially, and eco- nomically."26 Intent on his criticism of Benton as racist, Davis
                         failed to appreciate the complexity of Benton's methods and the
                         fact that the muralist may have been ridiculing not blacks, but whites. In
                         addition to the "trash" foundation of the Holy Rollers,
                         Benton further undercut the perceived piety and role of religion in
                         southern life: just above the trio of black men playing a typical--to
                         Benton--game of "Craps" (a scene and title that offended
                         many, especially juxtaposed with the church), is a stooped white woman
                         heading to an outhouse adjacent to the house of worship. Unremarked upon by
                         critics is the fact that, while her driver waits and snoozes, she is surely
                         going to "crap."
                    
                         26Stuart Davis, "The 
                                   New
                                        York
                               American Scene in Art," Art
                                   Front, 1 (February 1935), 6.
                    
                    
                    Such apparently minor and vulgar details and compositional devices have been
                         overlooked. But they reveal Benton's audacious endeavor to mix
                         real observations of the life and experiences of ordinary Americans with
                         caricature and stereotype, all at the expense of ideologi- cal leftist
                         politics and urban intellectualism. Benton tried to elevate Negro song as
                         an American art while at the same time offensively lam- pooning and
                         devaluing 
                              New
                                   York
                          intellectuals and caricaturing Jews, poking fun at the
                         backwards aspects of white American life, celebrating the American folk and
                         their pastimes (including gambling and drink- ing), and embracing the
                         reality of 
                              America
                          's romance with the Indian. He wrote that
                         "practically every form is bound up with implications which take
                         away from purely plastic values. This is deliberate."27 Prominent art critic Paul Rosenfeld vilified the
                         murals, calling them "crude, gross and ungracious."28 Henry McBride, writing for the 
                                   New
                                        York
                               Sun, considered them examples of "pure
                         tabloid" that in an "unnice manner" foisted a
                         "caricturish [sic] insistence upon everything that is hectic and
                         rowdyish in the American system of living."29
                         The clear regional organization of these murals, combined with their
                         attention to the folk, could not con- tain or counteract Benton's
                         efforts to reveal authentic but contradictory aspects of life in 
                              America
                          and its implications.
                    However, other critics and audiences delighted in what cultural critic and
                         architectural historian Lewis Mumford described as "commen- tary
                         as salty as the opening chapters of 'Moby Dick' and as
                         juicy as the body of 'Huckleberry Finn.'"30
                         The Nation honored Benton with their 1932 award for the
                         "outstanding production for the year in American art."31 In 1933, Benton received from the Architectural
                         League of 
                              New
                                   York
                         --where he had shown his Epic without
                         acclaim--"the gold medal in decorative painting . .. for his
                         decoration in the Whitney Museum in 
                              27Benton, The Arts of Life in 
                                             America
                                        , 11.
                              28Paul Rosenfeld, "Ex-Reading
                                   Room," New Republic, April 12, 1933,
                                   245-6.
                              29Henry McBride, "Thomas
                                   Benton's Murals at the Whitney Museum," 
                                             New York
                                         Sun, December 10, 1932.
                              30Lewis Mumford, "The Art
                                   Galleries: Assorted Americana," The New
                                        Yorker, December 17, 1932.
                              31The description of the Nation award is McBride's. See Henry McBride,
                                   "Thomas Benton's Murals: Whitney Museum
                                   Decorations Still a Subject for Debate," 
                                             New York
                                         Sun, December 31, 1932.
                         
                          recognition of the freshness of his
                         view point, the vigor and mastery of his technique and the authentic
                         originality of his work."32
                    Despite the popularity of the Whitney murals in many camps, attacks by rival
                         artists and leading art critics in 
                              New
                                   York
                          demonstrate that Benton's attempts to encompass
                         racial history, experience, or cul- ture posed problems for elite white
                         viewers, especially his depictions of blacks, who functioned as a lightning
                         rod in Benton's art in ways that Indians did not. In this light,
                         it becomes clearer why Benton saw the 
                              Indiana
                          Murals as "a dream fulfilled." In his state
                         history of 
                              Indiana
                         , exe- cuted in 1933 for the 
                              Indiana
                          pavilion at the 
                              Chicago
                          Century of Progress International Exposition, far from the
                         rarefied reading room of 
                              New
                                   York
                          's Whitney Museum, Benton was able to provide a
                         coherent, effectively linear structure to encompass official history,
                         people's history, popular arts, and daily life, as well as
                         marginalized or silent histories for tens of thousands of Americans.33 He incorporated aspects of black and Native
                         American history into a mainstream historical narrative. As he wrote,
                         "my desire to represent a social progression made it possible for
                         me to transfer my original historical plan from the 
                              United States
                          as a whole to the state of 
                              Indiana
                         , the context of whose history is symbolical of the entire
                         country."
                    The concept of social progression was deliberately troubled in the Epic, and at odds with the regionally organized 
                                   America
                               Today and Arts of Life in 
                                   America
                              . But it was realized in the 
                              Indiana
                          Murals through a general chronology moving from prehistoric
                         times to 
                              Indiana
                          's modern industrial, educational, and cultural
                         achievements of the early twentieth century. The chronological foundation
                         of the 
                              Indiana
                          Murals rested on pre-industrial American Indian cultures. The
                         figures in "The Indians" and in "The Mound
                         Builders" are among the few very large vertical fig- ures,
                         including Lincoln, visible at left, dominating and punctuating the whole
                         composition horizontally. Benton neglected to show modern Indians in the
                         mural, but he required viewers to address the fact that American industry
                         and culture were predicated on Native American 
                              32"Citations Used in Medal Awards
                                   for Decorative Painting 1929-1938," memorandum,
                                   Architectural League of 
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , Jacques Seligmann & Co. Records, 1904-1978
                                   [bulk 1913- 1974], Archives of American Art, Smithsonian
                                   Institution, 
                                        Washington,
                                             D.C.
                                   
                              
                              33Foster et al., Thomas Hart
                                        Benton and the 
                                             Indiana
                                         Murals, 3. The well-regarded reception by
                                   about "fifty percent of viewers" of the murals,
                                   which were deemed "ultra modern" as well as
                                   "brutally truthful," is discussed by Foster on
                                   p. 22.
                         
                          precedent and achievement. They frame
                         the entire history, with the First Americans narrative here writ large.
                    What is not writ large in the 
                              Indiana
                          history are African Americans. Benton did include blacks, but
                         embedded the figures within a historical narrative presented from a white
                         perspective: abolitionists, Progressive Era reformers, even the Ku Klux
                         Klan. In "Reformers and Squatters" we see slaves being
                         helped by an abolitionist, a poster illus- trating a runaway slave is
                         featured in the Lincoln panel, and in "Parks, the Circus, the
                         Klan, the Press," a tiny black child (the only modern-era black
                         figure in the mural) is tended to by a white nurse immediately beneath a
                         small scene of a white-robed, flag-waving KKK rally. Instead of trying to
                         represent blacks in independent cultural terms, as he had attempted with
                         "Negro Singing" in the Arts of Life in 
                                   America
                              
                         , Benton backpedaled in the 
                              Indiana
                          Murals, despite the controversial inclusion of the Klan
                         scene--which continued to offend viewers, and which sparked numerous
                         protests that eventually helped to lead to Indiana University's
                         2002 decision to develop a strategic plan for institutional and financial
                         commitment to promoting and supporting diversity on campus.34 [plate 9]
                    Benton's final major mural commission of the 1930s, the Social History of the State of 
                                   Missouri
                              
                         , was structured to emphasize the inter- twined histories of black,
                         Native, and white Americans as represented in 
                              Missouri
                          . [plate 13] Towering above the ends of the room on either
                         side of the viewer are over-life-sized panels illustrating to the left (the
                         south wall), the ballad of Frankie and Johnny, and to the right (the north
                         wall), the legend of Huck Finn and Jim. Consequently, African American
                         char- acters out of Mark Twain's literary imagination and out of a
                         Reconstruction-era folk song set in a black saloon in 
                              St.
                                   Louis
                          estab- lished the mural's organizing vision. For each
                         of these panels, Benton created a pyramidal composition leading up to a
                         black American figure.
                    The mural cycle begins chronologically around Huck Finn and Jim, suggesting
                         that the foundations of the entire mural are both in this pyramidal group
                         and are also provided by the Indian trading and the black hauling lumber.
                         The white fur trader, lumberjack, and Huck Finn occupy the center of the
                         pyramid, at the pinnacle of which is Jim. At eye level (when seated in the
                         house lounge chairs) is a small vignette show- 
                              34Nick Riddle, "Black Students
                                   Protest Benton Mural," Art News, 101
                                   (May 2002).
                         
                          ing slaves being beaten. Benton did
                         not shy from including such harsh aspects of 
                              Missouri
                         's history throughout, but treasured Americana, in the
                         form of these familiar stories, was what immediately set the stage for
                         viewers. Only when one turns around to face the main entrance or to sit in
                         the chairs facing the rear (east) wall does one see the legend of Jesse
                         James, in which the train and water tower, more so than James (whose back
                         is to us) are the uppermost details. Following the scenes to the left one
                         recognizes a strong diagonal leading from the burning and lynching scene at
                         the upper right down toward the center to a now limbless, lynching-proof
                         tree, against which leans a black citizen.
                    Benton's Social History of the State of 
                                   Missouri
                               combined all types of references to American life
                         and history, but what I want to stress is that in the 
                              Missouri
                          cycle Benton relied on folklore and fiction to elevate black
                         Americans specifically to the highest symbolic positions in the murals. He
                         may have succeeded in privileging the position of black figures only by
                         emphasizing the significance of black characters in the popular imagina-
                         tion. African Americans publicly objected to the scenes of slavery and bru-
                         tality: one newspaper notice illustrated the offending vignette, described
                         as "whipping of Negro slaves in 
                              Missouri
                          in pre-Civil war days," with the heading
                         "Negroes protest new mural in 
                              Missouri
                          Capitol."35 It was American
                         literature and folklore, even with its inherent caricature, that appears to
                         have legitimized the main panels in ways that were then accept- able, and
                         may still be, to white and black audiences alike.
                    Early in his career, between 1919 and 1928, Benton sought to hold whites
                         accountable for the nation's racial divisions and democratic
                         crises through a critical history of the United States, his American Historical Epic. The alternative strategies he later
                         developed to represent race were regional, chronological, popular,
                         stereotypical, or caricatured. But these methods and the mural's
                         racial subject matter have often elicited such emotional responses that
                         Benton's approaches to race continue to be dis- missed, avoided,
                         or misunderstood. After 1928, Benton largely aban- doned efforts to
                         critique racial inequities viscerally in favor of picturing black and
                         Native Americans in non-threatening ways for a majority- white audience. He
                         came to accept, but tried to mitigate, a persistent national racial divide
                         through visual representation. During a segregated era utterly disinclined
                         to do so, Benton did represent black and Native 
                              35Undated newspaper clipping, 
                                        Missouri
                                    State Archives, 
                                        Jefferson City
                                   , 
                                        Mo.
                                   
                         
                          Americans as important, serious, and
                         inextricable subject matter for public art.
                    Throughout his career Benton grappled with questions formed by racial
                         experience in the 
                              United States
                          , questions that today compel many contemporary artists,
                         including Kara Walker, whose cut-paper silhou- ette murals summon the
                         nation's historical, "unspeakable" interracial
                              experiences.36 How can an artist publicly confront
                         historical and social injustice? What visual and narrative techniques can
                         be used to engage audiences with difficult histories and identities? In
                         conclusion, we must ask if Benton's critical methods in the 1920s,
                         or his appropriation of popular art in the form of stereotyping,
                         caricature, fiction, or folklore through the 1930s compromised or furthered
                         his unwavering goal to attend to race for American art.
                    
                         36Gwendolyn DuBois Shaw, Seeing the Unspeakable:
                              The Art of Kara Walker (
                                   Durham
                              , 
                                   N.C.
                              , 2004).
                    
               
               
               
                    Thomas Hart Benton and the Melodrama of Democracy
                    CASEY NELSON BLAKE
                    I paint sometimes to get people to criticize my
                         work," Thomas Hart Benton once said, and if that was his intention
                         he certainly succeed- ed.1 Even during the 1930s, the
                         decade when he achieved his great- est popular and commercial success,
                         Benton repeatedly came under attack from people who advanced arguments
                         familiar to those who study public art controversies today. As Kathleen A.
                         Foster explains, critics of the 
                              Indiana
                          Mural cycle objected to its inclusion of controver- sial
                         historical events--depictions of the 1920s Klan and of rock-throw- ing
                         strikers, for example--and denounced its allegedly
                         "high-brow" style as unsuitable for a public work. The
                         very selection of Benton as artist for the state pavilion at 
                              Chicago
                          's 1933 Century of Progress International Exposition
                         upset Hoosiers who mistakenly saw him as a "New Yorker"
                         likely to "make 
                              Indiana
                          a boob again."2 Benton's
                         friend Lewis Mumford had a similar perspective on the artist's
                         selection, 
                              Casey Nelson Blake is Professor of History and American Studies
                                   at Columbia University. He thanks Hannah Blake, his
                                   "guide to the melodramatic imagination, for her
                                   suggestions and wise advice."
                              1Benton quoted in Henry Adams, Thomas Hart Benton: An American Original (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1989), 267.
                              2Kathleen A. Foster, "Thomas Hart
                                   Benton and the 
                                        Indiana
                                    Murals," in Kathleen A. Foster, Nanette
                                   Esseck Brewer, and Margaret Contompasis, Thomas Hart
                                        Benton and the 
                                             Indiana
                                         Murals (
                                        Bloomington
                                    , 
                                        Ind.
                                    , 2000), 12.
                         
                          though his appraisal of the result had
                         a somewhat difference valence. Mumford delightedly informed his readers in
                         the New Yorker that "the colossal mural Thomas
                         Benton painted for the State of 
                              Indiana
                          ... is almost as if H. L. Mencken should have been chosen to
                         write the official history of 
                              Alabama
                         ."3 Wilbur Peat, director of the
                         Herron School of Art in 
                              Indianapolis
                         , was prescient in his warning. "One thing is
                         certain--his murals are going to make a lot of people mad."4 They did. And judging from the ongoing debate about
                         the Klan scene, they still do.
                    The controversies did not let up when Benton moved on to his murals cycle for
                         the state capitol building in 
                              Missouri
                         , where he was a native son.5 [plate 13]
                         Again, critics complained of historical inaccura- cies, mean-spirited
                         exaggerations of their state's flaws, and what they saw as the
                         imposition of a cosmopolitan worldview--whether mod- ernist or
                         socialist--on local traditions. A prominent 
                              Kansas
                                   City
                          busi- nessman told a reporter for one of that city's
                         newspapers: "They do not show 
                              Missouri
                          in a proper light. 
                              Missouri
                          is not proud of hangings and Negro honky-tonks. She is not
                         proud of the whipping of slaves, the slave block and Jesse James
                              holdups."6 The 
                              Independence
                          newspaper protested, "
                              Missouri
                          is not a houn' dog state. The whole thing is sordid
                         and rather disgusting and it's more like a cartoon which picks out
                         and emphasizes the weaknesses and extravagance of early 
                              Missouri
                          life and leaves out the mighty purposes, the strong
                         characters, the ideals of men and women who built 
                              Missouri
                         ." A 
                              Tulsa
                         , 
                              Oklahoma
                         , paper concurred: "Mr. Benton has lied about 
                              Missouri
                         . He has desecrated its capitol walls declaring that 
                              Missouri
                         's social history is one of utter depravity. That is a lie--
                              Missouri
                         's social history is a story of growing refinement and
                              nobility."7
                    Complaints of this kind differ in their particulars from criticisms leveled
                         in recent years against public art installations, particularly 
                              3Lewis Mumford, "West, South, and
                                   Across the Harlem," in Mumford on Modern
                                        Art in the 1930s, ed. Robert Wojtowicz (
                                        Berkeley
                                   , 
                                        Calif.
                                   , 2007), 94.
                              4Foster, "Thomas Hart Benton and
                                   the 
                                        Indiana
                                    Murals," in Foster, et al., Thomas Hart Benton and the 
                                             Indiana
                                         Murals, 13.
                              5See Michael Kammen, Visual
                                        Shock: A History of Art Controversies in American
                                        Culture ( 
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 2006), 135-38.
                              6Quoted in Adams, Thomas Hart
                                        Benton, 269.
                              7Ibid., 270.
                         
                          abstract, non-representational
                              works.8 But in many respects Benton's
                         critics raised issues that have flared up in public art controversies ever
                         since: the artist's relationship to his or her audience; the
                         appropriateness of a given work as a civic symbol representing local
                         traditions and aspi- rations; the unfamiliarity of many members of the
                         public with avant- garde modes of representation; insensitivity to racial
                         histories that hurt and shame; and the age-old tension between our desire
                         to represent our- selves as we are and our tendency to idealize ourselves
                         as we wish to be. To his credit, Benton went out of his way to answer
                         critics in print and public meetings--something that most of his successors
                         in the mod- ernist public art movement of the late twentieth century failed
                         to do. It is not clear how successful those efforts at persuasion were in
                         the end. Matthew Murray, the Works Progress Administration administrator
                         for 
                              Missouri
                         , eliminated favorable references to the mural from the WPA
                         state guidebook. When members of the Federal Writers Project protest- ed
                         the changes, Murray responded: "'I wouldn't hang
                         him on my shit- house wall. Why don't you write about our
                         beautiful roads instead? Now there's something really worth
                         writing about.'"9
                    Despite their familiarity, the controversies surrounding Benton's
                         murals nonetheless differed in significant ways from debates over other
                         works of public art during his lifetime and our own. Because of their
                         subject matter, medium, and location, it is not surprising that the 
                              Indiana
                          and 
                              Missouri
                          cycles generated different responses from, say, Diego
                         Rivera's Rockefeller Center mural or Richard Serra's Tilted Arc sculpture. Erika Doss's Benton, Pollock, and the Politics of Modernism is an
                         indispensable guide to the ideological and artistic contexts for the
                         attacks on Benton's work in the 1930s and 1940s, particularly
                         those launched from the left-modernist circle of artists and intellectuals
                         in 
                              New
                                   York
                         .10 Doss makes it clear that it was
                         Benton's unique combination of republican or populist politics and
                         a modernist aesthetic of "synthe- sis" that led to such
                         widespread misunderstanding of his work, includ- 
                              8For examples of such controversies, see
                                   Casey Nelson Blake, "Between Civics and Politics: The
                                   Modernist Moment in Federal Public Art," in Blake, ed.,
                                        The Arts of Democracy: Art, Public Culture, and
                                        the State (
                                        Philadelphia
                                    , 2007), 197-219.
                              9Quoted in Jerry Mangione, The
                                        Dream and the Deal: The Federal Writers' Project,
                                        1935-1943 (
                                        Philadelphia
                                    , 1983), 195.
                              10Erika Doss, Benton, Pollock,
                                        and the Politics of Modernism: From Regionalism to Abstract
                                        Expressionism (
                                        Chicago
                                   , 1991).
                         
                          ing its fierce condemnation by
                         left-leaning modernists. The repeated characterization of his politics as
                         "fascist" or something close to it reflected
                         intellectuals' growing hostility toward the populism that Benton
                         had inherited from his father. No doubt Benton's ugly rants
                         against the influence of homosexuals and Jews in the art world made matters
                         worse, but in retrospect it appears that the political attacks on Benton
                         were intimately linked to progressives' repudiation of the pop-
                         ulist rhetoric upholding the ideal of an egalitarian republic of small pro-
                         ducers against exploitation by monopolistic "parasites."
                         Such language had mobilized mass movements of workers and farmers in the
                         1880s and 1890s, but by the 1930s most intellectuals on the left were
                         likely to stress its parallels to the "petty bourgeois"
                         politics of resentment that had produced Nazism and Fascism in Europe.
                         Likewise, Benton's effort to incorporate images and narrative
                         devices derived from popular cul- ture--cinema above all--infuriated those
                         modernists who likened capi- talist "kitsch" to the
                         official art of totalitarian regimes. Doss notes that Benton's
                         endorsement of "the movie Art as a sort of communal Art,"
                         placed him squarely at odds with the left-modernist position coalescing in
                         the pages of the Partisan Review.11 What Benton saw as
                         "communal Art," the Partisan Review
                         critics now derided as "mass culture." Benton nonetheless
                         remained defiant to the end. Writing in his memoir, he con- trasted the
                         "privatism of modernism, its grounding in an exaggerated
                         individualism," to his own aspiration "to set up a
                         people's art."12
                    Drawing on Doss's arguments, I would like to suggest an addition- al
                         source for the charges leveled against Benton's work. What often
                         united the attacks on Benton's murals was a widespread uncertainty
                         about whether their representation of past and present realities was nos-
                         talgic or critical and, more broadly, about how exactly his historical
                         cycles made the past available for the social challenges of his day. In
                         keeping with much of the aesthetic ideology of the New Deal period, Benton
                         conceived of public art as a dramatic narrative that offered a
                         "usable past" for the present and future.
                         Benton's thinking was especial- ly close to Mumford's
                         cultural and social criticism, which traced the dis- integration of earlier
                         historical moments of "synthesis"--whether in 
                              11Benton quoted in Ibid., 215.
                              12Benton quoted in Robert L. Dorman, Revolt of the Provinces: The Regionalist Movement
                                        in America, 1920-1945 (
                                        Chapel Hill
                                   , 
                                        N.C.
                                   , 1993), 118.
                         
                          medieval-Catholic Europe or Jacksonian
                         New England--under the pres- sures of capitalist industrialization.13 Mumford had started his career in the 1920s as an
                         heir to John Ruskin and William Morris, condemning the factory system and
                         the industrial division of labor for separating art from everyday life and
                         thereby consigning most people to bureaucra- tized modes of work and play.
                         By the 1930s, Mumford's work took a dif- ferent turn as he scoured
                         the present for signs of a nascent "organic" community.
                         In Technics and Civilization and other writings from that
                         decade, he argued that social science, regional planning, and new devel-
                         opments in art, architecture, and industrial design promoted a resurgent
                         holism that was taking material form "within technology
                              itself."14 Simultaneously calling upon
                         historical memory and social hope, Mumford left himself open to many of the
                         same accusations Benton faced--that his work was nostalgic and sentimental
                         on the one hand, or utterly utopian and idealist on the other. Did Mumford
                         and Benton urge a return to a folkish "Golden Day" or
                         naively idealize an industrial-capi- talist system as capable of its own
                         transcendence? Either way, the place of politics and popular mobilization
                         as instruments of social change remained murky at best.
                    One indication of the vagueness of Mumford's thinking on such
                         matters was the curious fate suffered by film The City
                         (1939) as the 1930s gave way to the 1940s. A dramatization of
                         Mumford's urbanist theory for the 
                              New
                                   York
                          World's Fair, The City documented
                         the social ills of factory towns and the modern megalopolis. The film
                         concluded with an idyllic depiction of life in the new garden city of 
                              Greenbelt
                         , 
                              Maryland
                         , which Mumford and his colleagues held out as a model for how
                         regional planning might reconstruct the organic community of early New
                         England on a modern, scientific basis. In keeping with Mumford's
                         criticism, The City enacted a movement from a past
                         holism to a more communal future by locating the sources of that future in
                         changes already taking place. Within a few years, the film's
                         hopeful nar- rative was put to very different uses in Frank
                         Capra's Why We Fight doc- umentaries. Capra
                         spliced scenes from The City's 
                              Greenbelt
                          sequence 
                              130n Mumford's early career, see
                                   Casey Nelson Blake, Beloved Community: The Cultural
                                        Criticism of Randolph Bourne, Van Wyck Brooks, Waldo Frank,
                                        and Lewis Mumford (
                                        Chapel Hill
                                   , 
                                        N.C.
                                   , 1990).
                              14Lewis Mumford, Technics and
                                        Civilization (
                                        New
                                             York
                                    , 1934), 372.
                         
                          into the first episode of his wartime
                         propaganda series, with Mumford's nascent post-industrial
                         community of the future now representing the country Americans were
                         defending in World War Two. Capra's docu- mentary suggested that
                         Mumford's utopia was already realized. The pro- cession of social
                         progress had culminated in 1940s 
                              America
                         .
                    The ambiguity of the position that Mumford shared with Benton stemmed from
                         their shared conception of history as a dramatic narra- tive--a conception
                         that was, if anything, more important to Benton's work than it was
                         to Mumford's. "History was not a scholarly study for
                         me," Benton wrote of his early career, "but a drama. I
                         saw it not as a suc- cession of events but a continuous flow of action
                         having its climax in my own immediate experience."15 The idea of public art as drama, as "a con- tinuous
                         flow of action," was central to the aesthetic position that
                         Mumford, John Dewey, and many others articulated in the 1930s.
                         Dewey's 1934 Art as Experience sought to recover
                         "the continuity of esthetic experience with normal processes of
                         living" by emphasizing artistic process over individual art
                         objects, which in turn led Dewey to trace the origins of expressive culture
                         in primitive ritual and perform- ance.16 Dewey wrote:
                         "Art is the extension of the power of rites and cer- emonies to
                         unite men, through a shared celebration, to all incidents and scenes of
                              life."17 Murals appealed to artists and
                         critics in Dewey's orbit as a visual rite dramatizing movement
                         through history. Federal Arts Project director Holger Cahill spoke
                         repeatedly of an incipient American "ren- aissance" and
                         recommended murals as a "heritage to the future . . . cre- ated in
                         our own time."18 Muralist Mitchell Soporin
                         wrote, "There is the 'big parade' for us now of
                         the past melting into the present."19
                    Benton marched at the head of that big parade for much of the 1930s. Yet his
                         murals deployed a narrative structure that differed in sig- nificant ways
                         from that of many of his contemporaries. The dramas Benton enacted in his
                         murals were in fact melodramas. Mumford got his 
                              15Benton, "A Dream
                                   Fulfilled," in Foster, et al., Thomas Hart
                                        Benton and the 
                                             Indiana
                                         Murals, fac- ing p. 32.
                              16John Dewey, Art as
                                        Experience (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1934), 10.
                              17Ibid., 271.
                              18Cahill quoted in A. Joan Saab, For the Millions: American Art and Culture Between
                                        the Wars (
                                        Philadelphia
                                   , 2004), 45.
                              19Mitchell Soporin, "Mural Art and
                                   the Midwestern Myth," in Art for the
                                        Millions: Essays from the 1930s by Artists and
                                        Administrators of the WPA Federal Art Project, ed.
                                   Francis V O'Connor (
                                        Boston
                                   , 
                                        Mass.
                                   , 1973), 64.
                         
                          friend's distinctive approach
                         to narrative exactly right in a 1934 review. "Benton," he
                         wrote, "is no ... realist ... he is wild, high-spirited, melo-
                         dramatic, as fiery and abandoned as a country fiddler whose realism is only
                         the touch of cow dung clinging to his shoes."20 And it was precisely Benton's reliance on melodrama
                         as a way of representing historical process that drew so much criticism
                         during his life and after. Long- standing complaints about melodrama as a
                         genre appear again and again in the critical commentary on
                         Benton's murals. Benton's detractors repeatedly condemned
                         his work's emotional excess and sentimentality, its heightened
                         theatricality and staginess, its cartoonish portraits of stock heroes and
                         villains painted in garish colors, and its use of simplis- tic moral
                         dichotomies to tell a historical story.21 Such charges
                         have long figured in polemics against melodrama as an inherently
                         "false" or "cheap" genre. Some
                         skeptical art historians have subsequently charac- terized Benton as
                         essentially a politician and stump speaker who used the bombastic style of
                         his father's populist oratory in his attacks on the 
                              New
                                   York
                          left-modernist scene.22 Benton figures in
                         these accounts more as a showman or circus master than as a painter. He
                         becomes the impre- sario of American democratic melodrama.
                    The literary critic Peter Brooks has traced the origins of melodrama to the
                         period during and immediately after the French Revolution, when the
                         collapse of traditional religious and ideological systems resulted in a
                         search for a new narrative locating moral meaning in contemporary 
                              20Lewis Mumford, "Benton of 
                                        Missouri
                                   --A Galaxy of Goyas," in Mumford on Modern Art, 121.
                              21Contemporaries of Benton who were far less
                                   sympathetic to his work than Mumford repeat- edly cited the
                                   artist's melodramatic inclinations. In his 1935 polemic
                                   in the pages of Art Front, Stuart Davis
                                   condemned Benton's use of "a third-rate
                                   vaudeville character cliché" in his depic- tion of
                                   African Americans. Quoted in Susan Noyes Platt, Art
                                        and Politics in the 1930s: Modernism, Marxism,
                                        Americanism (
                                        New
                                             York
                                    , 1999), 59. Davis's critique of
                                   Benton's Whitney Museum murals cycle, The
                                        Arts of Life in 
                                             America
                                        , likewise denounced his use of
                                   "vicious cari- cature" in representations of
                                   Jews and blacks that Hitler and Huey Long would happily embrace.
                                   Quoted in Doss, Benton, Pollock, and the Politics of
                                        Modernism, 97. Meyer Schapiro denounced
                                   Benton's work as "'American
                                   Life,' 'conceived as a meaningless, turbulent
                                   activity,' 'arranged in banal and cynical
                                   contrasts, rendered in a pretentiously virile
                                   manner.'" Quoted in Andrew Hemingway, Artists on the Left: American Artists and the
                                        Communist Movement, 1926- 1956 (
                                        New Haven
                                   , 
                                        Conn.
                                   , 2002), 52. The New Masses art critic Stephen
                                   Alexander character- ized Benton as a theatrical figure who had
                                   turned himself into caricature. Benton, he wrote, was "a
                                   shrewd politician" who knew how to play the "
                                   'native son' business for all it's
                                   worth," a per- former whose "tabloid"
                                   murals announced "AMERICAN LIFE HAS NO
                                   MEANING...DON'T TRY TO FIGURE IT OUT." Ibid.,
                                   31.
                              22Platt, Art and Politics,
                                   50; Elizabeth Broun, "Thomas Hart Benton: A Politician
                                   in Art," Smithsonian Studies in American
                                        Art, 1 (Spring 1987), 59-77.
                         
                          events. Melodrama, Brooks writes,
                         "comes into being in a world where the traditional imperatives of
                         truth and ethics have been violently thrown into question, yet where the
                         promulgation of truth and ethics, their instauration as a way of life, is
                         of immediate, daily, political con- cern."23
                         In a secular, revolutionary age melodramatic narratives filled an
                         ideological void by writing an accessible "drama of the moral
                         life" into popular culture.24 "While
                         its social implications may be variously revo- lutionary or
                         conservative," Brooks writes, melodrama "is in all cases
                         rad- ically democratic, striving to make its representations clear and
                         legible to everyone. We may legitimately claim that melodrama becomes the
                         principal mode for uncovering, demonstrating, and making operative the
                         essential moral universe in a post-sacred era."25
                    As a way of telling a moral story about the world, melodrama rep- resents an
                         alternative to both realism and modernism, even as it draws on both
                         traditions. Film theorists Christine Gledhill and Linda Williams have been
                         especially perceptive in exploring the relationship between melodramatic
                         storytelling and realist conventions. Gledhill argues that melodrama
                         "[takes] its stand in the material world of everyday reality and
                         lived experience, and acknowledging the limitations of the conven- tions of
                         language and representation, it proceeds to force into aesthetic presence
                         identity, value and plenitude of meaning."26
                         Melodrama, in this argument, makes use of realist conventions but ratchets
                         up their emo- tional register, stopping short of the psychological
                         intensity and com- plex subjectivity of German Expressionism and other
                         modernist movements. While modernism tears apart familiar language and
                         repre- sentation, the melodramatic imagination creates a seemingly
                         realistic narrative that is deliberately overwrought, indebted more to
                         pantomime than to dialogue, and given to formulaic endings. It is worth
                         remember- ing in this regard that melodrama first emerged in plays that
                         were staged to orchestral music, often without spoken dialogue, which made
                         the 
                              23Peter Brooks, The
                                        Melodramatic Imagination: Balzac, Henry James, Melodrama,
                                        and the Mode of Excess (
                                        New
                                             York
                                   , 1985), 15.
                              24Ibid., 12.
                              25Ibid., 15.
                              26Christine Gledhill quoted in Linda
                                   Williams, "Melodrama Revised," in Reconfiguring American Film Genres: Theory and
                                   History, ed. Nick Browne (
                                        Berkeley
                                   , 
                                        Calif.
                                   , 1998), 52. Gledhill, "The Melodramatic
                                   Field: An Investigation," in Home Is Where
                                        the Heart Is: Studies in Melodrama and the Woman's
                                        Film (
                                        London
                                   , 1987), 5-39.
                         
                          genre an immediate and obvious point
                         of departure for silent film. Benton's 
                              Indiana
                          Murals trade deliberately on the representational motifs of
                         theatrical and cinematic melodrama. Indian hunters and mound builders, the
                         frontier couple at their plow, Civil War governor Oliver P. Morton sending
                         Hoosier soldiers to war, young Abe Lincoln reading a posted notice, brawny
                         proletarians, club women, and college professors: all are scene-stealing
                         protagonists who propel history for- ward in a series of dramatically
                         staged vignettes. [plates 2, 3, 6, 8] One can almost hear the player piano,
                         hitting its notes faster and faster, as one moves from panel to panel.
                    It is the uneasy place of melodrama within modern aesthetics-- neither
                         realist nor modernist, though indebted to both--that explains the ferocity
                         of criticism Benton received from audiences devoted to these more familiar
                         artistic traditions. Doss makes a powerful defense of Benton as a modernist
                         whose work aspired to "cultural synthesis," not the
                         dissonance and fragmentation normally associated with the modern
                              movement.27 It seems to me, however, that the
                         modernist elements in Benton's work--most in evidence in his New
                         School murals of 1930- 31--were largely subordinated to a melodramatic
                         narrative form. Recognizing melodrama as an unacknowledged competitor to
                         realism and modernism makes it easier to understand Benton's
                         awkward place in the critical debates of the 1930s and in later scholarship
                         on twentieth- century American art.
                    Melodrama no doubt appealed to Benton's populist inclinations as a
                         "radically-democratic" mode of representation well suited
                         to public art. But it also served a compensatory function in his work,
                         simultane- ously recalling and effacing the populist tradition he knew from
                         his childhood. Despite his best efforts to bring populism into the
                         twentieth century, Benton's use of melodramatic techniques from
                         theater and film reveals the waning power of that tradition in a modern,
                         industrial-capi- talist society. As the social conditions that gave
                         populism its political purchase dissolved, melodrama offered a moral
                         pantomime of historical progress that foreclosed future insurgency. The 
                              Indiana
                          Murals cycle cul- minated in a portrait of Democratic Governor
                         Paul McNutt gesturing toward stock New Deal phrases about "State
                         Reorganization" and 
                              27Doss, Benton, Pollock, and
                                        the Politics of Modernism, 12.
                         
                          "Repeal"--hardly a
                         call-to-arms for a mobilized citizenry.28 [plate 10]
                         Benton modernized the populist tradition by inserting it into a melodra-
                         matic structure that robbed it of its radicalism. Or to put it another way,
                         melodrama is where Benton's populism went to die.
                    Melodramatic narrative shares with populist social criticism a rhet- oric of
                         moral recuperation that is itself indebted to biblical prophecy. It
                         discloses a rupture in the moral universe that can only be healed by a
                         recovery of values associated with a more virtuous past. It does so, how-
                         ever, without demanding the asceticism of a prophetic worldview or the mass
                         political mobilization of populist agitation. Rather, melodrama involves
                         what Linda Williams calls "the retrieval of... absolute inno-
                         cence and good" through a formulaic narrative that reaffirms
                         familiar moral conventions by uncovering the hero's latent moral
                         value and the sheer villainy of his adversaries.29
                         "Melodrama," Williams writes, "offers the hope
                         that it may not be too late, that there may still be an archaic sort of
                         virtue, and that virtue and truth can be achieved in private individu- als
                         and individual heroic acts rather than . . . in revolution and
                              change."30 Northrop Frye likewise
                         described a central theme in melodra- ma as "the triumph of moral
                         virtue over villainy, and the consequent ide- alizing of the moral views
                         assumed to be held by the audience."31
                         Melodrama holds out the promise that, despite our fallen condition, we can
                         easily recognize and re-enact a moral drama of American goodness.32
                    
                         28Doss suggests that "the
                              'story' Benton told" in the McNutt panel
                              and other final murals in the 
                                   Indiana
                               cycle "was that a combination of racial
                              equality, progressive politics, and scientific engineering (in part,
                              the 'story' of the New Deal) could
                              help end the crisis of the Depression, but only if 
                                   Indiana
                               renewed its faith in republicanism." Ibid., 107.
                              This republican-New Deal political synthesis was no doubt
                              Benton's ideal, but the depoliticizing logic of his melo-
                              dramatic strategy in these murals ultimately sacrificed populism for a
                              far less participatory pol- itics.
                         29Williams, "Melodrama
                              Revised," 61.
                         30Ibid., 74.
                         31Northrop Frye, Anatomy of
                                   Criticism: Four Essays (
                                   New
                                        York
                              , 1966), 47.
                         32David Grimsted makes a similar argument about
                              nineteenth-century American melodrama. "The melodrama night
                              after night assured its audience of the democratic hope that men need
                              but trust their own hearts to find truth, while making clear that the
                              truths found would corre- spond to basic social maxims--the kind of
                              voluntary uniformity of opinion Alexis de Tocqueville saw as
                              characteristic of democratic society." Grimsted,
                              "Melodrama as Echo of the Historically Voiceless,"
                              in Anonymous Americans: Explorations in
                                   Nineteenth-Century Social History, ed. Tamara K. Hareven (
                                   Englewood Cliffs
                              , 
                                   N.J.
                              , 1971), 92; Grimsted, Melodrama Unveiled:
                                   American Theater and Culture, 1800-1850 (
                                   Berkeley
                              , 
                                   Calif.
                               , 1987), especially ch. 8.
                    
                    
                    In the melodramatic imagination that Benton shared with D.W. Griffith and
                         much subsequent Hollywood cinema, the producer radical- ism of the late
                         nineteenth century gave way to a stark juxtaposition of the virtuous and
                         the venal. The enemies of the people became the scheming Thaddeus Stevens
                         figure in The Birth of a Nation (1915) or the
                         misanthropic Mr. Potter of It's a Wonderful Life
                         (1946), cardboard villains whose defeat is preordained in their first
                         appearance as pompous hyp- ocrites. The serpent is not in the garden for
                         long, such melodramas assure us, and neither is the Wicked Witch of the
                         West. Performance takes the place of politics; dramas of moral reassurance
                         substitute for a more profound repentance.
                    By eliminating any overt reference to politics as an instrument for
                         democratic renewal, Benton's 1930s murals threatened to collapse
                         the future back into the past, which in turn fed accusations that he was a
                         nostalgic reactionary. It was not only the modernist left that sought to
                         consign Benton to the dustbin of history. The 1941 WPA guide to 
                              Missouri
                          did the same. State administrator Matthew Murray was hardly a
                         man of the left: he deliberately sanitized the guide's content,
                         erasing controversy and conflict from its account of the state's
                         history and actu- al condition. It is revealing, then, that the WPA guide
                         framed Benton in terms of an idyllic vision of the state's past,
                         reproducing one panel of his 
                              Jefferson City
                          murals alongside George Caleb Bingham's
                         "Stump Speaking" under the heading of "Old 
                              Missouri
                         ," as if Benton's mural and Benton himself
                         were nineteenth-century artifacts to be preserved in museums.33 Thus banished to an old-time folkish past, Benton became a
                         victim of the very melodramatic narrative he deployed.
                    Reading Benton as a melodramatist does not diminish his achieve- ment in the 
                              Indiana
                          cycle or his other great murals projects, nor does it minimize
                         the tragic story of political impasse that Doss tells in her account of
                         Benton's deepening pessimism in the 1940s. If anything, an
                         emphasis on Benton's place within the aesthetics of melodrama
                         deepens our appreciation of the challenges he confronted in translating
                         populism into a modern visual language. As a moral vernacular familiar to
                         ordi- nary Americans, melodrama was an ideal idiom for Benton. It told an
                              
                              33Christine Bold, The WPA
                                        Guides: Mapping America (
                                        Jackson
                                   , 
                                        Miss.
                                   , 1999), 180-82. See the reproductions that appear in
                                        The WPA Guide to 1930s 
                                             Missouri
                                        
                                    (
                                        Lawrence
                                   , 
                                        Kan.
                                   , 1986), 35. Neither painting is dated in the
                                   accompanying captions, further obscuring the historical differ-
                                   ences between the two works.
                         
                          accessible and inspiring story linking
                         past, present, and future that fit his vision of a "communal
                         Art." The 
                              Indiana
                          Murals testify to the power of the melodramatic imagination
                         and to Benton's ability to weave view- ers' experiences
                         into a historical narrative that they themselves, as visi- tors to the
                         Century of Progress International Exposition, helped to enact. But
                         Benton's recourse to melodrama also registered the dimin- ished
                         sense of political possibility that characterized much of American history
                         during his day and our own. Benton's increasing marginalization
                         over the course of his life, and in much of the historical scholarship
                         written since, stands in stark contrast to the longevity of melodrama as a
                         popular genre. The robust populism that Benton knew in his youth is now a
                         distant memory, yet the melodrama of democracy survives in every
                         performance of our nation's history that demands little of us as
                         cit- izens. Benton the impresario is no longer with us, but the show goes
                         on.
               
               
               
                     The Campus as a Pedagogical Agent: Herman B Wells, Cultural
                         Entrepreneurship, and the Benton Murals 
                    JAMES H. CAPSHEW
                    
                         The visionary educator Herman B Wells indelibly
                         transformed Indiana University in his service as President (1937-62) and
                         University Chancellor (1962-2000). Under his leadership, the universi- ty
                         grew from a provincial hub into a cosmopolitan center of learning with an
                         international reputation. Shrewd, charming, and energetic, Wells possessed
                         an immense social network and ample sound judgment to find and create
                         opportunities to improve the fortunes of IU. People were his passion, and
                         he cultivated contacts with all members of the university community as well
                         as with many groups beyond the campus. Although he strengthened the
                         university's focus on research and advanced training, he made an
                         extraordinary effort to cultivate the arts as well. Wells's
                         unwavering commitment to academic freedom was put to the test by his
                         protection of Alfred Kinsey's controversial research on sex, and
                         he set into motion the expansion of international academic pro- grams of
                         many kinds.
                    
                         James H. Capshew teaches courses in the history of science and
                              learning at Indiana University, 
                              
                                   
                                        Bloomington
                                   
                              . He is preparing a scholarly study of the life and career
                              of Indiana educator Herman B Wells.
                    
                    
                    
                         IU Auditorium, 1941. Home to the Benton Murals and
                              centerpiece of Herman B Wells's vision for a new Fine Arts
                              Plaza, the Auditorium stands as a monument and living legacy to both
                              men. Courtesy IU Archives
                    
                    Wells understood that learning took place whenever and wherever consciousness
                         existed, and he was devoted to building a creative and nurturing
                         environment for the entire IU family. His vision reflected his belief that,
                         in addition to the intangibilities of morale and spirit, the campus
                         landscape--"our precious islands of green and serenity"--
                         played an important role "in their ability to inspire students to
                         dream long dreams of future usefulness and achievement."1 Every aspect of the physical campus, from its
                         woodland landscape and limestone architec- ture to its and tasteful
                         interior furnishings, could play a dynamic role in education and
                         learning.
                    But that vision did not spring into action fully formed when Wells became the
                         eleventh president of IU beginning in 1937. Rather it devel- oped over
                         time, pieced together from his family background and life experiences,
                         combined with on-the-job training. A 1924 IU alumnus, Wells had joined the
                         faculty as an instructor in economics in 1930, was promoted to assistant
                         professor in 1933, and then was named Dean of the School of Business
                         Administration in 1935, at the age of 33. Two years later, he became Acting
                         President. 
                    
                         1Herman B Wells, "State of the
                              University," June 2, 1962, President Herman B Wells Speeches,
                              1937-1962, IU Archives, 
                                   Bloomington
                              , 
                                   Indiana
                              .
                    
                    
                    One of the acknowledged early triumphs of the Wells administration was the
                         acquisition of Thomas Hart Benton's 
                              Indiana
                          Murals and their placement in the new Auditorium, dedicated in
                         1941. What tends to be for- gotten is the controversy surrounding the
                         murals, originally created for the 
                              Chicago
                          Century of Progress International Exposition in 1933.
                         Depicting the industrial and cultural history of 
                              Indiana
                         , Benton used an exaggerated representational style of
                         individuals and events that some thought unbe- coming to Hoosiers and their
                         state. Commissioned and owned by the State of 
                              Indiana
                         , the paintings became a white elephant after the fair closed
                         at the end of October. The gigantic canvases were taken down, crated, and
                         trans- ported to the State Fairgrounds in 
                              Indianapolis
                         . There they were stored in the Manufacturers'
                         Building, the only structure with doors large enough to accommodate the
                         eighteen-foot packages, which weighed a total of six tons. And there the
                         crates sat for over five years.
                    The current appreciation for these dazzling jewels of beauty and culture on
                         the IU campus should not blind us to an obvious question: Given their
                         near-forgotten status in 1938, why on earth did President Wells want them
                         for the university? By exploring how and why Wells was sensitized to art in
                         general, and to the 
                              Indiana
                          Murals in particular, one can appreciate his role as cultural
                         entrepreneur for the university and his determination to nurture the entire
                         campus as a dynamic peda- gogical agent.
                    The very physicality of the campus provides a "cultural
                         glue" to attract and fix the loyalties of its academic community
                         and a social set- ting where university norms, rituals, and customs are
                         enacted. Through generations, Wells knew, the campus had been
                         "culturally instructive, introducing the individual to the rich
                         set of information, values, princi- ples, and experiences which art,
                         landscape architecture, and architec- ture are capable of
                              embodying."2 The roots of his vision can
                         be traced to the remarkably deep and fertile appreciation of the cultural
                         landscape of Indiana University that he had begun to cultivate as an
                         undergraduate.
                    
                         ENCOUNTERING ART ON CAMPUS
                         Wells first encountered the IU campus in the fall of 1921, as a nine-
                              teen-year-old student. At that time, the campus was a fraction of its
                              cur- 
                                   2Sheldon Rothblatt, "A Note on
                                        the 'Integrity' of the
                                        University," Aurora Torealis,
                                        eds. Marco Beretta, Karl Grandin, and Svante Lindqvist (
                                             Sagamore Beach
                                        , 
                                             Mass.
                                        , 2008), 280.
                              
                               rent size, with a few limestone
                              buildings arrayed in a crescent around the remnant of Dunn's
                              Woods. Although the campus was less than forty years old, it was
                              developing, like universities everywhere, "the indispen-
                              sable innumerable symbols and structures: buildings, gardens, bridges,
                              walks, avenues, glades, statues, plazas, fountains, statuary, towers,
                              gate- ways and also follies, quirky leftover inheritances in the form
                              of inscrip- tions, unlikely structures and almost unusable
                              ones," such as the Rose Well House.3
                              Wells was struck by the physical beauty of IU's wooded
                              landscape, dotted with graceful monoliths of native stone, and eagerly
                              partook of the culture of its academic community. The gregarious young
                              man joined Sigma Nu fraternity, finding the brothers he had never had
                              growing up as an only child.
                         Receiving mostly B's and C's in his coursework, Wells
                              pursued a business degree in IU's new School of Commerce and
                              Finance. Very active in extracurricular affairs, he distinguished
                              himself in college (as he had in high school) by serving as treasurer
                              or business manager of nearly all the groups he joined, ranging from
                              his high school yearbook staff to the IU chapter of the YMCA. His
                              engagement with the arts had begun even earlier. Starting as a
                              nine-year-old, he played horn--first alto and then baritone--in a
                              succession of local brass bands, and was a mem- ber of the IU Band
                              during college. Never achieving virtuosity in his play- ing, Wells
                              nonetheless stuck with it for the group solidarity and civic pride it
                              engendered in him.
                         Wells took some music appreciation courses in the new School of Music,
                              but did not avail himself of formal training in the visual arts, which
                              were the province of a small department. He could not help notic- ing,
                              though, the presence of 
                                   Indiana
                               artist T.C. Steele, who was serving as "honorary
                              professor of painting" at the behest of President William
                              Lowe Bryan. At the center of the 
                                   Brown
                                        County
                               artists' colony, Steele had begun his
                              association with IU in the 1890s, when he received com- missions to
                              paint portraits of several professors. In 1907 he got to know Bryan
                              during the course of several weeks when the then president sat for his
                              portrait in a temporary campus studio. Steele's fame
                              increased, and in the spring of 1916, an exhibit of his paintings
                              appeared in the Student Building in conjunction with the centennial of 
                                   Indiana
                               statehood. At commencement that year, Steele received an
                              honorary doctorate, a mark 
                                   3Ibid., 278.
                              
                               of distinction that the
                              university had bestowed only two times in the preceding decade, first
                              to James Whitcomb Riley (1907) and then to David Starr Jordan
                              (1909).
                         When Steele came to campus in 1922, a large studio was prepared for him
                              on the top floor of the Library (now Franklin Hall). There were no
                              stipulations about his activities save that he would be in residence
                              six months of the year. "I believe we need beauty as much as
                              we need truth," Bryan contended, adding that "the
                              University needs artists as much as it needs scholars." The
                              president's idea was that Steele's very presence
                              would help to advance art appreciation on campus, thus con- tributing
                              to the moral uplift of the student body. For his part, Steele ren-
                              dered his mission in simple terms: "to see the Beautiful in
                              nature and in life. "4
                         The artist was modest and unpretentious about his work, and was
                              unperturbed if visitors dropped in when the studio was open Thursday,
                              Friday, and Saturday each week.5 Sometimes he
                              continued painting, other times he took a break. In an article
                              appearing in the 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    Star, one student observer commented: 
                                   when Mr. Steele stops his painting to speak to the students
                                        infor- mally in this way, they learn many interesting facts
                                        in an entirely painless fashion. During the pleasant days of
                                        the spring . . . the artist plans to do most of his painting
                                        outside on the campus. The students will not be permitted to
                                        paint with him, but they may watch his work.6
                               Wells was one of the many students who observed Steele at
                              work. On at least one occasion he found him painting en
                                   plein aire on campus, next to the Jordan
                                   River, and looked over the artist's shoulder
                              at his canvas. Steele painted a prolific array of campus scenes, often
                              using the stately limestone buildings to accentuate his trademark
                              interpretations of the natural landscape.
                         
                              4Selma N. Steele, Theodore L. Steele, and
                                   Wilbur D. Peat, The House of the Singing Winds: The
                                        Life and Work of T.C. Steele (
                                        Indianapolis
                                   , 1966), 161.
                              5Frank C. Senour, Art For Your
                                        Sake (
                                        Bloomington
                                   , 
                                        Ind.
                                   , 1924), 2.
                              6Quoted in Steele, et al., House of the Singing Winds, 162.
                         
                         
                         Writing in the Daily Student, IU English professor
                              Frank Senour exhorted students to take advantage of Steele's
                              presence on campus: 
                                   I want you to go to the studio that you may see Mr. Steele,
                                        and catch his joy--a quiet unobtrusive joy it is--in the
                                        artist life. I wish I could tell you about his life and what
                                        it has meant to be faithful to seeing things steadily and
                                        seeing them whole. His art is his life, and he, as you meet
                                        him and talk to him is the best commentary upon his
                                        pictures. He puts into his pictures not only what he sees,
                                        but what he believes in. . . . The artist's view of
                                        the world is worth while.7
                               In the spring of 1923, the Union Board bought six of
                              Steele's paintings, to be hung in the Student Building. That
                              acquisition served as the nucle- us of the impressive art collection
                              now in the Indiana Memorial Union building. That fall, Wells was
                              elected and served as treasurer of the Union Board. No doubt he was
                              aware of these purchases.
                         Wells received his BS in Commerce at the 1924 IU Commencement, held in
                              the Men's Gymnasium. The utilitarian space was spruced up and
                              decorated with a special art display. Pride of place went to a large
                              oil painting representing "Alma Mater" and the fight
                              against ignorance. It was the work of Edwin Howland Blashfield, an IU
                              alumnus, who was well known both as a muralist and for his
                              allegorical, figurative style. (Among his other commissions was the
                              interior dome of the Library of Congress in the nation's
                              capitol.) Presiding over his twen- ty-second commencement ceremony,
                              President Bryan titled his remarks, "Alma Mater and the Dark
                              Ages." Despite the glories of the Gothic cathedral built
                              during the Middle Ages, he said, the Dark Ages are "eter-
                              nal," located in the hearts and minds of all of us. Bryan
                              went on to describe the painting: 
                                   Alma Mater appears as a woman of splendid beauty. In her arms
                                        and at her feet are the books which stand for the learning
                                        created and cherished by the University. At her feet is a
                                        monster devour- 
                                             7Senour, Art For
                                                  Your Sake, 31-32.
                                        
                                         ing the books. The
                                        monster is barbarism, the spirit which scorns and tramples
                                        under foot what is fine and loves what is base. The monster
                                        is the never-dying spirit of the Dark Ages. A flock of
                                        angels strive in comic distress to save the books. A youth
                                        with a sword stands ready, we hope, to fight for the good
                                        cause at the command of Alma Mater. When I saw this youth
                                        with the sword, I thought of our boys who chose to spend
                                        their money for the pictures of Theodore Steele.8
                               Noting that the youth "carries the shield of Indiana
                              University," Bryan, along with his wife, gave the picture to
                              the university "in the hope that its beauty and its meaning
                              may help in the good fight far into the future."9
                         During his three-year undergraduate career, Wells had ample opportunity
                              to sample the riches of the visual and musical arts. Already
                              sensitized to the natural beauty of southern 
                                   Indiana
                               and its seasonal variations, he later declared that he
                              fell in love with the university in that time.10
                              That love was built on his unusual capacity for affinity and empa- thy
                              not just with people but also with places. Indiana University--its
                              physical and cultural landscape--provided a beneficent matrix for
                              Wells's intellectual and social development, and it would
                              serve as a true alma mater.
                    
                    
                         THE SHAPING OF A PUBLIC SERVANT
                         After graduation, Wells returned home to 
                                   Lebanon
                              , 
                                   Indiana
                              , where he worked for two years in a local bank. Restless,
                              he missed the excite- 
                                   8William Lowe Bryan, "Alma
                                        Mater and the Dark Ages," reprinted in Bryan, Farewells (
                                             Bloomington
                                        , 
                                             Ind.
                                        , 1938), 21-22.
                                   9"Commencement 1924,"
                                             IU Alumni Quarterly, 11 (1924),
                                        355-78. Currently the painting is located on the balcony of
                                        the IU Bookstore.
                                   10"For me it was an
                                        efflorescent period when my mind was open to receive a
                                        myriad of new ideas. It was also a time when my senses were
                                        so keen that they eagerly absorbed the beauty of the
                                        changing seasons in southern 
                                             Indiana
                                         , the delicate pastel colors of spring, the
                                        drowsy lush- ness of summer, the brilliance of the fall
                                        foliage, and the still but invigorating atmosphere of
                                        winter. Music, literature, and art--my whole being responded
                                        to the stimuli of collegiate life, in and out of the
                                        classroom. It was for me a time of response, growth,
                                        transformation, and inspi- ration." Herman B Wells,
                                             Being Lucky: Reminiscences and
                                             Reflections (
                                             Bloomington
                                         , 
                                             Ind.
                                         , 1980), 42.
                              
                               ment of learning and the
                              immersion in university culture, so he returned to 
                                   Bloomington
                               to pursue a master's degree in economics. A year
                              later, with a solid thesis published in The Hoosier
                                   Banker in 1927, he was on his way to the University of 
                                   Wisconsin
                              , enrolled in their doctoral pro- gram in economics.11 Although Wells enjoyed academic work, he was
                              lured back to practical matters a year later when he took an
                              attractive position as Field Secretary of the 
                                   Indiana
                               Bankers Association (IBA).
                         Wells crisscrossed the state, visiting nearly every one of 
                                   Indiana
                              's 1,100 banks and publishing a monthly column in
                                   The Hoosier Banker, the IBA's house
                              organ. These dispatches, under the title "Hoosier
                              Highways," contained descriptions of banks and bankers,
                              sympathetic statements of local problems, and shrewd promotion of
                              better banking practices, along with a running travelogue of country
                              hotels, the passing scenery, and the never-ending quest for a good
                              meal. Wells's evident love for the state and its culture was
                              on display, as this example from a stop in 
                                   Covington
                               suggests: 
                                   After the Ford was comfortably stabled at its customary curb-
                                        stone box stall, we walked to the Wabash
                                             river--watched the sun, as a beautiful red
                                        ball of fire, sink behind the river and day dreamed of the
                                        days of long ago when the Indians used the river for their
                                        canoes, and then its later part in pioneer commerce, when on
                                        its bosom each year it bore a burden of whiskey and molasses
                                        on the way to 
                                             New Orleans
                                         and the world. And also of the man who made it
                                        famous and immortal, Paul Dresser, of his tragic life and of
                                        his brother Theodore's biography of him.12
                               Wells remained in touch with his IU mentors and, in 1930,
                              joined the faculty as instructor, keeping his connection to the
                              Bankers Association.
                         One year later, as the economic situation worsened, Wells was appointed
                              as Secretary and Research Director of the Study Commission on 
                                   Indiana
                               Financial Institutions. So, in the early 1930s, Wells was
                              both teaching economics and working hard for the state reorganizing
                              the banking industry. He had come to believe that the state played a
                              signifi- 
                                   11Herman B Wells, "Service
                                        Charges for the Small or So-Called Country Banks,"
                                        M.A. thesis, Indiana University, 1927.
                                   12"Hoosier Highways,"
                                             Hoosier Banker, 15 (March 1930),
                                        30.
                              
                               cant role in social progress
                              through its sponsorship of education and its fiduciary management,
                              among other areas. Both bankers and teachers had a special moral
                              obligation to their clientele: to strive for benefits to each
                              individual while ensuring the collective good. Public servants were
                              thus agents of the state, charged with preserving and enhancing the
                              commonweal for all citizens.
                         In 1933, the Study Commission's report, authored by Wells,
                              served as the basis for reform legislation brought before the 
                                   Indiana
                               General Assembly under the new administration of
                              Democratic Governor Paul V. McNutt, formerly Dean of the IU Law
                              School, who had swept into office with the New Deal landslide. Wells
                              accepted McNutt's offer to oversee the implementation of the
                              new banking regulations, and took leave from his university duties to
                              serve as Supervisor of the Division of Banks and Trust Companies and
                              of the Division of Research and Statistics in the state's
                              Department of Financial Institutions. In addition, he filled the role
                              of Secretary of the Commission of Financial Institutions. In filling
                              this triple role in state administration he demonstrated a remarkable
                              managerial talent. In 1935 President Bryan tapped Wells as the Dean of
                              the School of Business Administration, where he got his first taste of
                              aca- demic stewardship. Two years later, Dean Wells was appointed
                              Acting President following Bryan's retirement.
                    
                    
                         FINDING A HOME FOR THE MURALS
                         February 8, 1938, was a fateful day in IU history. Wells, in his eighth
                              month as acting president, had won the confidence of most of the
                              faculty and some members of the Board of Trustees based on his compe-
                              tent performance on the job. He juggled a punishing travel schedule to
                              replace depleted faculty ranks while also working with the trustees to
                              refurbish the physical plant and launching a comprehensive
                              self-survey. Wells proved to be a tremendous workhorse, managing all
                              of this and more with tact and charm.
                         Meeting in executive session on February 8, the eight IU trustees talked
                              again about the presidential search. In a surprise maneuver, one
                              trustee formally moved to appoint former governor McNutt as
                              Bryan's permanent replacement. The vote was split four to
                              four. Voting in favor were the trustees appointed by McNutt during his
                              term as governor. Of the opposition, three trustees had been elected
                              by the alumni. The fourth, J. Dwight Peterson, was a gubernatorial
                              appointment by McNutt's successor, Clifford Townsend, and had
                              served only one month.  Peterson,
                              an 
                                   Indianapolis
                               banker, had known Wells for a decade. The newspapers
                              picked up the story of the trustees' split over McNutt.13 For more than two weeks the imbroglio
                              continued, until McNutt quieted the uproar by removing himself from
                              further consideration.14 Now the stage was set for
                              the trustees' unanimous vote for Wells on March 22.
                         Meanwhile, a front-page story in the 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    Times had also appeared on February 8. Under
                              the headline, "Six-Ton, $20,000 Mural History of State
                              Decaying at Fair Grounds Awaiting Home Big Enough to Hold
                              It," the article described how Thomas Benton's
                              narrative murals of 
                                   Indiana
                              , painted for the 1933 
                                   Chicago
                               World's Fair, were languishing in storage.
                              Wilbur D. Peat, Director of the John Herron Art Institute, opined:
                                   
                                   Certainly art patrons would like to have this history where it
                                        could be seen. But there seems to be no place to put it. Not
                                        even the World War Memorial. Looks to me like
                                        there'll have to be a building built for these
                                        paintings or at least a part of a new build- ing set aside
                                        for them.15
                               In a follow-up story the next day, Richard Lieber, the father
                              of the 
                                   Indiana
                               state park system and director of the state commission
                              original- ly in charge of the murals, declared that the paintings must
                              be preserved. Lieber had hoped that a proper display could be found
                              somewhere in the planned expansion of the statehouse complex or, if
                              not, that the state would entrust the mural to the 
                                   Indianapolis
                               Art Association and pay for a wing to house them at the
                              Herron Art Institute.16
                         When he heard the news about the uncertain fate of the murals, Wells was
                              immediately taken back to 1933. He had been on leave from his
                              university post at the time, living at the Claypool Hotel in 
                                   Indianapolis
                               and working on banking reform for the McNutt adminis-
                                   
                                   13
                                                  Gary
                                              Post Tribune, February 25,
                                        1938.
                                   14Ora L. Wildermuth to John S.
                                        Hastings, March 14, 1938, Wells Papers, C213, Box 135A, IU
                                        Archives.
                                   15Leo Daugherty, "Six-Ton,
                                        $20,000 Mural History of State Decaying at Fair Grounds
                                        Awaiting Home Big Enough to Hold It," 
                                                  Indianapolis
                                              Times, February 8, 1938, 1.
                                   16Leo Daugherty, "Suggestions
                                        for Preservation Of Murals Given by Lieber," 
                                                  Indianapolis
                                              Times, February 9, 1938, 3.
                              
                              
                              
                                   After "languishing in storage"
                                        at the 
                                             Indiana
                                         State Fairgrounds for years, Bentons murals
                                        arrive at Indiana University, December 1939. Courtesy
                                        IU Archives
                               tration. With frequent business in 
                                   Chicago
                              , Wells several times took the opportunity to visit the
                              World's Fair's spacious 
                                   Indiana
                               pavilion, with its Benton murals arranged high on the
                              walls (p. 131). "Essentially, it was a place for people to
                              sit and look at art," Wells recollected.17 Visitors were treated to a vigorous interpretation of
                              the "Social History of 
                                   Indiana
                              " from Indian times to the present, with matched
                              pan- els displaying industrial progress and cultural advancement,
                              respective- ly, on facing walls. Benton's Regionalist
                              narrative style was instantly recognizable, with oversized figures,
                              drawn from life, painted in vivid colors and arranged in successive
                              tableaux representing events in 
                                   17Herman B Wells interview with Kathy
                                        Foster and Nan Brewer, October 13, 1989, IU Art Museum
                                        Library.
                              
                              
                              
                                   Indiana
                               history. The murals, writes Erika Doss,
                              "celebrated the produc- erism he heard expounded by newly
                              elected President Roosevelt and his 
                                   Indiana
                               backers.18 Wells resonated with the
                              "story" that Benton pre- sented: the Hoosier State
                              "was an industrious and cooperative common-
                                   wealth."19
                         Wells likely lingered at the mural's concluding panels, "
                                   Indiana
                               Puts Her Trust in Work" and "
                                   Indiana
                               Puts Her Trust in Thought." [plates 5, 10] The
                              former depicted limestone quarries, smokestacks, concrete and steel,
                              trains and trucks, and featured a black construction worker, with
                              businessmen rapping at the door of a closed bank. The
                              "Thought" panel contained basketball players, 
                                   Indianapolis
                               500 race- cars, an employment relief line, an architect
                              and a chemist, and a por- trait of handsome Paul McNutt. The governor
                              was portrayed surrounded by newspaper headlines, including
                              "State Reorganization," "Banking,"
                              "Unemployment," and pointing to a question mark
                              above the dates of 1933, 1934, and so on. Benton narrated his belief
                              "that a combination of racial equality, progressive politics,
                              and scientific engi- neering (in part, the 'story'
                              of the New Deal) could help end the crisis of the
                              Depression, but only if 
                                   Indiana
                               renewed its faith in republicanism."20 Wells identified with the collectivist
                              aspirations signified by the murals, recognized several of the persons
                              that Benton used as models, and thought that the paintings were
                              "earthy enough" for "the typical
                              Hoosier" to appreciate, as he did.21
                         In the intervening time between 1933 and 1938, Wells had worked for the
                              state government to restore confidence in 
                                   Indiana
                               financial insti- tutions, protecting Hoosier workers and
                              producers. Now he had author- ity over the state's flagship
                              university, to nurture higher education, research, and service to all
                              citizens. He was well aware of the responsi- bilities entailed by
                              serving as an agent of the state. Those enlarged responsibilities came
                              with commensurate opportunities as well, and Wells lost no time in
                              finding ways to make improvements, despite his temporary status as
                              acting president. After reading about the uncertain 
                                   18Erika Doss, Benton,
                                             Pollock, and the Politics of Modernism: From
                                             Regionalism to Abstract Expressionism (
                                             Chicago
                                        , 1991), 101.
                                   19bid., 102.
                                   20Ibid., 107.
                                   21Wells interview with Foster and
                                        Brewer, 1989.
                              
                               fate of Benton's 
                                   Indiana
                               Murals, he thought that the university might provide a
                              lasting home on the 
                                   Bloomington
                               campus.
                         Within the month following the February 1938 newspaper article, Wells
                              talked with University Comptroller Ward Biddle about finding a place
                              for the paintings in the still-growing Indiana Memorial Union. Biddle,
                              a decade older than Wells, was the young president's closest
                              con- fidant and key ally among the administrative staff. Biddle, who
                              had graduated from IU in 1916, was also a Sigma Nu brother, and had
                              served as chapter advisor when Wells served as fraternity president
                              during his senior year. Biddle had mentored Wells since their first
                              meeting in 1923, and the two men shared a deep dedication to the
                              welfare of their alma mater.
                    

                    
                         MANAGING CULTURAL ASSETS

                         In April 1938, a month after being named permanent president, Wells
                              wrote to his friend Ralph Thompson, an 
                                   Indianapolis
                               insurance agent, seeking accurate information about the
                              dimensions of the murals. Under some pretext, Thompson visited Ross
                              Teckemeyer, the state employee who had custody of the murals, and
                              obtained the information. "It will take a room 75X35 without
                              any openings to hold these canvas- es," Thompson reported.
                              "Any room, however, with 220 linear feet of wall space can be
                              made to do the job, providing the ceilings are 18'
                                   high."22 In the months following, a
                              search for an appropriate space on campus proved futile. The new
                              Business and Economics building (now Woodburn Hall) might hold a few
                              mural panels, but accommodating the whole sequence would increase
                              construction costs significantly.
                         By now, the trustees had learned of Wells's determination to
                              obtain the paintings. In early August, Wells heard that Benton
                              "would be delighted to see the murals go up at the
                              university," in a message relayed to him by Fine Arts
                              Professor Harry Engel, a friend of the artist. Jokingly, Benton added,
                              "Whatever is decided upon for the murals is O.K. with me and
                              I will do what you wish, even to the extent of talking my head
                                   off."23 But the question remained:
                              where to put the gigantic canvases?
                         An unexpected possibility opened up during the summer of 1938. President
                              Wells and Purdue University President Edward Elliott made a 
                                   22Ralph Thompson to Herman B Wells,
                                        April 16, 1938, C213, Box 67, Thomas Hart Benton- Murals, IU
                                        Archives.
                                   23Thomas Hart Benton to Harry Engel,
                                        August 4, 1938, ibid.
                              
                              
                              
                                   Architect Otto Eggers's 1938 rendering
                                        of Wells's "audacious" vision:
                                        IU's Fine Arts Plaza Courtesy IU Archives
                               request to a special session of the 
                                   Indiana
                               General Assembly to construct a multipurpose auditorium
                              on each of their respective campuses. After a month-long debate, funds
                              were appropriated to build new "Halls of Music" for
                              both universities.
                         Wells and Biddle had already selected Eggers and Higgins, a lead- ing
                              architectural firm in 
                                   New
                                        York
                              , to consult on campus development. They were sensitive to
                              the idea that collaboration from Hoosier archi- tects would maintain
                              good relations with the 
                                   Indiana
                               architectural pro- fession and supply essential knowledge
                              of local circumstances. Thus Eggers and Higgins would be in general
                              charge of the design, with local architects executing working
                              drawings. In the case of the Auditorium, Eggers and Higgins drew the
                              original design, with A. M. Strauss of 
                                   Fort
                                        Wayne
                               as the associated architect.24
                         Although the chance to build the Auditorium was unexpected, Wells knew
                              at once that it might solve the challenge of providing a home for the
                              Benton murals. As he continued to make legal arrangements to transfer
                              the murals to IU's custody in the fall of 1938, the
                              auditorium architects were drawing plans to incorporate the paintings
                              within the interior of the structure. In September, the Benton murals
                              were formally 
                                   24Wells, Being Lucky,
                                        197-98.
                              
                               transmitted to the university by
                              the governor's office.25 Over the next
                              several months, the Hall of Music architects drew and redrew plans,
                              and consulted with Benton to obtain his approval of the
                              presentation.
                          Meanwhile, Wells's ambitious plan to improve cultural
                              opportuni- ties throughout the state received welcome national
                              exposure in the March 1939 issue of the Reader's
                                   Digest. The reporter explained Wells's philosophy:
                                   
                                   But the most unusual thing about him is his
                                        belief that a modern state university should not be a
                                        cloistered stay-at-home; that it should not only educate
                                        those who seek it out, but go out and aggressively carry its
                                        message to all the people. Through forums,
                                        music, drama, movies, radio, he is pushing the university
                                        influ- ence to the farthest corners of the state. As a
                                        result, not only those seeking academic credits, but
                                        thousands of plain Hoosier housewives and workers with no
                                        thought of diplomas are dip- ping into culture.26
                               The story described Indiana University's ambitious
                              plans for extension work around the state, including its support for
                              music and drama groups in various localities or traveling art displays
                              and film rentals. Conversely, the university was also sponsoring
                              conferences in 
                                   Bloomington
                               , inviting different groups of businessmen,
                              professionals, and women for talks by experts and scholars.
                              "The University fulfills its true purpose," Wells
                              stat- ed, "not only in the classroom, but also by affording
                              facilities and trained personnel to cooperate with all citizens in the
                              solution of their particular problems. It is in this spirit that
                              Indiana University invites you."27
                         This comprehensive program was summed up: 
                                   It is this welding of culture and the counting room, business
                                        and erudition, art and economics, that 
                                             Indiana
                                         believes it is pioneer- ing. Where many other
                                        schools, working toward the same ideals, 
                                             25Dick Heller to Herman B
                                                  Wells, September 27, 1938, C213, Box 67, Thomas
                                                  Hart Benton-- Murals, IU Archives.
                                             26Karl Detzer,
                                                  "Culture to the Crossroads," Kiwanis Magazine, 24 (March 1939),
                                                  136. Condensed as "This College Campus is
                                                  the Whole State," Reader's Digest, March 1939.
                                             27Detzer, "Culture
                                                  to the Crossroads," 137.
                                        
                                         reach out cautiously in
                                        a few directions, Wells is seeking to widen the cultural
                                        front until every taxpayer in every county gets some
                                        intellectual return from his state university.28
                               Service to the state's citizens, supplied with
                              gusto.
                         In late March 1939, with the Reader's Digest
                              article in wide circula- tion, Wells wrote to Governor Townsend that
                              most of the murals could be placed in the capacious foyer of the Hall
                              of Music, with a few in other parts of the structure and in the
                              adjacent Business and Economics build- ing.29 Not
                              only was IU revivifying cultural opportunities around the state under
                              Wells's administration, it was also acquiring cultural
                              attrac- tions and making capital investments in 
                                   Bloomington
                               . Perhaps embold- ened by his success in constructing a
                              facility that would house Benton's 
                                   Indiana
                               Murals, Wells unveiled his audacious aspiration to create
                              a new campus precinct devoted to the fine and performing arts, to be
                              anchored by the new auditorium. University architect Otto Eggers
                              sketched the Auditorium as the focus of a future group of fine arts
                              facilities, with a fine arts building to the north and a Greek-style
                              amphitheatre to the south, built on a natural slope. "His
                              original design called for a center- piece," Wells wrote,
                              "a fountain it was hoped." A striking rendering of
                              the plaza proposal was used in presentations to prospective donors.30
                    
                    
                         A HOME FOR THE ARTS
                         Dedicated in March 1941, the IU Auditorium attracted several notables to
                              its opening, Thomas Hart Benton among them. Several days of
                              programming followed, to put the building through its paces. Wells was
                              in his element--officiating at ceremonies, hosting dinner parties,
                              enjoying the musical and dramatic performances. As George M. Logan
                                   
                                   28Ibid., 137, 181.
                                   29Herman B Wells to Clifford Townsend,
                                        March 23, 1939, C213, Box 67, Thomas Hart Benton Murals, IU
                                        Archives.
                                   30Wells, Being Lucky,
                                        200. Nearly forty years in the making, the district was
                                        later named the Fine Arts Plaza, and included--in addition
                                        to the Auditorium (1941)--the Fine Arts Building (1962), the
                                        Lilly Library (1960), and the IU Art Museum (1982), all
                                        surrounding the monu- mental Showalter Fountain (1961). By
                                        filling in a blank area on the campus map, Wells played a
                                        major role in creating a distinctive twentieth-century
                                        counterpart to the nineteeth-century Old Crescent.
                              
                              
                              
                                   In March, 1941, Benton (third from left), Wells
                                        (fourth from right) and other luminaries gathered to
                                        celebrate the IU Auditorium dedication. Courtesy IU
                                        Archives
                               has written in his history of the IU School of
                              Music,"With the opening of the Auditorium the University
                              suddenly had a cultural facility that rivaled or surpassed that of any
                              other American university, and most commercial halls."31
                         The IU Auditorium proved to be a splendid venue for perform- ances and
                              lectures, and a boon for the embryonic program in theatre and drama.
                              It also played a special role in the evolution of the opera program of
                              the IU School of Music. The Metropolitan Opera Company of 
                                   New York
                                        City
                               had made annual tours to 
                                   Chicago
                               , 
                                   Boston
                               , 
                                   Cleveland
                              , and 
                                   Atlanta
                              , but it had never appeared in a small university town. In
                              a bold move, Biddle and speech and theatre faculty member Lee Norvelle
                              suc- cessfully lobbied the Met to visit Indiana University on their
                              midwestern tour. When Edward Johnson, the Met's general
                              manager, "declared that 
                                   31George M. Logan, The
                                             Indiana University School of Music: A History ( 
                                             Bloomington
                                         , 
                                             Ind.
                                        , 2000), 113.
                              
                               no college facility in 
                                   America
                               could accommodate the Met," he was qui- eted by
                              a look at the Auditorium's blueprints. When Johnson claimed
                              that the cost would be prohibitive, the university came up with a plan
                              to meet the budget. "And so," writes Logan,
                              "one of the most unlikely and charming events in the history
                              of American music was contracted: the Metropolitan Opera Company,
                              making its first appearance on a universi- ty campus, would perform in 
                                   Bloomington
                               , 
                                   Indiana
                              " in 1942.32
                         Biddle and Norvelle asked for Aida, "an
                              especially splashy opera," to mark the historic occasion. On
                              April 13, with the new auditorium just past its first year,
                              townspeople, faculty, and out-of-town visitors from as far away as 
                                   Chicago
                               and 
                                   St.
                                        Louis
                               flocked to the Met perform- ance. Among the guests was
                              Josiah K. Lilly, scion of 
                                   Indianapolis
                              's ven- erable family-run Eli Lilly and
                                   Company.33 The event was a great success,
                              even netting a small surplus over budget. Met manager Johnson
                              enthused, "the Metropolitan likes Indiana University and 
                                   Bloomington
                               . So we are not saying 'goodbye' but
                              only 'au revoir.' " The
                              advent of World War II a few months earlier would curtail the opera
                              company's touring schedule, "but when we again leave 
                                   New
                                        York
                              , Indiana University need only beckon."34
                         The war years passed, and the Met came to 
                                   Bloomington
                               again in April 1946, beginning a continuous string of
                              annual IU performances that lasted until 1961. Two operas were staged
                              during the Met's 1946 visit, Tannhaiser and
                                   La Bohème, and their programs contained a note
                              by Wells: 
                                   The visit of the world's greatest opera organization
                                        and your pres- ence here are a part of a plan and of an
                                        objective of Indiana University. Both are steps in the
                                        program of the university to make the whole state of 
                                             Indiana
                                         its campus, and to that ever- widening campus
                                        to bring the best in music and the finest in artistic
                                        expression. There are larger universities in 
                                             America
                                        . There are older universities in 
                                             America
                                        . There are none, howev- 
                                             32Ibid., 114.
                                             33More than a decade later,
                                                  Lilly gave his valuable collection of rare books
                                                  to IU and funds to create the Lilly Library,
                                                  located next door to the Auditorium.
                                             34Logan, School
                                                  of Music, 114.
                                        
                                         er, more typical of the
                                        American ideal of educational opportunity for all youth and
                                        cultural leadership for all citizens.35
                              
                         

                         Thomas Benton's 1933 murals bespoke a vision of 
                                   Indiana
                               and her history that Herman Wells was fortunate to have
                              observed in person when he was an ambitious junior professor working
                              to reform the state's banking laws. A few years later, Wells
                              was still working for the state, now as President of Indiana
                              University, and was able to reposition the university as a center of
                              art and culture. He made bold moves to acquire cultural heritage,
                              reframing and incorporating it into the liberal arts con- text, and
                              thus made it available for the education of all citizens of the
                              commonwealth.
                         Part of Wells's brilliance in obtaining the murals for the
                              university was to marry them to an impressive and functional
                              architectural monu- ment. Dedicating the Auditorium, Wells felt,
                              "was truly the beginning of the fulfillment of a special
                              university obligation to light a spark of cre- ativity in Hoosier
                                   youth."36 In a manner analogous to
                              President Bryan's presentation of the "Alma
                              Mater" painting at Wells's graduation 17 years
                              before, Wells's presiding over the Auditorium dedication
                              underscored the role of the arts in the university while at the same
                              time exemplifying changing aesthetic tastes. Bryan, who was present at
                              the 1941 dedica- tion, commented gnomically to a Daily
                                   Student reporter: "It is with our Hall of Music as
                              with every first-rate thing that men do--it is old and new. Builders of genius in 
                                   Egypt
                               , 
                                   Babylon
                               , 
                                   Athens
                               , 
                                   Canterbury
                               were present within the man who conceived of this home of
                                   beauty."37 Wells's great
                              gift as a cultural entrepreneur was already apparent: being lucky was
                              knowing what to do with the chances that came his way.38
                         
                              35Herman B Wells, in program of the
                                   Metropolitan Opera Association, 1946, IU Archives.
                              36Thomas D. Clark, Indiana
                                        University: Midwestern Pioneer (
                                        Bloomington
                                    , 
                                        Ind.
                                   , 1977), v. 3, 470.
                              37Quoted in Ibid., emphasis added.
                              38Donald J. Gray, personal communication
                                   with author, April 24, 2008.
                         
                    
               

          
          
               
               
               
               
               
          
     
