
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 19, Issue 3, pages 207-302. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:19+issue:3+year:1923&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            The History of an Unusual Library
            BY ELLA LONN,
                    Goucher College, 
                        Baltimore
                    
            
            To the book-lover all libraries with their shelves of alluring titles, with their
                    musty old books tucked away in basements, hold a fascination, but the old
                    library in a small town which traces its ancestry through the Civil war, through
                    the first library movement in the state, back to the very roots of the existence
                    of the town itself must hold interest even for the person who cherishes no
                    special affection for books or their abiding-places.
            In the year 1833 a little embryo village was surveyed and laid out in the
                    north-western corner of the state of Indiana, where a gap in the dense, primeval
                    forest invited the Indians and French to seek a gateway through the timber from
                    one part of the prairie to another, and was poetically named 
                        La Porte
                    .
            It augured well for the literary aspirations of the infant settlement that in the
                    second winter, 1834-5, the few villagers should contribute of their scanty hoard
                    toward a common book-fund. To 
                        New York
                     went the fund; back slowly over pioneer trails came a few books to
                    swell the library already donated from the settlers' personal libraries
                    to the rather remarkable total of nearly three hundred volumes. The books were
                    carefully listed and the library proudly installed in a corner of the office of
                    John B. Niles, the one attorney the place boasted, under the nominal charge of
                    an Englishman  by the name of Whittam. Some
                    of Cooper's Leatherstocking Tales and
                    Lytton's Last Days of Pompeii indicate sufficiently
                    the choices of the day, while the only periodical was The Dial, later the chief
                    organ of the Transcendalists.1
            
            There then comes a long gap, during which the settlers apparently dropped their
                    cooperative effort, possibly because they were more absorbed in exercising the
                    muscles of their bodies in wrestling with the soil and with primitive conditions
                    than in exercising the muscles of their brains. But in the midst of the Civil
                    war the beginnings of the present library are to be found. Although boasting
                    nearly eight thousand inhabitants, 
                        La Porte
                     was without a reading-room or library, except the McClure
                        library,2 to which so few had access that it was
                    practically without influence on the community. A few choice souls, under the
                    impetus of the pastor of the Presbyterian church, determined to organize an
                    institution "to be influential in developing a literary taste by
                    cultivating a habit of reading, to stimulate the mind by promotnig learning, and
                    to furnish a pleasant and useful place of resort."3
                    The effort awakened such enthusiasm that by March 16, 1863, five hundred dollars
                    had been subscribed. On that date the subscribers met in the Grammar School
                    building and effected an organization of the 
                        La Porte
                     Reading-Room and Library Association by the adoption of a
                    constitution and by the election of officers and directors.4
            
            The prompt opening of negotiations with the other library association in the town
                    necessitates a rather lengthy digmasion, which is justified by the link thus
                    established between the 
                        La Porte
                     library and the first library movement in the Central
                    West—a movement of far more than passing or local interest.
            It will be readily recalled by readers familiar with community 
                  
                     1 The above brief account is based upon an
                            interview given a reporter of the Le Porte Herald by
                            Mrs. George L. Andrew, recorded in its issue of January 10, 1921. She
                            tells how she read the Last Days of Pompeii at the
                            ripe age of ten, because that was all the fodder there was for her
                            active little mind, and how she skipped all the hard words until she was
                            detected by an uncle, whereupon she was forced laboriously to read aloud
                            and spell out all the long words. The Spy was one of
                            the very first books she read.
                  
                     2 To be explained later in the paper.
                  
                     3 Jasper Packard, A History of 
                                    La Porte County
                                
                     , 110.
                  
                     4 The names of the officers, one of whom is still
                            alive, are recorded in Packard 110.
               
                     experiments that in 1825 Robert Owen, the
                    famous Welsh manufacturer and philanthropist of New Lanark, after making that
                    factory town renowned as the happiest mill community in 
                        England
                    , turned to the new world to try out a communistic colonization
                    scheme which he believed was to inaugurate a "new moral
                    world." He purchased thirty thousand acres of land at 
                        New Harmony
                     on the lower Wabash river in Posey county,
                    southern Indiana, from 'the Rappites5 in order to
                    have a vast theatre to try out his social reforms.
            Among the eminent men of science6 whom Owen gathered about
                    himself, was William McClure,7 a man of large means, who had
                    traveled far and wide, and who had a deep knowledge of science. Owen gave
                    McClure sole charge of the educational part of his reforms, while McClure, on
                    his side, joined whole-heartedly in the experiment by investing
                    $150,000 and agreeing to focus his plans for educational work in
                    America about Harmony under the Pestalozzian system. The two men shared the
                    ideal of devotion to the improvement of the conditions of the lowly. Although
                    Owen's experiment ended within three years in failure and in that
                    visionary's return to 
                        England
                    , although all McClure's educational experiments failed,
                    one by one, still in his last hours, as he was returning 
                  
                     5 The Rappites is a convenient
                            way of designating the earlier religious socialistic group of 
                                German
                             peasants who had followed George Rapp from Wurtem-berg to
                            found Harmonie in 
                                Butler County
                            , 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , who had then moved to 
                                New Harmony
                             in Indiana in 1816, where they prospered, but who then for
                            some not wholly explained reason sold their estate to Owen in 1824 and
                            removed once more to 
                        Beaver
                                County, Pennsylvania
                     . The mortality from malaria among
                            their membership during the first four or five years Axed their
                            determination, it is said, to sell their plantation as soon as a
                            purchaser could be found, and may partially explain the sacrifice after
                            the malarial conditions had been overcome of their thirty thousand acres
                            of orchard, garden, vineyard, and fields. The Beaver community
                            ultimately ceased to exist and became a conventional corporation of
                            individual holdings. J. H. Levering, Historical
                            Indiana, 241-3.
                  
                     6 The group included, besides McClure, Joseph
                            Neef, a disciple of Pestalozzi, Schoolcraft, a student of Indian lore,
                            Thomas Say, an illustrious zoologist, Dr. Troost, the geologist, and
                            Madam Fretageot, trained in the Pestalozzi school in 
                                Switzerland
                            . Ibid., 269.
                  
                     7 McClure was a Scotchman, who had come to America
                            to make a geological survey of the 
                                United States
                            . He won, in conseguence, the title of Father of American
                            Geology. He was chief founder of the 
                                Philadelphia
                             Academy of Natural Sciences and served it as president for
                            twenty-three years. He was one of the first men ever to sense the value
                            of industrial education and founded an agricultural school in 
                                Spain
                             on ten thousand acres which he afterwards lost because of a
                            political revolution. He and Owen met at New Lanark, whither he had made
                            a pilgrimage to study that model factory community. Ibid, 268-9.
               
                     from a vain quest to 
                        Mexico
                     for health, he directed his last philanthropy to linking together
                    his two pet projects —education and the working-man. By the
                    provisions of his will, his executors were to donate $500 out of his
                        property8 to any club or society of laborers who might
                    establish in any part of the 
                        United States
                     a reading and lecture-room with a library of at least one hundred
                    volumes, laborers being defined as those "who labor with their
                    hands." Over one hundred and sixty9 libraries
                    sprang up accordingly in as many counties of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    ,10 but nearly all were shortlived, for they
                    were formed with a view only to getting the proffered donation, and were even
                    often inspired by an agent who was interested to the extent of securing his fee
                    for the selection and purchase of the books. However, some eighty thousand
                    dollars were thus distributed.11
            
            The city of 
                        La Porte
                     has shared in the munificence of the first of library founders. In
                    the early spring of 186712 an interested 
                  
                     8 The list of McClure's holdings makes
                            interesting reading: 10,000 acres in 
                                New Harmony
                            , over a million reals in Spanish securities, a house in
                            Alacante, the convent of St. Gives, an estate of 10.000 acres in
                            Valencia, a convent and estate at Grosmano, the eatate of Carmen de
                            Croix, 41,000 francs in French securities; notes, and mortgages on
                            properties scattered from Big Lick Plantation in Virginia to parts of
                                    
                        England, France
                     , and 
                                Spain
                            ; also his vast collection of prints and minerals; and
                            nearly 2,000 copper plates of engravings. Ibid., 261.
                  
                     9 G. B. Lockwood in The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement lists 160, but the list is defective as
                            it fails to name the library in La Pork and hence may have missed other
                            McClure libraries. Ibid., 326-7.
                  
                     10 A brother and sister of McClure had assumed the
                            estate, as they had been advised that the trust was void because it had
                            been created for the benefit of corporate bodies not yet in existence.
                            However, a young attorney of Posey county fought the case and secured
                            the establishment of an administratorship with the result that in 1866
                            the distribution of the allotted sums began. Ibid.,
                            266.
                  
                     11 Most of these libraries were foredoomed
                            naturally to early extinction as there was no requirement of a competent
                            custodian, suitable quarters, or endowment to replace worn-out volumes.
                            Most of the books eventually found their way to attics or basements to
                            be eaten by mice. Add to these defects the fact that the preliminary
                            libraries required were usually composed of old books of all sorts
                            hastily gathered together and of little practical value; add still
                            further the fact that the Civil War soon took away many of the members
                            of the associations, and you have a sufficient array of causes fatal to
                            the plan. The one notable exception to the rule of early decay is that
                            of the library at 
                                New Harmony
                             itself, where the Rappists, after repurchasing their old
                            church, gave the wing to be used for the Working Men's
                            Institute Library, and where the large bequests of Dr. Murphy, a
                            citizen, have saved the library. For a fuller account of this entire
                            movement see Lockwood, The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 322-35.
                  
                     12 My two authorities differ as to this date. W.
                            Niles, Historical Sketch of
                        
               
                     agent came to 
                        La Porte
                    , endeavoring to organize a McClure library. He finally applied to
                    some of the railroad men13 from whom he met with a
                    sufficient measure of success to fulfill the conditions of the will. He
                    delivered about three hundred dollars worth of books, charging the balance of
                    the five hundred dollars as compensation for his services. Membership was
                    confined at first to railroad men. After the library had been kept for some time
                    in an office of the machine-shop of the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern
                    Railroad Company, it was transferred to the carpenter-shop. The hope of a larger
                    membership and of an increased circulation prompted the removal of the library
                    uptown to a rented room in the second story of one of the business buildings,
                    but interest lagged and the institute was soon in arrears for rent.14
            
            The directors of the 
                        La Porte
                     Reading-Room and Library Association promptly saw the opportunity
                    of materially increasing the number of their volumes by entering into
                    negotiations with the Working Men's Institute. The terms of the
                    agreement which was soon reached conveyed to the new association the property of
                    the old upon payment of the debts of the institute, which amounted to fifty-six
                        dollars.15 This accession gave the new enterprise a
                    permanent footing at once, enabling it to start with seven hundred volumes, many
                    of which were well-selected works on history, poetry, science, travel, and
                    fiction, while there were also a surprising number of Congressional
                        documents.16 Although most of these volumes 
                  
                     the La Ports Library and Natural History
                            Association, 3-4, says August 16, 1856; Jacob Zook in a manuscript
                            letter preserved in the library says the spring of 1857.
                  
                     13
                            
                                La Porte
                             was at that time a section point on the Lake Shore and
                            Michigan Central Railroad and filled with railroad employees.
                  
                     14 The few facts given above are baaed on the
                            manuscript letter of Mr. Zook already alluded to and on the verbal
                            authority of Mr. William Fergher who took care of the books and nailed
                            them up upon their removal from the railroad office.
                  
                     15 The original contract is deposited in the 
                                La Porte
                             Library, together with a printed copy of the constitution
                            and by-laws of the McClure Working Men's Institute. In case of
                            dissolution of the new organization, the property wan to revert to the
                            McClure Association. The grant to each of the members of the Working
                            Men's Institute of membership in the new library association
                            for one year enumerated by Packard (p. 107) must have been by mutual
                            verbal understanding, as it does not appear in the manuscript contract.
                  
                     16 catalog of the McClure library, printed in
                            1860. Is Still extant and shows a very well-selected list for the time
                            of 520 volumes. In the field of history appear such classics as
                            Macaulay's History of 
                                    England
                                
                     , Gibbons's Decline and
                        
               
                     of the old McClure library have been
                    rebound, some still reveal on the inside cover the label of the Working
                    Men's Institute and in some the original catalog number still appears.
                    Fully nine-tenths of these books are still preserved on the shelves of this
                    library, although not widely circulated, probably a larger proportion of a
                    McClure library than could be found anywhere outside of 
                        New Harmony
                    .
            On May 11, 1863, the board of directors submitted their first report to the
                    association, finding much cause for encouragement in the possession of seven
                    hundred volumes and twenty-nine newspapers, magazines, and reviews and in the
                    occupation of the up-stairs rooms to which the Institute had removed in the vain
                    hope of a renaissance and which the new association had taken over.17
            
            But this encouragement seems scarcely to have been justified, as there were long
                    intervals between the meetings from the date until the close of the year
                        1864.18 The old officers were discouraged, but
                    determined not to stand in the way of others who might be able to give new
                    vitality to the organization and so on December 6, 1864, the officers and board
                    resigned in a body to allow of the election of new. With the new blood there is
                    unmistakable indication of new vigor. The board immediately appointed a
                    committee of one to "prepare the reading-room for occupancy to
                        tomorrow."19 This mandate of expedition would
                    seem to have been measured up to by the one lone member, as the minutes record
                    routine meetings at the society's room from that date on. The
                    association also promptly rechristened itself The 
                        La Porte
                     Library and Natural History Association. November 6, 1865, the
                    first movement was made by the organization toward securing for itself 
                  
                     Fall of the Roman Empire, Rollins's Ancient History, and Fox's Book
                                of Martyrs; in the field of poetry, such writers as Burns, 
                                Spencer
                            , Shakespeare, Shelley, 
                                Milton
                            , Moore, Pope, and Byron; and in the field of science,
                            Darwin'e works. Sixteen volumes of Niles' Weekly Register and one hundred and forty volumes of
                            Congressional documents of the 34th and 35th Congress constituted a
                            truly imposing array for this small library.
                  
                     17 The location of the library at this time rests
                            on the authority of Mr. Niles.
                  
                     18 No meeting occurred from May 11 to October 26,
                            1863, on which latter date the minutes record only a very brief meeting:
                            then again there is an absence of all interest until December 6, 1864.
                            The journal in maquscript is deposited in the library.
                  
                     19 Packard, A History of LO Porte
                                County, 110-1.
               
                     new quarters with the result that before
                    the close of the month it was established in the post-office building. In
                    January of 1868 a fire starting from the carelessness of the masons with their
                    stove on the third floor of the post-office building resulted in damages to the
                    property of the association in the room below to the extent of five hundred
                    dollars. By that year the association had also outgrown the narrow confines of
                    its original objects. It declared its purposes to be, in addition to the
                    maintenance of a library: 
                        to establish a system of instruction by lectures, to collect and preserve
                            a museum of specimens in illustration of the natural sciences, and to
                            furnish such other means of instruction and improvement as may be
                            useful, practicable, and consistent with the above.20
                  
                    
            
            The library made yet one more move before it came into permanent quarters of its
                    own. When Dr. S. B. Collins erected his marble front building in 1871, he
                    offered to the Library Association the free use of the five rooms of his third
                    story for five years. The offer, accepted with alacrity and gratitude, provided
                    spacious quarters for just about six months, for by July 1, 1872, Dr. Collins
                    gave notice that he needed the rooms for his business, offering one hundred
                    dollars a year toward the payment of rental elsewhere.21
            
            This early period from 1864 to 1874 is, in some senses, the most interesting and
                    most brilliant period of the history of the library. Life membership fees were
                    fixed first at fifty dollars, which did not exempt holders from possible
                    assessments of one dollar a year and later at one hundred dollars, which fee
                    held out the lure of one certificate of stock in a non-dividend paying
                    corporation; regular membership fees from five dollars to three per year; and
                    the use of the library bestowed on all members of a family not in
                    "independent businesses." Early in its history it was open
                    from ten in the morning to noon and from seven to ten at night on two days per
                    week, though the reading-room was open daily except Sun- 
                  
                     20 Constitution, as amended August 4, 1868, Art.
                            II, sec. 1. Here, as so often, it was the devotion of a few persons
                            which saved a good cause from wreck. Dr. G. M. Dakin served as president
                            from May 1, 1866, to 1897 with only brief intervals of relief.
                  
                     21 Minutes of the Journal,
                        49.
               
                     days from eight in the morning until noon,
                    from one to six in the afternoon, and from seven until ten in the evening except
                    during the winter months when it closed earlier. But by 1872 the board had
                    reached such liberality as to open the library on Sunday afternoons, as an
                        experiment.26 The more conventional hours of nine in the
                    morning to nine at night were still in the distant future of 1897.
                    Non-subscribers were admitted to the reading-room on payment of five cents each
                    time, providing always that "strangers temporarily stopping in the
                    city" be shown favorable discrimination.
            But that which sheds real lustre on the period is the means whereby the
                    association was financed, for until 1882 it was without invested funds,
                    dependent wholly on membership fees and the wits of its officers. A strawberry
                    festival is recorded as having netted May 19,1877, $23.83; October 2,
                    1871, an art gallery exhibition and promenade social was determined upon, for
                    which the Philharmonic Society and Mannerchor were to be solicited for music;
                    June 3, 1873, a committee being created to sponsor an ice-cream festival;
                    November 3, 1873, the public was invited to meet the board in order to arrange a
                    masquerade ball, which left the members rejoicing with $176 to add to
                    their treasury. But these are the conventional small-town fêtes of
                    the period. Where the association conferred a real benefit upon the community
                    was in the distinguished lecturers which the board brought to the town in its
                    annual lecture courses covering a period of twenty-five years. The list contains
                    such speakers as Emerson, William Lloyd Garrison, Charles Sumner, Wendell
                    Phillips, Bayard Taylor, Benjamin Taylor, Horace Greeley, P. V. Nasby, Susan B.
                    Anthony, George Thompson, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Anna E. Dickinson, Clara
                    Barton, and Mrs. Scott Siddons. The public could scarcely have complained of
                    exploitation even in a good cause when course tickets of four lectures were
                    offered at one dollar, single admissions thirty-five cents. Each of these years
                    during this interval brought donations of books, which meant a steady, if not
                    rapid, growth in the size of the 
                  
                     26 This experiment was voted August 9, 1872, with
                            the careful proviso that the librarian's salary should be
                            increased from $3 a week to $4. The experiment
                            ceased on October 6, 1873.
               
                     library, until by 1874, it numbered between
                    two and three thousand volumes. Perhaps the fact that the rooms were crowded
                    every night with readers explains the strange "calumny" which
                    an early writer felt called open to repudiate that "we are a political
                    institution."
            The efforts to have the library in a permanent home constitute a dramatic chapter
                    in its history from 1874 to 1876. First came the General Orr proposal. He
                    offered to purchase from the Presbyterians their old building and grounds,
                    together with the half-lot adjacent, if it could be purchased for not more than
                    four thousand dollars, and to present it to the association on condition that
                    the structure be preserved to promote the objects of the association, that that
                    organization add a brick addition, and that six thousand dollars or more be
                    raised by the citizens to aid in improving the grounds and in increasing the
                    library and the specimens. Active measures were taken to raise the requisite sum
                    by volunteer subscriptions, no small feat to accomplish in a town of small
                    property-owners between February 21 and May 12. Just at this juncture an
                    unfortunate disagreement between the donor and the board in regard to the
                    arrangement and the repair of the building and in regard to the manner in which
                    the fund should be expended led to a rupture and the reconveying of the property
                    to General Orr.34 But most of the subscribers were agreeable
                    to allowing the money to form a fund for the purchase of a suitable site when
                    opportunity presented.
            Somewhat more than a year later came the second proposal, which seemed to promise
                    a permanent abiding-place. In August, 1875, a prominent banker and
                    property-owner of the city offered to sell the association a corner section for
                    two thousand dollars with a donation of several hundred dollars in money and
                    fifty thousand bricks for the building. But this proposal also came to
                    shipwreck, as the board by November of that year had reached the wise conclusion
                    of rejecting the 
                  
                     34 A cut of General Orr's proposed
                            building appears in an Illuatrated Historiool Atlas of 
                                    La Porte County
                                . The fantastic row of open-air arbors and
                            reading-tables suggests rather Parisian cafes than sober library
                            facilities. This episode left ill-feeling and years of indifference to
                            the library, which it survived only by some fortunate bequests.
               
                     offer unless the conditions stipulated were
                        withdrawn.35 Again the lot was reconveyed and the money
                    refunded to the association.
            Success came at last through independent measures. May 1, 1876, the library board
                    bought of the heirs of N. T. Place a lot centrally located for twelve hundred
                    dollars, the heirs making a small donation to the association. By 1876 a simple
                    but suitable two-story brick structure had been erected but with the almost
                    inevitable concomitant of a debt of a thousand dollars fastened upon it.
            The years from 1877 to 1897 mark another well-defined period during which the
                    library lived in its own quarters as a private institution. With a debt of
                    twelve hundred dollars on its hands the association WM eager to pass on its
                    responsibilities. Early in 1878 a new and especially-elected board leased the
                    library property to the Young Men's Association, a business
                    corporation, at a nominal rental of one dollar, the debt to be assumed by the
                    latter association. But two years later the Library association found itself
                    once more saddled with its old burden, as the Young Men's association
                    canceled the lease. Accordingly, a group of a dozen of the leading citizens came
                    to the rescue with a loan of a hundred dollars each for five years without
                    interest.
            By August, 1880, the board found itself without funds for current expenses and
                    obliged to dismiss the librarian, but reached a strange solution by turning the
                    library over to J. B. Holmes, who in return for the membership fees was to.
                    conduct the library, ostensibly for the benefit of the members, but practically
                    for the benefit of the students of his business college. Oddly enough, the
                    arrangement proved mutually satisfactory and was renewed yearly until his death,
                    late in 1888, whereupon a similar arrangement was entered into with his widow
                    and successively with several other people until 1897.
            Though the interval from 1886 to 1896 marks a decline of interest in the
                        association,40 it brought relief from financial 
                  
                     35 The deed stipulated that a two-story building
                            be erected with a storeroom below, whereas at this time the board
                            inclined to a one-story structure.
                  
                     40 The minutes record no meeting from May 1, 1886,
                            to June 7, 1894, and again no meeting until January 28, 1896. The record
                            of June 7, 1894. shows several women sitting on the board.
               
                     stringency through several fortunate
                    bequests. The will of 
                        Aurora
                     Case had in 1872 made the library heir to a farm of two hundred and
                    seventy acres, subject to a life estate in his son, but it was only upon the
                    death of the latter in 1882 that it became available. After the debts of the
                    association were paid, it was possible to set aside $4,300 as a
                    permanent fund, the interest of which was devoted to the purchase of books.
                    Within about a decade the association received a second bequest from the estate
                    of Mrs. Nancy Treat, one thousand dollars in cash and a lot adjacent to the
                    library valued at $4,000.
            But now appeared a desire to make the library a benefaction to the whole
                    community—a public library. It was felt that the school children and
                    the very element which most needed a library were deprived of its benefits,
                    whereas it was the earnest desire of the members to make the books serve their
                    widest field of usefulness.42 Among the several state laws
                    under which the change could be effected, it was held wise to select the law of
                    1881, which authorized the school board in cities of ten thousand inhabitants to
                    establish a free public library in connection with the common schools and to
                    levy a tax of one-third of a mill on each dollar of taxable property.43 After several meetings of the association, to one of
                    which prominent citizens were invited, and after long negotiations with the
                    school board, it was voted on June 3, 1896, to convey all the property of the
                    association to the city of 
                        La Porte
                     after the building should have been remodeled and enlarged with the
                    funds lying unused in the treasury of the association. A reading-room and
                    children's room, added as wings to each side of the original building,
                    transformed it into a more attractive as well as more commodious structure.
            The board of education assumed control on April 23, 1897, with a small debt for
                    unfinished work, which the city had agreed to assume provided that no tax were
                    to be levied the 
                  
                     42 To the librarian at the time, Mrs. Jennie
                            Jessup, must go a goodly measure of credit for this important step.
                  
                     43.
                            Laws of Indiana, 1881, chap. 27, Secs. 1-2. In 1899
                            the law authorized the board to levy one mill per dollar, but owing to
                            local conditions, it was inadvisable to ask for more than one-half that
                            amount. 
                        
                                    La Porte
                                 Argus, Feb. 14, 1900.
               
                     first year. This left the library without
                    funds for books or rebinding. By the middle of the year 1899, the board was
                    forced to dispense with the assistant librarian for six months and to close the
                    library mornings. And during this period it was kept open only through the
                    generosity of the members of the school board who turned over their salaries for
                    its running expenses.
            The only events which need to be recorded between 1897 and 1920 the next landmark
                    in this library's history, are the erection of the 
                        La Porte
                     public library into a government depository,44
                    the acquisition of the library of Centre township, from which the librarian
                    salvaged about three hundred volumes,45 frequent
                    contributions to the growing museums, and the gift of a complete file of the
                    volumes of the 
                        La Porte
                     Herald, one of the two city papers, extending over a period of
                    sixty-five years.46
            
            A third great landmark in the history of this library came, however, in 1920, an
                    event which linked this little library to the last great benefactor of
                    book-lovers and housed the gift of the first of library creators in one of the
                    last gift of the great giver of library buildings. Because of the crowded
                    condition of the library,47 which prevented the circulation
                    of 
                  
                     44 An almost complete set of government documents,
                            dating from the beginning was sent from 
                                Washington
                             and the library placed on the mailing list for future
                            publications of the government. Unfortunately, the short-sightedness of
                            the school board has recently forced the librarian to return most of
                            these documents-to make room for more useful volumes! It is only to be
                            hoped that some more appreciative library has become the new depository.
                  
                     45 Under an early Indiana law of 1832, certain
                            lots in each township were set apart to be held by township trustees for
                            libraries. For over twenty years the books which had been purchased for
                            Centre township were stored in the Odd Fellows building, until in 1909 a
                            newly-elected trustee in removing town. ship effects to his office
                            turned over the cases of books to the city librarian.
                  
                     46 The set includes a few volumes of the paper
                            when it was known as the Weekly Union, 1856-65. From 1867-9 it was known
                            as the Union Herald; in 1880 it joined with the Chronicle, a competitor, as the Herald
                                Chronicle, of which there are only incomplete files. In 1889 it
                            became the Herald, which name it has since retained unchanged. When, as
                            it is to be hoped, the volumes of the 
                                La Porte
                             Argus, now in the attic of the widow of a former editor of
                            the only other newspaper in the city, are deposited in the library, the
                            newspaper material on the history of the city and the county will have
                            been preserved and made accessible for future historians. The Arm was
                            established April 15, 1869. For convenience this fact is recorded here
                            though the gift was made in 1922.
                  
                     47 The circulation was in 1916 61,688, an increase
                            of one hundred per cent in five years Funds now permitted the purchase
                            of new books every month, but even the creation of temporary shelves did
                            not meet the need. 
                                La Porte
                            
                            Herald, April 6, 1916.
               
                     hundreds of books, the superintendent of
                    the public schools suggested that effort be made to secure a Carnegie library.
                    An appropriation of $27,500 was obtained to which the city was
                    allowed to add $10,000, and after tedious delays, due to the war and
                    consequent building conditions, the new structure was erected, scarcely half a
                    square from the old, and opened on November 6, 1920.
            But interesting as is the library itself, it is its museum which probably
                    entitles the library to a unique place among small town libraries in the central
                    west. It was started, as has already been suggested, in 1868, only a few years
                    after the library movement was launched, with a cabinet and collection of
                    minerals, ores, fossils, and shells under the inspiration of Dr. Higday, one of
                    the directors, who was particularly interested in developing this department. At
                    one time he fathered an excursion to the Indian mounds near the Kankakee river,
                    where he unearthed for the association a large number of flint and copper
                    implements, arrow-heads, pottery, and bones.48
                    Unfortunately, Dr. Higday's intention to label and catalog these early
                    specimens was not carried out because of his death in 1876, and hence the value
                    of the collection has been to a certain extent lost. From one reason or another,
                    various objects have found a depository in the library until it now houses a
                    heterogeneous collection of stuffed birds and animals,49
                    colonial relics, pictures of local interest but of no intrinsic value, reminders
                    of pioneer days, and numerous objects of historical association. But that which
                    makes the collection of real worth to 
                        La Porte
                     is not the spinning wheels, exactly like hundreds of others in a
                    more perfect state of preservation, not the baby-map made in 1839, not fans
                    borne at the courts of Europe, nor even dolls dressed in 
                        Washington
                     in the style of 1848 and sent overland in a pack on a
                    man's back, as the label so carefully informs us, but the articles
                    associated with the local history of the city. That which makes the past real to
                    the people of that community are a 
                  
                     48 Some of the specimens from this excursion were
                            given to the 
                                Chicago
                             historical society before which Dr. Higday read a paper
                            descriptive of this expedition.
                  
                     49 A large and beautiful elk's head, a
                            perfectly stuffed buffalo head, a pair of reindeer antlers could not be
                            surpassed in the largest museum.
               
                     brick from the first saw-mill erected in
                    the country, the surveyor's chain used in making the first survey of 
                        La Porte county
                    , a book with wooden covers actually used in the first Sunday school
                    of a village in the county, objects which recall the pioneer hardships of 1833
                    to 1850,50 articles reminiscent of the community's
                    connection with the Civil war, objects of local interest and
                    pride—but all associated with names well-known in the county.
            One collection will undoubtedly confer on the museum real distinction, as it
                    ranks with the two or three finest collections of its kind in the 
                        United States
                    . W. A. Jones, a retired ironworker of 
                        Chicago
                    , left his collection of arms, numbering over nine hundred pieces,
                    when he died in June, 1921, to the city on condition that provision for its
                    proper housing in the Carnegie library or in an addition thereto be made within
                    a year, in default of which the collection was to go to the Field Museum in 
                        Chicago
                    . Mr. Jones had traveled widely and had spent more than a quarter of
                    a century in collecting these pieces, which represent firearms of all ages,
                    among them some very rare and valuable antiques. The monetary value has been
                    roughly estimated at $90,000,53 and the
                    educational value to the student has been greatly enhanced by a card catalog
                    prepared 
                  
                     50 A wooden cradle made in 1841 enlists special
                            interest because one of the six children rocked in it still lives in the
                            city. A hickory flail suggests the far cry from our motor-driven
                            separators. A pair of saddle bags recalls the sad fate of young Copelin
                            who had returned to Virginia to pay for the new land which he was about
                            to purchase in 
                                La Porte county
                            . His too free tongue at the inns on his road back led to
                            his being followed and murdered only one mile from his
                            brother's home near 
                                La Porte
                            . The hanging of the murderer, we are reminded, was the
                            first to occur in the county. A local call to enroll in the Twenty-first
                            Battery over the signature of a Captain Andrew who still lives in the
                            city is dated Sept. 8, 1862; caps and arms worn by 
                                La Porte
                             men in the Civil war are displayed; and a saddle used by
                            one of the residents on his entire march with Sherman from 
                                Atlanta
                             to the sea makes history live. A firemen's silver
                            water pitcher never fails to awaken the pride of the older men in their
                            local volunteer fire department. During the decade 1870 to 1880
                            tournaments and contests between hose companies were popular. 
                                La Porte
                            's Old Wide Awakes used to
                            participate in these contests with great success. In 1876 the company
                            was presanted by its honorary members, some of the leading citizens of
                            the city, with a silver water pitcher devised in a form to suggest the
                            company, as the lid is surmounted with a fireman's helmet, and
                            the front of the pitcher bears a shield, and an engraved hose-cart. The
                            monograms W. A. H. (Wide Awake Hose Company) appear on each gold-lined
                            goblet. After being tossed around for years with no appreciation the
                            pitcher, reminiscent of a certain phase of development of the city, was
                            suitably brought to the library.
                  
                     53 Although the price of each piece is recorded in
                            the card catalog, it is in cipher.
               
                     by the collector himself, which reflects
                    the great pride and enthusiasm of the collector.54
            
            Here are to be found Chinese ceremonial halberds once used in Buddist temples, a
                    Japanese war scythe, fourteen and a half feet long, an elephant spear, a long
                    narrow-bladed Congo spear, a Ceylonese scimitar; a Spanish
                    bull-fighter's sword; and old flint-lock rifles. Historical interest
                    attaches to some of the pieces, such as a revolutionary musket of the 
                        Brown
                     Bess type; a muskatoon used in cavalry service in the Civil war; a
                    rifle said to have been made for Theodore Roosevelt and stolen by one of his
                    guides who sold it to an old trapper; a Bullard repeater used by surveyors for
                    both the Northern Pacific and Great Northern railroads; a rifle said to have
                    belonged to a Modoc chief; a Royal Mail Coach pistol, said to have been used in
                    colonial days between 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Philadelphia
                    ;55 a navy revolver used by a marine on the
                    Confederate steamship, 
                        Florida
                    ;56 and a mitrailleuse used in the
                    Franco-Prussian war.
            The evolution of many of our fire-arms may be traced by a study of this
                    collection. For instance, the Henry rifle, from which the 
                        Winchester
                     evolved, is represented;57 the Porter revolving
                    rifle; the Sharps Patented sporting rifle of the days before the machine-made
                    rifle; the Hallbreech-loading gun, the first on the market; Ruthe's
                    trap pistol of 1857—this model rare because of the presence of a
                    handle; Colt's house pistol, the first pistol made with a cylinder of
                    four chambers;58 a Japanese match-lock pistol which
                    antedates the first flintlock; a pair of famous Wilkes duelling pistols; a
                    Trantor used 
                  
                     54 The catalog records only six himudred and nine
                            pieces and should be completed.
                  
                     55 When the British took 
                                New York
                             in 1776, they confiscated all the arms they could take, and
                            those not suitable for the army were sent back to 
                                England
                             to be sold at auction. The set in this collection,
                            purchased by a clergyman, was preserved in his family until the death of
                            the last descendant only recently. The arm can be identified as of
                            colonial manufacture, as it lacks the broad narrow marks of the English
                            makes.
                  
                     56 The initials carved on the handle, J. S., C. S.
                            A., S. S. Florida and a flag-justify this conclusion.
                  
                     57 This was the first of the under-loading lever
                            type, also the 5rst with the full-length loading magazine. Thousands
                            were used in the Civil war, the demand exceeding the supply. A regiment
                            armed with them was considered fortunate.
                  
                     58 Jones's own comment on the pair which
                            he secured, which are engraved in relief, inlaid with gold, stocks
                            inlaid with silver with Turkish characters on the stocks is well
                            merited.
               
                     in the Civil war; a Colt army revolver made
                    for service in the Phillippines with extra large trigger guard to be used with
                    gloves because of the thorns; and a Wheellock, a type used in the seventeenth
                    century and so-called because the lock must be wound with a key before firing,
                    all are to be found here.
            Many are the pieces which the owner regarded as "one of the rarest
                    pieces in my collection": a revolving rifle with a brass-nickled frame
                    inlaid with fancy brass figures; a rare old coach blunderbuss, the lock carved
                    with Arabic characters; a Swiss hand-carved blunderbuss, clearly made in Europe,
                    doubly rare because of the oval muzzle, a piece only duplicated in
                    Sawyer's collection in the 
                        Boston
                     museum; an East 
                        India
                     match-lock with elaborate carving on the barrel, said to have
                    belonged to a prince, who paid a fabulous sum for it; an old-time Turkish
                    blunderbuss; a three-barreled percussion shotgun;, a single-shot,
                    breech-loading, hammerless rifle; the only one Jones ever knew; pistols inlaid
                    with ivory, with mother-of-pearl, with gold or with silver; a magazine pistol
                    fed by gravity; a four-barrel flint-lock, picked up in the Thieves Market of 
                        Mexico City
                    ; a pepper-box with a barrel eleven inches long in one piece,
                    revolving only by hand; and a Japanese percussion pistol, a pretty conceit as it
                    is a combination of pistol and writing outfit.58
            
            The present librarian dreams of two more changes to round out a long period of
                    service extending over twenty-three years. She desires to see the present
                    incorporation under the school board forsaken for the wider field of usefulness
                    which the library may serve by incorporation under the county library law of
                        1917.60 Already the library has a number of subscription
                    members outside the city, practically all the county teachers paying the fee
                    exacted of all except residents of the city of 
                        La Porte
                    . This progressive step would enable this library to help solve the
                    rural library problem and help strengthen one of the weakest spots in the
                    organization of the smaller schools of the state of Indiana—lack of
                    library facilities. Township libraries have proved uneconomical and 
                  
                     59 The writing-brush is carried in the barrel of
                            the pistol, the ink-well in the rear of the hammer with a hinged cover.
                  
                     60 Thirteen counties in Indiana have availed
                            themselves of this plan.
               
                     inefficient, as certain general books are
                    duplicated, and rarer books cannot be indulged in because of the expense, while
                    the overhead expense of underpaid, underworked librarians is a constant,
                    unnecessary drain. The county library, on the other hand, means better service,
                    economy in methods of purchase and supervision; and a common fund for expensive
                    and technical books. The cost spread over a whole county is nominal.61
            
            The second dream is an annex beside the main library building with a curator to
                    arrange, classify, and label the large, valuable, but now badly-classified
                    collections in the museum and thus enlist the interest and deepen the pride of
                    each citizen in his local history.
            
               
                  61 See the article by W. J. Hamilton in the 
                            La Porte
                        
                        Argus Jan. 25, 1921.
            
         
         
         
            Dr. John Evans
            By J. WESLEY WHICKER, 
                        Attica
                    
            
            Many of the first families to settle in the northern portion of 
                        Fountain county
                    , particularly in Attica and vicinity, came from Waynesville, Warren
                    counuty, 
                        Ohio
                    . Among those emigrants who came to Attica about 1839 was Dr. John
                    Evans. He had graduated at a medical college in 
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
               , and had practiced less than a year at
                            
                  Ottawa, Illinois
               . He was a brother
                    of Mrs Wilson Claypool, who lived about three miles south of 
                        Attica
                    , near Shawnee creek on Shawnee prairie, and he had a very extensive
                    colony of friends and acquaintances. He soon built up a lucrative practice in
                    his profession. About 1840 he built a very good residence on Perry street, about
                    two blocks from the business district, and this building remained until 1879. In
                    1841 he built an office in which to conduct his practice. This building still
                    stands on Main street and is occupied as a grocery store. When Dr. Evans
                    practiced in Attica there was no railroad or water way other than the
                        Wabash river and many of the farmers in this locality
                    made occasional trips to 
                        Chicago
                     with the products of the farm, returning with manufactuured goods,
                    preferring this to the more arduous trips to 
                        New Orleans
                     by flatboat. Some of the goods were hauled to 
                        Chicago
                     by ox teams and some by horses. There were grist mills, saw mills,
                    packing houses and distilleries along the Wabash river in
                    every direction from Attica and the products of the packing houses, flouring
                    mills and distilleries of this locality were quite often hauled overland to the
                    city of 
                        Chicago
                     and exchanged for merchandise. On one of these trips Dr. John Evans
                    joined some of his friends and was favorably impressed at once with the
                    possibility of the growing city on the lake. He pictured its future so vividly
                    and told his associates of the great future in store for 
                        Chicago
                    , and, though they listened indulgently to his predictions, they
                    considered him much of a dreamer; but he was more than a  dreamer. He was a dreamer who tried to make his
                    dreams come true. One day, when the spirit of prophecy was upon him he declared
                    to a group of his fellow townsmen that before he died he intended to build a
                    city, to found a college, to be governor of one of the states of the union and
                    to go to the 
                        United States
                     senate, to amass a fortune and make himself famous. His friends had
                    heard him prophesy so often that they half way believed some of his prophecies
                    and this one impressed them so much that it WM so often repeated that it became
                    a part of the local folk lore. In about 1840 Dr. Evans and his wife became very
                    deeply interested in Dorothy Dix and her gospel of humane and scientific care
                    for the insane and imbued with the idea that the insane should be cared for at
                    the expense of the state. In the fall of 1841 William G. Bales, then the sheriff
                    of 
                        Vermillion county
                    , Indiana, placed his mute son in the Ohio institution. When he took
                    his son there he became very much interested in the enterprise of educating the
                    deaf and dumb and the next year he was elected to represent his county in the
                    legislature. Dr. C. V. Jones of 
                        Covington
                    , Indiana, was the family physician of William C. Bales. Dr. Jones
                    WM well acquainted with Dr. John Evans and his wife and their interest in the
                    state providing asylums for the blind, mute and insane. Through Dr. Jones Mr.
                    Bales and Dr. Evans became acquainted. In 1842 James McLean, a mute, commenced a
                    school in Parke county. This school was continued for more than a year, but at
                    no time contained more than six pupils. William Crumpton of 
                        Attica
                    , Indiana, then one of the leading merchants, was a patron of the
                    McLean school, and Mr. Crumpton and Dr. Isaac Fisher of Attica and Dr. John
                    Evans, Edward A. Hannegan of 
                        Covington
                     and Dr. Caleb V. Jones, of 
                        Covington
                    , and their wives made an organization to commence a united effort
                    to carry out in the state of Indiana through its legislature the principles of
                    Dorothy Dix, "that the state should take care of the mute, the blind
                    and the insane." On January 5, 1842, Edward A. Rannegan representing 
                        Fountain county
                     in the lower house of the legislature presented to the Indiana
                    house the memorial of Dr. John Evans and Dr. Isaac Fisher of 
                        Attica
                    , with a number of other petitions in relation to the establishment
                    of an asylum for the  insane. Jacob P. Dunn
                    says of Dr Evans in connection with his efforts to establish an asylum for the
                    insane: 
                        Later developments show that the moving spirit was Dr. Evans, who was one
                            of the most notable men that ever lived in the state. He left a trail of
                            beneficences, half way across the continent. He was born near
                            Waynesville, 
                                Ohio
                            , March 9, 1814, and was descended from one of the oldest 
                                Quaker
                             families of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            . His great-grandfather was a manufacturer of tools in 
                                Philadelphia
                             and this handicraft came down in the family, his uncle,
                            Owen Evans, being the inventor of the screwing auger. His grandfather
                            moved to 
                                South Carolina
                             but soon left there because of his objection to slavery and
                            settled in the wilds of Ohio where he farmed and manufactured augers,
                            until he retired with a fortune. His son David, Dr. John's
                            father, was a farmer and John grew up on the farm with usual country
                            school advantages, but when grown up he went to 
                                Philadelphia
                             and took a course in the Clermont academy. He then began
                            the study of medicine, and in 1839 he married Hannah Canby, a cousin of
                            Gen. E. R. S. Canby, and they immediately located at 
                                Attica
                            , where he soon acquired some reputation as a physician and
                            financier. The memorial of 1842 was referred to the committee on
                            education of which Dr. James Richey of 
                                Franklin
                            , himself a prominent physician, was chairman. On January
                            23, 1842, Dr. Evans made an extended report setting forth the importance
                            of the matter and quoting a report of the Ohio asylum from which he
                            says, "We find that there have been applications made for the
                            admission of thirteen insane persons from this state into the Ohio
                            Insane asylum. These applicants have been refused for want of room. What
                            burning shame should crimson the cheek of every Indianian on being
                            informed of the foregoing fact in view of the facts and the great
                            necessity of speedy action upon this important subject. The committee
                            recommended the adoption of a resolution instructing the governor to
                            correspond with the superintendents of asylums in other states and
                            secure plans for buildings and other information, which plans and
                            information he shall communuicate to the next General Assembly, with
                            recommendations on the subject of the immediate undertaking of the
                            erection of an Indiana Lunatic Asylum, as he may think
                        proper."
                    
            
            This resolution promptly passed both houses, and was approved by the governor on
                    January 31,1842. The governor apparently did nothing, at least nothing of
                    importance, and did not mention the subject in his next message, but on December
                    27,1842, a second memorial from Dr. John Evans and Dr. Isaac Fisher, both of 
                        Attica
                    , was presented suggesting the propriety of appropriating the
                    Indiana share of the proceeds of the public lands to the erection of a lunatic
                    asylum. This  was referred to the committee
                    on finance which on January 2, 1843, reported its intense sympathy with the
                    project, but with this most unhappy condition of so many of our fellow citizens
                    before us, it is with much regret that your committee, owing to the extremely
                    embarrassed condition of the finances of the state recommend a postponement of
                    the further consideration of the subject. This was concurred in and the
                    committee discharged, but the legislature showed its sentiment by a rather sharp
                    resolution of February 13, 1843, declaring that delay in the matter was criminal
                    and making it the duty of the governor to correspond and report as before
                    directed, whereupon it shall be the duty of the legislature to adopt proper
                    measures for the immediate erection of a lunatic asylum in the state of Indiana.
            Dr. Evans, Dr. Fisher, William Crumpton, Edward A. Hannegan and William C. Bales,
                    of Vermillion counuty, nominated Dr. Caleb V. Jones of 
                        Covington
                     for the state senate, and he was elected in the fall election of
                    1843 as a Democrat. This was a victory for the 
                        Fountain county
                     doctors and their friends as it gave them a friend in the upper
                    house of the state legislature in whom they had absolute confidence, and upon
                    whose support they could depend. The representatives in the lower house from
                            
                  Fountain, Warren, Vermillion
                and Parke counties regardless of their
                    politics, through the influence of Dr. Evans and Dr. Fisher, William Crumpton
                    and Edward A. Hannegan and William C. Bales, were all pledged to the support of
                    a bill to establish an asylum for the insane. Before the election of Dr. Jones
                    there had been no active member in the upper house of the legislature to defend
                    the bill, and when the legislature convened in 1843 the 
                        Fountain county
                     advocates of the principles of Dorothy Dix for the care of the
                    insane felt that they were now able to put up a determined fight and they
                    attended the legislature in a body. A more determined body of politicians, with
                    deeper convictions for a principle which they believed to be just and right
                    never appeared before a law making body than was this representation from 
                        Fountain county
                    . They were in direct correspondence with Dorothy Dix and in
                    sympathy with her advanced ideas. 
                        Fountain county
                     well may be proud of this splendid delegation.
            
            In his message of December 5, 1843, Governor James Bigger referred to this
                    resolution and said this duty had been attended to and the documents and
                    information, which have been collected, are in the possession of I. P. Smith
                    Esq., who is preparing plans and specifications in relation to an asylum which
                    will be ready to be laid before the legislature in the course of a few days.
                    Smith was an architect at New 
                        Albany
                    . The medical profession had resolved on a change of base, and,
                    without waiting on Smith's report on December 13, a communication from
                    James Matthews was presented in the senate and referred to the committee on
                    education. On December 19 Senator George W. Carr, of Lawrence, reported from
                    this committee deep sympathy and appreciation of the importance of the measure
                    but owing to the great debt of the state and the heavy taxes, under the
                    circumstances it would be inexpedient to legislate upon that subject at the
                    present. But Drs. Matthews and Jones were in the senate and determined the bill
                    should go through. On motion of Senator Buell the communication of Dr. Matthew
                    was recommitted to the committee on education with instructions to report the
                    probable expense of an asylum, the time it would take to complete it and all
                    other matters thereto appertaining. This was followed by an invitation to Dr.
                    Evans to address the legislature on the subject, also by a second communuication
                    from Dr. Matthews, which with the plans of Mr. Smith was also referred to the
                    same committee. The upper and lower house of the legislature met in joint
                    session to listen to an address of a private citizen on this important subject.
                    Seldom, if ever, has such respect and recognition been paid to a private citizen
                    by any law making body. Dr. Evans made an able presentation of the entire
                    subject before the legislature and a large audience of citizens. It was printed
                    in full in the Sentinel, December 29-30. The majority of the committee on
                    education was convinced and on January 12, 1844, Dr. Richey reported for the
                    committee urging immediate action and recommending a tax of one cent on the
                    hundred dollars. The report was adopted and the tax levied. At the beginning of
                    the next session Dr. John Evans was promptly on hand, supported by his friends
                    from 
                        Fountain county
                    , with another memorial. There was an  improvement in the situation. He still had his
                    friends, Dr. Jones in the senate and Gov. James Whitcomb in the
                    governor's office. He warmly espoused the charitable work,
                    notwithstanding his anxiety to get out of the financial tangle. In his opening
                    message he said: 
                        While on this subject I desire earnestly to call your attention to the
                            importance of providing an institution for the education of the blind
                            and for the construction of the lunatic asylum. Modern philanthropy has
                            happily devised the means of educating those who were deprived of sight
                            and we should regard it as a secred debt which we owe to these
                            unfortunates to afford them the benefits of this benevolent discovery.
                            It is now ascertained that insanity, the most terrible disease that
                            afflicts our race, will in a majority of cases readily yield to medicine
                            and kind treatment. If these means are resorted to in time it's
                            wretched subjects would thus be restored to the kindly charities of the
                            domestic circles, to the benefit of society, and to their various
                            relations, obligations and advantages as members of the state. Surely
                            these unfortunate classes are entitled to our warmest sympathy and
                            relief to the extent of our ability is called for by sound economy, by
                            enlightened policy, by the gratitude that we owe to a merciful
                            providence for our own exemption from these evils and by the obligation
                            of religion.
                    
            
            The campaign of 1843 in 
                        Fountain county
                     was a very active one. Dr. Evans, Dr. Isaac Fisher and William
                    Crump-ton, then the leading merchant of 
                        Attica
                    , Edward A. Hannegan, Dr. Caleb V. Jones of 
                        Covington
                    , and William C. Bales of 
                        Vermillion county
                     were very active not only in securing the election of Dr. Jones to
                    the state senate but regardless of differences in politics they were all
                    supporting James Whitcomb for governor. In this campaign there was a great
                    display of oratory. Governor Bigger was running for reelection. He was a
                    graduate of 
                        Athens
                     (
                        Ohio
                    ) University, a distinguished legislator and judge, and an eloquent
                    stump speaker. The Democrats nominated James Whitcomb, formerly a sup porter of 
                        Clay
                    . This was an agricultural community and the Democrats showed by the
                    logic of statistics that workmen in the factories were receiving five hundred
                    dollars per year while farm hands were receiving only two hundred thirteen
                    dollars per year. There were at least twenty farm hands in this locality to one
                    factory man. They showed that the farm products were not protected, but when
                    such products were manu-  factured into
                    goods, they were highly protected; that the farmers' wheat and corn
                    were free, but the plow and other farm implements that they bought were
                    protected. The best market for Indiana farmers was among the planters of the
                    South; these same planters were being ruined by the high tariff. It was the
                    first time that the protective policy had been challenged in Indiana and it
                    created considerable alarm in the Whig camp. Edward A. Hannegan was a candidate
                    for the 
                        United States
                     senate. Andrew Kennedy, who was then in congress from the Muncey
                    district, was raised in 
                        Attica
                    , his father, brothers and sisters lived here and he had married the
                    daughter of Phillip Weaver. There was a very large family of the Weavers here.
                    Both of these families had formerly been Whigs but they were Friends and a part
                    of the clientele of Dr. Evans. That element of the Whig party from this county
                    which was supporting James Whitcomb for governor and Caleb V. Jones for the
                    state senate gathered about Dr. John Evans as their political leader. As a
                    result of this campaign Andrew Kennedy was returned to congress, James Whitcomb
                    was elected governor, Caleb V. Jones was elected to the state senate from this
                    district and the large majority for the Democratic ticket, at that election, in
                    this part of the state, was credited to the influence of Dr. Evans. When he
                    appeared before the legislature in 1843 to continue his efforts for the
                    establishment of an asylum for the insane and schools for the mutes and the
                    blind at the expense of the state, he was not only acquainted with the state
                    officers in charge, but they were all deeply indebted to him. The handicap he
                    had encountered in his previous efforts was now gone. During the session of the
                    legislature of the years of 1843 and 1844 Dr., Evans and his wife spent the
                    winter in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Upon his return to Attica in the spring he presented his petition
                    to the Masonic lodge and was made a Mason by Attica lodge number eighteen, June
                    28, 1844, and was demitted June 17, 1845. When Dr. Evans was a young man in Ohio
                    one of his friends and associates was Henry Benson. Henry Benson was related to
                    the Campbells, who lived in the Bethel neighborhood. In 1838 Henry Benson was
                    visiting his relatives here and there was a great revival meeting at the
                    Methodist church at Bethel. He was only a boy, but he became very much inter-
                         ested in this meeting and went back
                    home and united with the Methodist church in 
                        Ohio
                    . The Campbells in Bethel neighborhood also came from Waynesville, 
                        Warren county
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . Henry Benson afterward graduated from DePauw University. In 1840
                    and 1841 Henry Benson visited his friends and acquaintances in the neighborhood
                    of Attica and among them was Dr. Evans and his wife. He preached at Attica and
                    Bethel, and through his influence Dr. Evans and wife united with the Methodist
                    church in 
                        Attica
                    . Both Henry Benson and Edward A. Hannegan were personal friends of
                    Bishop Matthew Simpson, and through them Dr. Evans, after he had united with the
                    Methodist church at 
                        Attica
                    , became acquainted with Bishop Simpson.
            In the year of this campaign of 1843 William Willard, a mute from the east,
                    learning of the interest in Indiana in public maintenance of charitable
                    institutions, visited this state and established a school for his fellow
                    defectives. Now with Dr. Evans well established in the political circles of the
                    state, Willard's work was looked upon with favor, and in 1844 the state
                    opened the school with Mr. Willard in charge. Such men as Henry Ward Beecher,
                    Bishop Matthew Simpson and Dr. Evans took an active interest in the work. A site
                    for the school consisting of one hundred thirty acres near 
                        Indianapolis
                     was purchased in 1846. In 1850 a spacious building was erected. The
                    school has been entirely successful and still flourishes.
            The organization of Whigs that gathered about Dr. Evans in the election of 1843
                    in 
                  Fountain, Warren, Vermillion
               
                    and Park counties had practically all of them descended from the same 
                        Quaker
                     stock that came from North and 
                        South Carolina
                     to southwestern 
                        Ohio
                    , and a great many of them had a birthright in the 
                        Quaker
                     church. Perhaps two-thirds of them between 1835 and 1845 had united
                    with the Methodist church. There was a great religious awakening, particularly
                    among the Quakers and the Methodists in this locality, from 1840 to 1844, which
                    probably extended over large portions of the state. Logan Esarey says: 
                        The Whig junto at 
                                Indianapolis
                             was driven from power, after a continuous administration of
                            eighteen years. The Methodists and Presbyterian  churches deserted the Whigs, especially
                            after it became apparent that Clay was to be the candidate in 1844. As
                            soon as Harrison was dead, Clay and his followers began squaring away
                            for the race in 1844. A barbecue in 
                                Clay
                            's honor was prepared at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Oh ber 5, 1842. Delegations from all parts of the state
                            visited the capitol to hear their leader. It was determined to conduct a
                            campaign along the old lines. Van Buren was the only Democratic
                            candidate above the horizon at that time. Had he been the candidate in
                            1844, the plan of the Whigs might have been carried to success, but, as
                            it turned out, their course was fatal. Such men as Robert Dale Owen,
                            Joseph A. Wright, Andrew Kennedy, James Whitcomb and John W. Davis
                            preached a new democracy, and were more than a match for the old Whigs.
                            They pleaded for human rights, individual liberty, private initiative;
                            that it was more the duty of the state to care for the unfortunate, the
                            feeble, educate the children, and foster individual development than to
                            concern itself entirely with aiding bankers, manufacturers and
                            transportation companies.
                    
            
            Senator William Allen came from Ohio to canvass for the Democrats and here is a
                    fair sample, says Esarey, of the eloquence of the young Democratic speakers in
                    the campaign of 1843-44: 
                        Democracy is a sentiment not to be appalled, corrupted or compromised; it
                            knows no baseness, cowers at no danger, oppresses no weakness. Fearless,
                            generous, humane, it rebukes the arrogant, cherishes honor and
                            sympathizes with the humble; it asks nothing it will not concede, it
                            concedes nothing it does not demand. Destructive only to despotism, it
                            is the only preserver of liberty, labor and property. It is the
                            sentiment of freedom, equal rights, and equal obligations.
                    
            
            With the charitable, religious and reform sentiment espoused by the Democrats and
                    cherished by the Methodists, Presbyterians and Quakers in this locality; with
                    such men as Solon Turman, Andrew Kennedy, Edward A. Hannegan and Gen. Tilghman
                    A. Howard speaking in 
                  Fountain,
                            Warren, Vermillion
                and Park counties, it was an easy matter
                    for Dr. Evans to secure the support of his friends and acquaintances of the
                    Democratic party in these four counties. In addition to this was the candidacy
                    of C. V. Jones of 
                        Covington
                     for the state senate, the local interest in Attica in the political
                    success of Andrew Kennedy and the desire on the part of both General Howard and
                    Edward A. Hannegan to be the Democratic can-  didate for the 
                        United States
                     senate at the next session of the legislature.
            This emphasis on religion, giving Governor Whitcomb credit for the utmost
                    sincerity, suggests the possibility of an influence, perhaps unconscious, of
                    church politics. As has been mentioned, Governor Bigger was defeated for
                    reelection largely through the influence of the Methodists. Dr. Evans had become
                    an intimate friend of Bishop Simpson and under his eloquent preaching had become
                    converted and joined the Methodist church, of which he was thereafter one of the
                    most zealous and useful lay members. He was an able politician of the better
                    class and it is hardly imaginable that he did not make himself felt in that
                    campaign. At any rate, he was on the best of terms with Governor Whitcomb. His
                    memorial and the part of the governor's message quoted were referred to
                    the senate committee on education and December 28, 1844, Dr. Ritchy reported for
                    the committee in favor of creating a commission to purchase a site and take
                    charge of the erection of a buiding. An act for that purpose was approved
                    January 13, 1845, making Dr. Evans, Dr. Livington Dunlap and James Blake
                    commissioners. They selected and purchased the Bolton farm west of White river,
                    which had been made historic by its "Mount 
                        Jackson
                     Tavern" presided over by Sarah T. Bolton. They wanted more
                    light before adopting plans, but had no "junketing"
                    appropriation. Dr. Evans volunteered to visit existing institutions at his own
                    expense and trust to the legislature to reimburse him. He went to all of the
                    principal institutions of the country, consulted experts and reformers,
                    including Miss Dix, and on June 22, 1845, reported the results to the
                    commission, with admirable detail not only as to the general plan of a building
                    but also as to the practical features of water supply, heating, drainage,
                    ventilation and the like. This was submitted to the legislature with the
                    commission's report. They had discarded the Smith plans, and had new
                    ones made by John R. Elder, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , utilizing the information collected by Evans. By act of February
                    19,1846, they were directed to proceed with the work; additional appropriations
                    were made; and they were authorized to sell Hospital Square No. 22 and use the
                    proceeds. The building  was begun promptly
                    and pushed as fast as the proceeds of the tax would allow. Two wards were opened
                    for patients in December, 1848, accommodating forty applicants and the reminder
                    of the south wing was completed in the sumer of 1849. The entire building, when
                    finished in 1850, had cost $75,000.
            Dr. Evans continued with the institution until the summer of 1848. After the
                    passage of the act of 1846 the commission felt the need of a superintendent of
                    construction and decided that Evans was the one man for the place. He resigned
                    from the commission to accept it and Dr. J. S. Bobbs was appointed in his place.
                    Evans had removed to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where he had an extensive practice, in addition to his work on the
                    building; but in 1845 he had been appointed a lecturer at Rush Medical college
                    at 
                        Chicago
                     and he foresaw the possibilities of that city, which he had first
                    visited with some farmer friends who tried hauling produce overland to that
                    point from 
                        Attica
                    , instead of flat-boating to 
                        New Orleans
                    . He removed to 
                        Chicago
                     in 1848 and at once became a leading spirit there, his first move
                    being the issue of a pamphlet combating accepted ideas on cholera and advocating
                    strict quarantine as a preventive. He edited for a number of years the
                    Northwestern Medical and Surgical Journal and founded the Illinois General
                    Hospital of the Lakes, later Mercy Hospital. He was instrumental in establishing
                    the Methodist Book Concern and the Northwestern Christian Advocate. He was one
                    of the promoters of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     & 
                        Chicago
                     Railroad, secured its valuable right of way into 
                        Chicago
                     and was for years its resi-ent managing director.
            There is an old neglected cemetery in the southern part of the city of 
                        Attica
                    . This for many years was the cemetery in which all of the first
                    settlers of this locality buried their dead, and here are many silent messages
                    of many forgotten incidents of interest. Seldom are there any visitors to this
                    neglected graveyard and in the summer and fall it is a tangle of briar, bush and
                    vine. Near the north side is a dilapidated iron fence enclosing a tangle of
                    weeds and briars. The iron fence is set in a stone foundation. Everything about
                    this little plot of burial ground shows that once there had been the touch of
                         fond memories and sweet recollections;
                    that it was designed and erected by loving hands. In this tangle of briars and
                    weeds and vines rises an imposing shaft, the largest that was ever erected in
                    the cemetery, and three small marble stones. The following inscription is
                    chiseled on the marble shaft, "Hannah R., wife of Dr. John Evans, born
                    at 
                  Lebanon, Ohio
               , June 9,1813; died at 
                  Chicago, Illinois
               , October 9, 1850." The three
                    sons buried beside the larger grave died in Attica and the body of Mrs. Evans
                    was brought overland in a wagon pulled by two horses from 
                        Chicago
                     to Attica for burial.
            In 1853 Dr. John Evans became the chief promoter of Northwestern University, and
                    selected its site, which was named 
                        Evanston
                     in his honor. By reserving a quarter of each block for endowment
                    and making investments for it in the heart of 
                        Chicago
                     he established its splendid financial foundation. He also endowed
                    chairs to the extent of $100,000 and was president of the board of
                    trustees for forty-two years. He also got into politics as a city councilman in
                    1852-3 and did good work for the 
                        Chicago
                     schools by securing the appointment of a superintendent of schools
                    and the establishment of the first high school. He was an original Republican
                    and ran for congress in 1855, but was defeated because he would not indorse the
                    Knownothing doctrine. He had become a personal friend of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    , while at 
                        Attica
                    , and as a delegate to the convention of 1860 helped nominate him
                    for President.
            The six years that Dr. Evans lived in Attica had more to do with directing and
                    determining his future than any other period of his life. Here he became
                    acquainted with Henry Benson, afterwards editor of the Pacific Advocate, missionary to the Indians in 
                        Oklahoma
                    , and one of the most eloquent speakers and influential men in the
                    Methodist church on the Pacific coast; Bishop Matthew Simpson and Solon Turman,
                    who was state senator from this district in 1850 and afterwards judge of the
                    supreme court of the state of Indiana; Geneal Tilghman A. Howard of 
                        Rockville
                    , Park county; James R. M. Bryant of 
                  Williamsport, Warren
                            county
               ; Henry S. Lane of 
                  Crawfordsville, Montgomery county
               ; R. W. Thompson of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Vigo county; Albert S. White, 
                        United States
                     senator of 
                  Lafayette, Tippecanoe
                    county
               ; Caleb B.
            
            Smith; Gov. James Whitcomb; Andrew Kennedy; Robert Dale Owen; C. V. Jones; Edward
                    A. Hannegan, afterwards 
                        United States
                     senator; Dorothy Dix; Judge David Davis of Illinois and Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    . As long as he lived in Indiana and Illinois he never lost interest
                    in Attica and every fall when the apples were ripe and the wild grapes could be
                    gathered and the bitter sweet, the aster and the golden rod, and other fall
                    flowers were in bloom and fruits were ripe, Dr. Evans would come to Attica to
                    spend a few days with his friends. He would go to the woods and kill some wild
                    game, and fish along Pine Creek and Shawnee, and then go back for another year
                    of arduous work. He looked forward with great delight to the yearly visit with
                    his friends and relatives and with equal interest they awaited his coming. He
                    never lost interest in his friends and acquaintances here and they never lost
                    interest in him. In 1860 he espoused the cause of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     as a candidate for President of the 
                        United States
                     on the Republican ticket. He appealed to his friends in Indiana and
                    with the same trust and devotion that 
                        Fountain county
                     had shown to him and his interests in the campaign of 1843 they
                    answered again for the campaign of 1860. During the time that Douglas and 
                        Lincoln
                     were having their joint debates over the state of Illinois Dr.
                    Evans paid one of his annual visits to Attica and he and his Republican friends
                    here attended one of these joint debates. Among those who went with him on this
                    occasion was Ed. Town, George Worthington, Harry Brant, Luke Whicker and Dr.
                    Alexander Whitehall. Dr. Evans and Dr. Whitehall were credited the honor of
                    sitting on the speaker's stand as a guest of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     to listen to the joint debate between 
                        Lincoln
                     and Douglas. His friends here have always claimed that it was Dr.
                    Evans who financed 
                        Lincoln
                    's campaign for the nomination on the Republican ticket for
                    President and assured him he need not be embarrassed in any way in that campaign
                    or apply to anyone else for financial help; that he had never spent money with a
                    freer hand or in a cause in which he was more deeply interested than the money
                    that he would spend for 
                        Lincoln
                    's nomination. He was a delegate from his congressional
                    district to the Republican national convention in 1860. He was thoroughly  acquainted with the politics of Indiana,
                    with the politics of Illinois and the politics of 
                        Chicago
                    , and it was largely through his influence and acquaintance assisted
                    by Henry S. Lane of 
                        Crawfordsville
                     and Caleb B. Smith of the Fourth congressional district that every
                    delegate at that convention from the state of Indiana voted first, last and all
                    the time for the nomination of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    . Indiana was the only state in the union that cast every vote in
                    that memorable convention from first to last for 
                        Lincoln
                    . It was said that he contributed very liberally toward the campaign
                    fund for 
                        Lincoln
                    's election. His contemporaries of 1840 to '48
                    showed some recognition of his relentless energy and conceded that largely due
                    to his efforts that the Democrats won in 1843. In 1846 the insane hospital
                    commissioners, James Blake, Drs. Dunlap and Bobbs, testified that he was the
                    first to press the duty of making provisions for the insane upon the attention
                    of the legislature in the state of Indiana. In 1847 Dorothy Dix visited Indiana
                    and inspected jails and poor houses in half the counties of the state. She had
                    by that time carried her crusade into many of the states and everywhere found
                    them much the same. In Indiana she found the conditions better than the average.
                    And in that year she wrote: 
                        To the present superintendent of this excellent work, Dr. Evans, the
                            citizens of Indiana owe a debt of gratitude which few can estimate
                            because it is the few who have the opportunity of understanding the
                            measure of his labors or ability requisite for devising and carrying out
                            such plans as are comprised in the Indiana state hospital for the
                            insane.
                    
            
            And now he had reached the place where his acquaintance and reputation were
                    bringing him fast into the limelight as a national character. The state of
                    Indiana, the state of Illinois and the city of 
                        Chicago
                     recognized in him a man of integrity of purpose, generous to a
                    fault, a statesman and a financier and no one knew his ability and appreciated
                    him more than did Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    .
            In 1861 
                        Lincoln
                     offered to appoint him governor of 
                        Washington
                     territory, which he declined; but in 1862 he accepted an
                    appointment as governor of Colorado territory, and became its active war
                    governor. In 1865 Colorado elected him 
                        United States
                     senator, and asked admission to the Union; but the  move was prevented in the hostility of President
                    Johnson. He inaugurated the movement for Colorado Seminary, later the University
                    of 
                        Denver
                    , in 1863, and made donations to it to the amount of
                    $150,000. In 1869, when the Union Pacific built its line north of 
                        Denver
                    , and refused to connect with that city, he secured the 
                        Denver
                     Pacific land grant from congress and built the road from 
                        Denver
                     to Cheyenne, 106 miles. Next he built the South Park railroad, and
                    then started the 
                  Denver, Texas
                and Gulf to give the
                    shortest possible line to the seaboard. In 1870, on the competion of the line to
                    Cheyenne, a state celebration was held at Greeley and Mount Evans was named in
                    his honor—the name being formally confirmed by the legislature of
                    Colorado in 1895, on his eighty-first birthday. Such was the monument prepared
                    for him when he died at 
                        Denver
                    , July 3, 1897.
            In the cause of humanity the battle of his life was fought, a part of the time a
                    fierce and stormy conflict. He was one of the prophets of his age. Born in the
                    gray twilight of the nineteenth century, his prophetic eye pierced through the
                    intervening years to and beyond the golden twilight of the. twentieth, and when
                    he viewed man's progress and beheld his glorious destiny this matchless
                    seer rang out the old and rang in the new. He stood by the side of the great
                    emancipator and upheld his arms when he struck the shackles from four millions
                    of human beings and gathered the chains that bound their limbs in his deft hands
                    and stepped from the highest round in the ladder that reached the pinnacle of
                    fame, into the portals of heaven, and laid those chains at the feet of his
                    creator, a fitting gift to a just God. He had helped relieve pain and furnished
                    aid to the weak, the mute, the blind, and the insane. In the cause of mankind,
                    the relief of the suffering, in the education of the youth, in provisions for
                    the aged, the battle of his life was fought. In a distant land the night of
                    death closed over his eventful life, gentle and loving friends administered to
                    him. If to love your fellow men more than yourself is good, then Dr. Evans was
                    good; if to be in advance of your time, to be a pioneer in the direction of
                    right is greatness then Dr. Evans was great; if to avow your principles and
                    discharge your duty in the presence of danger and death is heroic, then Dr.
                    Evans was a hero.
         
         
         
            Personal Politics In Indiana 1816-1840 (Concluded)
            By ADAM LEONARD
            
            STATE POLITICS, 1828 to 1840
            Only twice under the old constitution did the people of Indiana vote for the
                    President of the nation and the governor of the state in the same year. In the
                    presidential year of 1816 they elected a governor but the legislature chose the
                    presidential electors. The quadrennial presidential elections and the triennial
                    governorship elections threw the two together again in 1828 and also in 1840.
                    Naturally the national question became a greater factor in these years than in
                    any other in the election of the governor but even then its influence was not
                    nearly so great as in more recent times owing largely to the fact that the two
                    elections did not occur on the same date. The governorship election was held in
                    August and the presidential in November. In other years the national question
                    was scarcely felt at all in the governorship election.
            Governor Jennings had been elected for a second term; Governor Hendricks had been
                    sent to the 
                        United States
                     senate, and it was generally expected that Governor Ray would be a
                    candidate again in 1828. He announced himself as a candidate in April but made
                    no mention of party or of his position in national politics.1
                    
                        Milton
                     Stapp at the same time announced as a candidate for lieutenant
                    governor. He also made no mention of national politics. The 
                        Jackson
                     forces would not be satisfied with a neutral candidate. Even
                    earlier than this the Jacksonian press had informally brought forward Dr. Israel
                    T. Canby of 
                        Madison
                    , a man of well-known Jacksonian sentiments, as a candidate for
                    gdvernor.2 His candidacy had, however, not been seriously urged and when Ray
                    announced it was rumored that Ray's correspondence with 
                        Jackson
                    
                    
                  
                     1
                            Western Sun, April 26, 1828.
                  
                     2 Ibid, Feb. 2, 1828.
               
                     had converted him to the 
                        Jackson
                     cause. Counter rumors were circulated, and the 
                        Jackson
                     central committee to leave no doubt as to his position met at 
                        Salem
                     June 28,3 and adopted the preamble: 
                        Whereas it has been represented that Major Henry S. Handy has recently
                            received a communication from Governor Ray expressive of his sentiments
                            on the presidential election favorable to the election of Andrew 
                                Jackson
                             and it appearing that Governor Ray had denounced the party
                            (Democrats) opposed to the reelection of Mr. Adams as "A
                            Violent atrocious faction which every good man ought to unite in
                            suppressing."
                     This was followed by a resolution calling upon Major Handy to produce
                    Ray's letter to him. Major Handy explained that a report had reached
                    the central committee that 
                        Jackson
                    's letter to Ray had completely converted Ray to the cause
                    of 
                        Jackson
                    . The committee believing this, had appointed a committee to wait
                    upon the governor and find out the truth of the matter, and also whether he
                    would allow his name to be placed upon the 
                        Jackson
                     ticket as a candidate for governor. Major Handy being the chairman
                    of that committee had written to Governor Ray and the letter in question had
                    been addressed to Handy. Ray writing under date of May 15, 1828, said: 
                        I must admit that although I have constantly recognized a numerous corps
                            of my old political and personal friends in the 
                                Jackson
                             ranks, yet I was not looking for a concentration of the
                            whole force of that formidable and respectable party in my favor,
                            notwithstanding, I feel satisfied that my course better deserved the
                            confidence and friendship of the friends of the general than that of
                            either of those gentlemen whom you presume will be my competitors,
                            viz.—Moore, Thompson or Graham —wishing never to
                            subject myself to the charge of inconsistency in politics, I will give
                            you a brief history of my cause and feelings in politics and the
                            presidential question.4
                  
                    
            
            He declared that Clay had been his first choice and 
                        Jackson
                     his second but that he had determined to judge the Adams
                    administration by its acts, that these were not bad, therefore he had determined
                    to be neutral. He did not believe the charge of corruption against Clay or that 
                        Jackson
                     was opposed to the 
                  
                     3
                            Ibid, July 19, 1828, also the Indiana
                                Palladium, July 12, 1828—the Palladium also withdrew its support from Ray.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid, July 19, 1828.
               
                     tariff or internal improvements. He did not
                    think that a 
                        Jackson
                     administration would be different from the present. He concluded:
                        
                        I am in your hands; dispose of me and my name as you in your wisdom think
                            proper. I wish to be elected governor of the state on my merits. I shall
                            not become a partisan but shall have no objection to receiving the
                            united support of the Jacksonians. I shall not undo what they see fit to
                            do in state elections, and will admit the election to be a test of
                            strength. But must be permitted for the good of the cause to object to a
                            publication before the election of the letter of the committee to me or
                            my reply. By that course the cause will be weakened thousands in
                            numbers. If you wish me to succeed by a great majority, leave me as much
                            liberty as possible, allow latitude. It is enough for you to take up a
                            man who is not against you and support him without drawing from him
                            anything for publication to give offense to the opposite side, and he
                            who allows himself silently or tacitly to be supported in your name
                            stands committed by implication as strong as the Andes. You ought to
                            have confidence in the man you support and not place him in an attitude
                            that will weaken him.
                    
            
            Major Handy also submitted to the committee an extract from the 
                        Brookville
                     Repository (date not given) which gave an extract from a speech two
                    hours in length delivered by Ray in 
                        Brookville
                    . It said in part: 
                        Among the numerous subjects embraced in his excellency's
                            address, the presidential question occupied a prominent position. With
                            his course on this subject, under the existing circumustances, we could
                            not coincide nor do we believe that it met the wishes of the people
                            generally, as he practiced studied indecision or in other words refused
                            to give his opinions on the question of the candidates of the high
                            office of national executive, or to which, Mr. Adams or Mr. Jackson, he
                            would give his personal support; assigning as his reason that he wished
                            to avoid giving encouragement to either of the parties which now oppose
                            each other on that subject, by lending them his name to aid in keeping
                            the nation at that stage of high excitement which now agitates it. That
                            as he conceived the present contest from the manner in which it is
                            prosecuted directly calculated to destroy the liberties of a people and
                            prostrate the free institutions of the country, it was his duty to keep
                            aloof from both and employ his influence to assuage the storm; that
                            measures and not men constituted his rallying point, and that whoever
                            might be called to administer the government he was prepared to go with
                            and support them so far as they pursued a correct policy, or in other
                            words support of the American system.
                    
            
            
            The editor of the Repository did not agree with this attitude
                    and sought the governor after the speech and put a series of questions to him
                    from the Adams point of view. Ray in his answers declared: 1st. That the present
                    administration was constitutionally established; 2nd. He did hot believe the
                    charges of bargain sale and corruption prepared against Adams and 
                        Clay
                    ; 3rd. The opposition to the administration is an outrageous and
                    violent faction; 4th. It is the duty of every good man from the governor of the
                    state downward to oppose such a faction.
            Ray was a man who was not able to seize the "tide at its flood"
                    or rather he belonged to the type of politicians who, "having eyes see
                    not." Mere chance had made it possible for him to be governor. He had
                    never been forced to risk a stand on an issue and he did not care to do so now.
                    Moreover he could not see that the personality of political personages was being
                    merged into party spirit. This induced him to stand alone and play a game of
                    duplicity in bidding for the votes of both factions. In doing so he lost the
                    support of partisans on both sides. The report of Major Handy to the convention
                    determined the action of the Jacksonians, and one week later, July 5, 1828,
                    Israel T. Canby announced himself as a 
                        Jackson
                    -ian candidate for governor. In his formal announcement Canby
                    declared: 
                        The election of Adams violated that fundamental principles of the
                            republican form of government—that the
                                representative is bound by the wishes of his constituents however
                                known to him. The contest is therefore no longer personal but
                            this important principle is involved-shall, the people or their
                            representatives who disregard the will of the people make the
                                president.5
                  
                    
            
            The administration forces had already brought out Harbin H. Moore of Corydon as
                    their candidate for governor. The contest from now on was a three cornered
                    struggle between the administration forces supporting Moore, the 
                        Jackson
                     forces supporting Canby, and Ray as an independent candidate. Ray
                    had the attacks of the other two factions aimed at him and was kept busy warding
                    off their thrusts. On July 
                  
                     5
                            Western Sun, July 19, 1828.
               
                     9th, writing from 
                        Bloomington
                     he said he understood it was reported that he had written letters
                    to friends of Adams saying he would vote for him and to friends of 
                        Jackson
                     saying he would vote for him and that these letters have been or
                    are to be published.6 He declared that if such letters made
                    their appearance they were base forgeries. In regard to the editorial in the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Repository he said: 
                        This I never did consent to. This publication grossly misrepresents me. I
                            deny it as it appears in the newspapers. All editors in the state will
                            please insert this in their papers.
                    
            
            He also promised to explain the circumstsnces and contents of Handy's
                    letter from 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Writing from 
                        Indianapolis
                     under date of July 14, 1828, he tried to meet the charges of the 
                        Jackson
                     central committee. He said: 
                        Learning in the course of a few days past that the state is filled with
                            lies and misrepresentations intended and calculated to destroy my
                            election and myself forever, I feel it is a duty I owe to my political
                            friends, to the state of Indiana and myself to step forth and meet the
                            flood of calumny which my base political enemies are thundering in the
                            ears of the people. All is kept quiet as the grave until a few days
                            before the election, and then all at once a concerted attack is made on
                            me from every quarter of the state, when it is impossible for me to go
                            everywhere to explain.7
                  
                    
            
            On the presidential question he said: 
                        I was elected governor of Indiana when there was no party question and
                            when I saw an attempt being made to divide the state into two parties, I
                            determined I would not become the executive of one party to the
                            exclusion of the other. Being elected by both parties I must continue
                            the executive of both as long as my term lasts. Two great men have come
                            in contact and we must choose between them. If I cannot be elected
                            because I will not come out and abuse one or the other of these men I
                            must fail.
                    
            
            He declared that he had always written uniformly well of both candidates and
                    anything to the contrary was a base forgery. He denied having ever written
                    letters to any one declaring that he would vote for either 
                        Jackson
                     or Adams. He declared that Thomas H. Blake, candidate for congress
                    in the 
                  
                     6
                            Ibid, July 26, 1828.
                  
                     7 Indiana Palladium, July 26, 1828.
               
                     First district, had been with him in ten
                    counties and would tell the world that his cause had been uniform and that he
                    had always been in favor of the present administration and had tried to show the
                    people that they should be. He said that no officer to be elected next August
                    should have anything to do with the presidential election; that there was no
                    reason for making a question out of it; and that a man should be elected
                    governor of the state upon his own merits and not upon popularity of another
                    man.
            In speaking of the immediate charges he said he was opposed at the last election
                    by certain lawyers and political men, generally Adams men, and that these men
                    declared opposition to him as soon as he was sworn into office. These men were
                    again at the head of the administration party of the state, and last winter they
                    had deliberately planned to ruin him. These administration men, at the time the
                    two conventions met in January, had conferred with the Jacksonians and requested
                    them to draw the line and bring out a candidate for governor, and then assured
                    them that they would do the same thing and in that way they could have beat him
                    on mutual ground. If they found they could not leave him out in that way that
                    they would join with the Jacksonians and defeat him in that manner and if he
                    became the friend of Adams they would bring out another candidate. He met the
                    Handy letter by showing that the question was put to him by 
                        Jackson
                     men and that he could not refuse their support while at the same
                    time it was necessary that he maintain his independent position on the national
                    question. He branded the charges in the 
                        Brookville
                     Repositom as absolutely false. The governor also tried by
                    explanation to lessen the force of the expressions "outrageous and
                    violent faction."8 Both Editor Jocelyn of the
                    Repository and Governor Ray procured affidavits to prove their side of the
                    question. The editor asserted that the words were used and Ray, that they were
                        not.9
            
            Public speaking was more conspicuous in this campaign than in any previous one.
                    But speaking, however, was done primarily by the candidates themselves. Ray
                    mentions that 
                  
                     8 Indiana Palladium, July 16,
                            1828.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid, July 16, 1828.
               
                     Thomas H. Blake had been with him in ten
                    counties. On June 1, we have notice that he had been in 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     on the previous Tuesday,10 on July 4, Ray and
                    Stapp visited 
                        Vincennes
                    . Ray, at a country dinner, made a speech two hours in length.
                    Opinions of him were so varied that the 
                        Jackson
                     paper refused to give its opinion.11 Judge John
                    Test, candidate for congress in the Third district, was in 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     on July 4, and H. H. Moore on the Thursday previous. The open
                    letters by the candidates scarcely appeared in this campaign. The letter of Ray
                    in answer to the charges brought out by the 
                        Jackson
                     central committee was the only one of note issued by the candidates
                    for governor except the ones giving a formal announcement of their candidacy.
                    Letters signed by fictitious names had also almost disappeared. There was only
                    one of these worthy of note dealing with local affairs- that of "John
                    Van Blaricum" originally published in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Gazette and copied by the press of the state.12 It was an announcement as a candidate for governor given in bombastic
                    language, after the style of Ray and was intended to make Ray appear ridiculous.
            Since the candidate depended upon personal contact with the voters to make his
                    impression upon them, Ray had the decided advantage over both Moore and Canby.
                    He had been before the state for three years as its governor and had been about
                    as successful as his predecessors. Also he had announced his candidacy early and
                    was "on the stump" before either Moore or Canby became
                        candidates.13 Then the partisan question was not raised
                    until so late in the campaign that it did not have time to gather momentum
                    sufficient to turn the election. Ray drew his strength in proportionate numbers
                    from each of the two party candidates and was elected by a vote of 15,141 to
                    12,315 for Canby and 10,904 for Moore.14 Although Ray had
                    won a personal victory in defiance of both parties it was due to the fact that
                    state elections had never before centered about the national question, and
                    because the 
                  
                     10
                            Ibid, June 7, 1828.
                  
                     11
                            Western Sun, July 12, 1828.
                  
                     12
                            Indiana Palladium, July 6, 1828.
                  
                     13 Ibid, May 24, 1828.
                  
                     14
                            House Journal 1828-29-30 and appendix A.
               
                     party candidates could not overcome the
                    handicap of Ray's early lead in so short a time. Ray, however, was
                    Indiana's last governor who professed to be independent of national
                    politics. The national question did not enter the contest for lieutenant
                    governor and 
                        Milton
                     Stapp was elected over Abel C. Pepper by the close vote of 17,395
                    to 17,262.15
            
            The presidential question entered strongly into the congressional elections. The
                    struggle was most bitter in the First district. It began as early as January,
                    when the Western Sun urged Samuel Judah to become a
                        candidate.16 It said in an editorial that it was the
                    will of the voters and of a majority of the delegates to the 
                        Jackson
                     convention that he be their candidate. By March the sentiment of
                    the leaders was fairly well known and Judah realized that he could not win over
                    Blake, who was then serving his first term in office. He accordingly withdrew
                    from the race in favor of Ratliff 
                        Boone
                    .17 On the date of his withdrawal he addressed a
                    letter to the 
                        Knox county
                     vigilance committee in which he said: 
                        It is undoubtedly the duty of the friends of the election of Andrew 
                                Jackson
                             to endeavor to elect as their representative in congress
                            men who will support all the rightful measures of his administration,
                            when success shall have crowned our labors by his elevation to the
                            presidency. To succeed in a party contest it is necessary to bring
                            forward as a candidate that man who will unite the most of the party
                            strength.
                    
            
            Two weeks later Ratliff Boone and Thomas Blake both formally announced themselves
                    as candidates for congress.18 Although their political
                    preferences were well known, neither of them mentioned politics in his
                    announcement. At the same time Samuel Judah announced himself as a candidate for
                    the state legislature from 
                        Knox county
                    . The struggle between Boone and Blake centered mainly about the
                    presidential question. It, however, had its local aspects. The friends of Blake
                    circulated the report that Boone while a member of congress had voted against
                    the Wabash canal bill. They made considerable political capital of the story,
                    but Boone soon silenced 
                  
                     15 Iabid, 1.
                  
                     16 January 26, 1828.
                  
                     17
                            Western Sum, March 29, 1828.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid, April 12, 1828.
               
                     them by securing statements from Jennings
                    and Hendricks, who were in congress at the same time, stating positively that he
                    had voted for the bill.19 Boone also charged that he was
                    unfairly beaten by Blake in the last election. Blake challenged him to prove it,
                    and he published a statement of facts in an attempt to do SO.20 The quarrel continued, however, throughout the campaign.
            While there was a distinct alignment on the party issues neither party declared
                    himself as a party candidate. The vote, however, was rather closely drawn on
                    party lines. Boone was elected over Blake by a majority of 91.21 The Western Sun
                    said of the election: 
                        The presidential question operated no doubt upon this election. The
                            friends of this administration as far as my acquaintance extends,
                            presented an undivided phalanx in favor of Mr. Blake. The same cannot be
                            said in favor of the friends of 
                                Jackson
                             and it will not be denied that hundreds of them voted for
                            Mr. Blake.22
                  
                    
            
            In the Second district the party lines were not so closely drawn. Mr. Jennings
                    again became a candidate. He had voted for 
                        Jackson
                     in the election in congress, but his sympathies for the
                    administration were well known. The 
                        Jackson
                     forces supported John H. Thompson, but the popularity of Jennings
                    was too much for them to overcome and Jennings was easily elected by a vote of
                    6,932 to 2,521.23
            
            In the Third district O. H. Smith announced himself as a candidate for reelection
                    early in the year (April 26).24 His announcement was
                    followed by that of Judge John Test on May 13,25 and that of Jonathan McCarty on
                    May 17.26 Smith and Test were both administration men while
                    McCarty was a 
                        Jackson
                     man. While Smith was in the capital attending the session of
                    congress Test was busy rallying his supporters of the two previous campaigns
                    while McCarty was rousing up 
                  
                     19
                            Ibid, June 21. 1828.
                  
                     20 Ibid, ——.
                  
                     21 Niles' Register,
                            October 11, 1828,—Boone received 7,345 votes to 7,243 for
                            Blake.
                  
                     22 August 23, 1828.
                  
                     23 Niles' Register,
                            October 11, 1828.
                  
                     24 Indiana Palludium, April 26, 1828.
                  
                     25 Ibid, May 3, 1828.
                  
                     26 Ibid, May 17, 1828.
               
                     the Jackon men to his own support. When
                    Smith returned and became aware of the situation he realized that he could not
                    be elected and in June he withdrew from the race. He gave as his reason that
                    with three candidates in the field the one who should be elected would be a
                    minority candidate. And if the minority should send a delegate to congress it
                    would be contrary to the American principle of majority rule. He also left those
                    who had been "circulating falsehoods" against him to their own
                    reflections.27 The campaign for election was made almost entirely along party
                    lines, although the personal popularity of Judge Test no doubt affected the
                    result, and Test was elected over McCarty by a vote of 6,416 to 4,985.28
            
            We know but little about the details of this election to the state legislature.
                    The retiring legislature had been largely composed of administration
                    sympathizers. The senate contained 17 administration men and four 
                        Jackson
                     men, while the house contained forty administration men, thirteen 
                        Jackson
                     men and four neutrals.29 There seems to have
                    been a very strong tendency by both parties to avoid the national questions in
                    this election. In 
                        Manchester
                     township in 
                        Dearborn county
                     a convention to select delegates to a convention of four townships
                    passed a series of resolutions dealing with local conditions. The fourth
                    resolution declared: 
                        We will not be influenced by the presidential question in selecting our
                            state representatives.30
                  
                    
            
            Even Samuel Judah, who was perhaps the most radical 
                        Jackson
                     man that served in the house of representatives in this period, did
                    not mention national politics in his announcement as a candidate.31 There were three candidates opposed to him and all of them confined
                    their public utterances to local issues and personalities although Judah
                    digressed far enough once to give his opinion on the tariff.32 When the legislature met Judah and Isaac Howk, an administration man
                    from 
                  
                     27 Ibid, June 21, 1828.
                  
                     28
                            Niles' Register, Oct. 11, 1828.
                  
                     29 Ibid, Jan. 19, 1828.
                  
                     30
                            Indiana Palladium, March 10, 1828.
                  
                     31 Western Sun, April 12, 1828.
                  
                     32 Ibid, Aug. 2, 1828.
               
                     Clark county, were the candidates for
                    speaker. Mr. Howk was chosen.33 Party lines were now drawn
                    never to be obliterated.
            No one was less able to see and take the advantage of the rise of party spirit
                    than the governor, James B. Ray, and his action hastened to drive local politics
                    into national alignment. As soon as the elections were over he published an open
                    letter or "statement of facts" in which he rehearsed the
                    letter in reply to the charge of the 
                        Jackson
                     central committee and then added: 
                        It was also stated by me that if I were the successful candidate, after
                            the election was over, should either party claim me as having been
                            elected by them exclusively a statement of facts should be made. An
                            extensive tour through the state and an intimate acquaintance with the
                            policies of the people enable me to say that with great certainty though
                            elected by a majority of 2,600 votes over my 
                                Jackson
                             competitor, Dr. Canby, and by between 4,000 and 5,000 over
                            my administrative competitor, H. H. Moore, I feel free to assert that I
                            was not elected by the friends of either side in a party controversy.
                            The votes I received were for governor of the state and not to effect
                            any other purpose.
                    
            
            In his inaugural address he again touched on the subject. He said: 
                        I entered into the late canvass at a crisis fraught with as much danger
                            to candidates for office, as this country ever witnessed; at a time when
                            the most fearful public excitement that ever agitated the country had
                            risen to its acme; at a time when the rights of friends and
                            consanquinity were swallowed up in the general fermentation of the day;
                            at a time when the populace were laboring under the most splendid
                            artificial delusion and madness that ever bewitched an intelligent
                            society; at a time when the candidate appeared to possess no other merit
                            or demerit than that he was the friend or opposer of one or the other of
                            the two brightest stars in our galaxy of heroes and statesmen; and at a
                            time when the voice of merit was literally stifled by the spirit of the
                                party.35
                  
                    
            
            In his first message to the legislature he again deplored the existing tendency
                    in politics, in the statement that: 
                        The treatment which candidates for office and public servants too
                            frequently receive, from the highest to the lowest-the practice of
                            saying 
                        
                           33 Ibid, Dec. 20, 1828.
                        
                           34 Niles' Register, Nov. 1, 1828.
                        
                           35 Indiana Palladium, Jan. 10,
                                1829.
                     
                             all manner of false and evil things
                            about them—of slandering them without mercy—of
                            attempting to bring them into disrepute—to destroy their
                            usefulness—of questioning their motives-of misrepresenting
                            their acts, private and official—deserve the unqualified
                            animadversion of every friend to good government in the
                            country—of every good friend to character—of the
                            lover of justice, the lover of liberty and mind. Such wanton
                            licentiousness must, in the process of time, induce talent, sensitive
                            and modest worth to leave those public stations in the government, where
                            they might honor and bless their country and themselves, to be filled by
                            the ambitious demagogue, the designing partisan, and sometimes by the
                            detractor of reputation himself. It is true that the public servant is
                            the property of the people as far as it respects the free investigation
                            of his conduct-is at all times subject to their legal will and sound
                            discretion; but it can never be admitted that because he assumes the
                            character of a servant, any of his rights can be invaded with impunity,
                            his reputation plundered, his feelings lacerated without a palpable
                            violation of the obligation that exists between him and his
                                constituents.36
                  
                    
            
            If we could remove from Governor Ray the extenuating circumstances and personal
                    pique we would see in him no doubt a valiant type of that public servant who
                    places service above mere puritanism, but the forces on both sides were pitted
                    against him. The spirit of partisanship was running rampant and could not be
                    checked until it embraced the entire political system. This spirit, however, wm
                    usually emphasized in the general and was concealed as much as possible in the
                    individual cases. As an example the Western Sun speaking in general terms, said:
                        
                        A continuation of the same demarkation of political parties which has
                            existed ever since the establishment of our national government, seems
                            upon the whole, the safest course for the preservation of peace, and the
                            principle of union.37
                  
                    
            
            And the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Enquirer made an alignment of parties on the same basis as the
                    old Federalism and republicanism.38 In the same county, the
                    same paper printed the announcement of George Calhoun,39
                    John McClure,40 John C. Riley,41 and
                        
                  
                     36 Niles' Register,
                            Jan. 21, 1829.
                  
                     37 April 4, 1829.
                  
                     38 Western Bun, August 22, 1825.
                  
                     39 May 9, 1829.
                  
                     40 April 11, 1829.
                  
                     41 April 26, 1829.
               
                     General W. Johnson,42
                    as candidates for the legislature without any mention of party politics. Later
                    in the campaign it declared in an open letter by "Observer":
                        
                        As the first Monday in August approaches, I perceive in almost all the
                            public journals, a list of names of candidates for office rapidly
                            increasing in number and as the political sentiments of men are public
                            property, it is but right that the people should demand of each
                            candidate for office, and particularly the candidates for the
                            legislature, an unvarnished declaration of his sentiments in relation to
                            the present administration of the general government, and his views in
                            relation to the next president. That two great political parties do now
                            exist in the 
                                United States
                            , whose feelings and sentiments are widely discordant, is
                            too self evident to admit contradiction, is it not therefore in the
                            nature of things to expect any individual whatever who may become a
                            candidate for any important situation to aid in the support of both
                                parties?43
                  
                    
            
            There is, however, no sign of any legislative candidate declaring himself either
                    as a 
                        Jackson
                     or anti-
                        Jackson
                     man in this campaign. No candidates for minor office ever had done
                    such a thing for many years, yet at the same time the partisan complication of
                    the legislature became more and more marked each year. In this year the house of
                    representatives became Jacksonian, and elected Ross Smiley, an ardent 
                        Jackson
                     man, as its speaker.44
            
            Notwithstanding Governor Ray's independent position and the tendency of
                    his legislature to draw party lines, he did not come into conflict with that
                    body until late in the session of the legislature of 1829-30. If we may believe
                    the Indiana Journal's account of the controversy,45 a short time before the session of the General Assembly
                    closed, a bill was passed providing for the opening of a part of the Michigan
                    Road. The bill originated in the senate and passed that body with the name of a
                    very respectable gentleman as commissioner. In the house of representatives, the
                    name of that gentleman was stricken out and that of Noah Noble was inserted in
                    lieu of it. This was not done out of any disrespect for the gentleman originally
                    named, but on account of a preference for General 
                  
                     42 June 6. 1829.
                  
                     43 June 13, 1829.
                  
                     44
                            Western Sun, Dec. 26, 1829.
                  
                     45 Copied in Niles' Register, March 27,
                            1830.
               
                     Noble, founded on an intimate acquaintance
                    with him and a knowledge of his qualifications and also on account of his local
                    situation which was thought to be particularly favorable for such an
                    appointment. While the bill was pending in the house of representatives the
                    governor was frequently in the lobby, electioneering against the insertion of
                    Mr. Noble's name, declaring if it should be continued he would not sign
                    it. The house disregarding these threats, passed the bill with Mr.
                    Noble's name as commissioner. After it was reported to the senate with
                    its amendment, the governor continued to exert his influence with the senators
                    to have Mr. Noble's name expunged, using coarse epithets in reference
                    to him and declaring, as he had before done, that he would not approve the law
                    if the name were retained. The bill, however, passed both houses and was sent to
                    the governor for his signature. After keeping the bill for two or three days he
                    signed it and wrote at the bottom of the same page: 
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            , Jan. 29, 1830
                        There are parts of this bill which my mind cannot sanction. The
                            commissioner named in it I believe to be unworthy. If it had come into
                            my hands at an earlier period of the session, it should have become a
                            law if at all without my signature. But finding that the legislature is
                            ready to adjourn without permitting it to remain in my hands five days I
                            cannot consent to the sacrifice of money it must occasion to retain it.
                            Therefore I must yield to the necessity of settling the Michigan Road
                            question so necessary to the public and interest, even at the sacrifice
                            of my own opinion.
                        JAMES B. RAY.
                    
            
            When the senate became aware of the remark it immediately passed the following
                    resolution: 
                        
                     Resolved, that in the opinion of the senate the power
                            of the executive over bills which pass both branches of the General
                            Assembly does not extend to scribbling individual abuse upon them and
                            that the indulgence of such propensity in the case of the bill for the
                            opening of the Michigan Road is not only an uncourteous reflection upon
                            the discrimination of the legislature but a manifestation of authority
                            unauthorized by the constitution or official propriety.
                    
            
            This resolution passed by a vote of 17 to 5.
            Ray and his senate were never again on friendly terms and neither ever allowed an
                    opportunity to pass without attacking the other. The legislature passed a
                    resolution at this session  requiring the
                    governor to correspond with the proper authorities and ascertain as nearly as
                    possible when and how the land donated by treaty and act of congress to the
                    state of Indiana to open a road (
                        Michigan
                    ) were to be surveyed and whether they were to be surveyed by the
                    state of Indiana or the general government.45 Ray apparently
                    wrote to Mr. Eaton, secretary of war under whose department public lands were at
                    that time managed but received no answer. The legislators began to murmur of
                    neglect of duty on the part of Ray. He at once made an effort to secure evidence
                    that he had done his duty. The new legislature which had not changed materially
                    either in person or political complection met on the 6th of December, 1830. Two
                    days later Ray placed before the senate all his correspondence on the
                        subject.46 In doing so he complained that: 
                        Some uncharitable persons in the public prints and elsewhere have
                            insinuated that I have failed to do my duty with regard to this road
                            grant, under the law of last year, out of hostility to the road or for
                            other causes. With about the same propriety and without evidence they
                            may charge me with the murder of my own child.
                    
            
            The next day (December 9) he sent another letter to the senate with the comment:
                        
                        Can it still be said I have neglected this duty? Is the evidence I now
                            submit sufficient to acquit me of censure?
                    
            
            Ray had promised the General Assembly early in his administration that he would
                    codify all the laws that had been passed since 1824, and present them to the
                    legislature before his term of office expired. On December 10, 1830, the senate
                    passed a resolution, accompanied by a preamble giving a statement of facts,
                    inquiring what progress he had made in collecting 'the laws.47 Ray again showed his haughty and over-bearing disposition
                    by curtly replying: 1. That he had procured a book and formed it in one hundred
                    articles of law. 2. He would make no promises for the future. 3. This was his
                    own undertaking and would not be placed in hands that 
                  
                     45
                            Senate Journal, 1830, p. 38.
                  
                     46 Ibid, pages 37 to 53.
                  
                     47 Senate Journal, 1830, p. 69.
               
                     would abuse it. 4. A work condemned in
                    advance is not likely to receive a fair trial.48 The quarrel
                    again broke out when on January 8, 1831, the senate passed a resolution
                    requesting the committee on revision49
                    
                        to address a respectful letter to his excellency the governor soliciting
                            him to return Livingston's 
                                    Louisiana
                                
                      Code to the library for the use of the legislature
                            during the present session of the General Assembly.
                    
            
            On the 10th Ray replied: 
                        I have complied with the request of this resolution but not because I
                            recognize in the senate the right to make such a call. The executive of
                            this state considers himself bound by its laws and responsible for
                            anything he does to the people of the state or their representatives;
                            but not subject to the direction of a senate.50
                  
                    
            
            Another cause for controversy was the appointment of judges of the supreme court.
                    The seven years' term of the judges expired January 28, 1830. On
                    January 27, the senate by resolution offered by Dennis Pennington, a former
                    Adams man, requested the governor to nominate to the senate James Scott, Jesse
                    S. Holman and Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    .51 The governor allowed the matter to rest until January 12, 1831,
                    when he sent to the senate the nominations of Isaac 
                        Blackford
                    , John T. McKinney, and Stephen C. Stephens as judges.52
            
            His nominations were accompanied by a letter in which he declared: 
                        The executive does not, however, acknowledge the right of the senate to
                            interfere directly or indirectly with the nominating power, or as to the
                            time of their presentation for receptance or rejection.
                    
            
            The senate immediately confirmed the nomination of Blackford but rejected that of
                    Stephens and McKinney.53 On January 25, the senate justified
                    by stand by a long report and a set of resolutions by a special committee.54
            
            
               
                  48
                        Senate Journal, 1830, p. 63.
               
                  49
                        Ibid, p. 230.
               
                  50 Ibid, p. 249.
               
                  51
                        Senate Journal 1830, p. 169.
               
                  52 Ibid, p. 255.
               
                  53
                        Senate Journal 1830, p. 269-260-261.
               
                  54 Ibid, P. 347-355.
            
            
            On January 28, the governor nominated Staphens and McKinney and the nominations
                    were confirmed by a vote of 11 to 10.55 The entire affair
                    was complicated by the fact that Scott, Holman and Blackford were the judges
                    whose terms were expiring, while Stephens and McKinney were members of the
                    senate.
            The three years' struggle between Ray and the legislature not only ended
                    the career of personal politics as applied to the higher state officials but it
                    ruined Ray both politically and professionally. When he retired from the
                    governor's office he resumed the practice of law but received very
                    little business. "He seemed to be run down at the heel" and
                    although he was at the prime of life the public appeared to think him
                    superannuated, as having passed his day of usefulness. In 1835 he became a
                    candidate for clerk of 
                        Marion county
                     and for a time appeared to make a lively canvass but before the
                    election came off he gave up the conflict. He did not withdraw but he had no
                    tickets printed and but few votes were cast for him. In 1837 he ran for congress
                    in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     district against William Herrod but received only 5,883 votes to
                    9,635 for his opponent. This ended his public career.56
            
            By the time for the campaign for the election of governor in 1831, the party
                    spirit had developed to such an extent that the candidate's worth was
                    judged by his attitude toward the national question. In the campaign there was a
                    vigorous activity throughout the party organization and an alignment of parties
                    back of candidates but no candidate made the race on the fundamental principle
                    of being a party man. On December 18, 1830, the Jacksonian members of the state
                    legislature met at the governor's house57 and
                    passed a series of resolutions to the effect that all friends of Republicanism
                    had confidence in 
                        Jackson
                     and his administration. (2) They had the utmost confidence in him
                    and his administration. (3) In the hands of an honest man the interests of all
                    men are safe. (4) Accountability of public officials, payment of the public
                    debt, and the equalization of the burdens of all classes of 
                  
                     55 Ibid, P. 394-396.
                  
                     56 Woolen, Wm. W., Biographioal and
                                Historical Sketches of Indiana, 62.
                  
                     57
                            Western Sun, Jan. 22, 1831.
               
                     people are objects of primary importance.
                    (5) They indorsed the president as a candidate for the next election. (6) They
                    provided for the distribution of 5,000 copies of the President's
                    message. They also appointed a standing central committee of twenty persons and
                    instructed them to publish an address to the people of the state. This committee
                    met immediately and provided for the appointment of county committees of five,
                    also vigilance committees in every township in the state.
            The anti-
                        Jackson
                     forces, however, had their candidates in the field before the 
                        Jackson
                     forces did. Early in February General Noah Noble announced himself
                    as a candidate for governor and David Wallace announced for lieutenant governor.
                    Noble was one of the best known men in the state, he had been removed from the
                    office of collector of public money in 
                        Indianapolis
                     by 
                        Jackson
                    , and had been the object of special attack by Governor Ray in the
                    Michigan Road incident. He was well calculated to win support from both the anti-
                        Jackson
                     and the anti-Ray factions in the state. He is described by O. H.
                    Smith as follows: 
                        His person was tall and slim, his constitution delicate, his smile
                            winning, his voice feeble, the squeeze of the hand irresistible. He
                            spoke plainly and well but made no pretense to eloquence.58
                  
                    
            
            Wallace was a promising young lawyer, a graduate of West Point, and for the last
                    three sessions had been a member of the state legislature. These men made no
                    mention of party in their announcements, but their principles were too
                    well-known to need any formal declaration. In May James G. Read of 
                        Daviess county
                     announced himself as candidate for governor.59
                    He did not refer to the national question in any manner. Read was by no means so
                    well known as Noble, but although he did not at first mention his party
                    preference it was well known that he was the candidate of the 
                        Jackson
                     forces. Personally, as a speaker he was loud, impressive,
                    impulsive, at times eloquent. He was always fortified with facts and brought
                    them to bear with all his powers, upon his audience, In person he was below the
                    common height, but strongly 
                  
                     58 Smith, O. H., Early Indiana Trials
                                and Sketches, 87.
                  
                     59
                            Weatern Sun, May 14, 1828.
               
                     formed, head large, hair and eyes coal
                    black, complexion dark, features good.60 On June 4 Ross
                    Smiley was formally announced as a candidate for lieutenant governor, with the
                    comment: 
                        Mr. Smiley was one of the electors for President and Vice-president at
                            the last presidential election, and voted for Andrew 
                                Jackson
                            .61
                  
                    
            
            Mr. Smiley was better known both personally and politically than was Mr. Read. 
                        Milton
                     Stapp, the lieutenant governor, became an independent candidate for
                    governor, and James Gregory, state senator from 
                        Shelby county
                    , was an independent candidate for lieutenant governor.
            On May 10, 1831, Read issued from 
                        Washington
                    , Indiana, a letter to the "Freemen of Indiana"
                    stating his principles.62 He declared that the general
                    policy of the existing administration was decidedly approved by him. He
                    concurred in the opinion expressed in the late message of the president on the
                    tariff and internal improvements. He opposed the disorganizing doctrines of
                    southern nullifiers, and those of northern consolidationists. He recognized the
                    people as the source of all sovereign power. He touched only in very general
                    terms the question of state issues. In connection with his deploring the action
                    of the "southern nullifiers and northern consolidationists" it
                    is worth while to note that Governor Ray in his annual message to the
                    legislature in 1830 said:63
                    
                        I have received and shall lay before you resolutions of the states of
                                    
                        Pennsylvania,
                                    Delaware
                     ,
                            and Louisiana declaring that the tariff of 1828 accords with the
                            constitution of the 
                                United States
                             and is not injurious to the southern states. Corresponding
                            resolves are expected of you.
                    
            
            These people evidently did not question the constitutionality of 
                        South Carolina
                    's ad, but rather condemned the policy of it.
            On May 10, Noble issued a letter, "To the people of
                        Indiana."64 He sketched his life in Indiana;
                    said that it was his 
                  
                     60 Smith, O. H., Earlu Indiana Trials and
                            Sketches, 343.
                  
                     61
                            Western Sun, June 4, 1831.
                  
                     62
                            Western Sun, June 4, 1828, also The Indiana
                            Republican, June 16, 1831.
                  
                     63
                            Senate Journal, 1830, p. 14.
                  
                     64
                            Western Sun, June 4, 1831; also The
                                Indiana Republican, June 16, 1831.
               
                     attachment to the civil institutions of our
                    common country, his devotion to the interests of Indiana, the character in
                    public and private life that he had built among them, and on the opinion his
                    fellow citizens might entertain for his qualifications that he rested his
                    pretensions, looking to the people all, and not to party discipline. He declared
                    that the tariff was too vital to the interests of the state for him to oppose
                    it. He pronounced the militia system a failure that should be replaced by some
                    more efficient system. He pledged himself never to be a candidate for any higher
                    office, and asked the people not to judge him until he had visited every county
                    and given them a chance to see and hear him.
            Each of the candidates stumped the state, visiting every county. This practice
                    which was just coming into vogue in 1826, was very nearly universal by 1831. In
                    their campaign the candidates were not only expected to make speeches setting
                    forth their positions upon the question at issue but they were expected to
                    refute all charges that might be brought against them and answer any questions
                    that should be asked. In 
                        Knox county
                     Wilson Lagow, a candidate for a local office (in 1830) gave notice
                    to the voters that: 
                        I will meet the voters of Palmyra township at Johnathon
                            Hombick's on the 19; on the 22, the voters of Harrison township
                            at the place of holding their election; on the 23, the voters of Johnson
                            township at the place of holding their election; on the 24, the voters
                            of Decker township at the place of holding their election; and on
                            Saturday before the election at the courthouse in 
                                Vincennes
                            , at which time and place I will be fully prepared to refute
                            the calumnies heaped upon me by my opponent and show to the people that
                            I have been vilely traduced and grossly slandered. At 
                                Vincennes
                             I will have all the evidence necessary to a full and
                            complete investigation.65
                  
                    
            
            What he declared he would do here seems to be the things that were expected of
                    all candidates.
            The candidates themselves perhaps did not draw the political line so closely as
                    did the press. The Indiana Palladium early in May made a
                    strong plea for party alignment when it said: 
                  
                     65
                            Western Sun, July 10, 1830.
               
                    
                    
                        In the first place they try to make it impossible for any man to come out
                            on the question as they call it. What do they do next? Whenever a 
                                Jackson
                             man is a candidate for any office they immediately raise
                            the cry that he has "come out on the question," and
                            how often they have defeated the election of known and tried
                            Republicans? * * * Do you know a Clay
                            man in all your acquaintance who ever voted for a 
                                Jackson
                             man for the legislature? In the eyes of the Clay man the 
                                Jackson
                             man never has merit. They invariably find merit on the Clay
                            side. * * * I ask this sincerely, do 
                                Jackson
                             men support the administration when they elect men who
                            support different measures?66
                  
                    
            
            The 
                        Madison
                    
                    Herald of June 1, made the same complaints when it said:
                        
                        What is it that prompts the Clay party in this state to oppose every
                            friend of General 
                                Jackson
                             who aspires to office? What is it that induces them to cry
                            question, question, the moment a 
                                Jackson
                             man appears in the field? They will tell you they are
                            opposed to the principles and measures of his administration and they
                            want to put them down. That they cannot conscientiously support a man
                            who favors the policy of the president. Avowing this they have the
                            effrontery to ask the 
                                Jackson
                             men to support them.67
                  
                    
            
            While the politician, the orator, the partisan press have reached the stage of
                    such acute party alignment that it was practically impossible for a non-partisan
                    candidate to be elected, the party lines were not yet so closely drawn around
                    the bulk of citizens that the national question should determine the state
                    issue. There was no doubt but what the state was safely Jacksonian upon the
                    national question but on the state issue the prestige of the name of 
                        Jackson
                     could not overcome the personal popularity of Mr. Noble and he was
                    elected by a vote of 17,959 to 15,168 for Read and only 4,424 for Stapp, the
                    independent candidate.68 Noble's running mate,
                    David Wallace, was elected lieutenant governor by a vote of 17,101 to 12,858 for
                    Smiley, the Jacksonian candidate, and 5,346 for Gregory, the independent.
            The party line was less closely drawn in the legislative election than in the
                    gubernatorial. The most notable feature was the tendency of the party toward
                    bringing out local 
                  
                     66
                            Western Sun, May 28, 1831.
                  
                     67 Ibid, June 11, 1831.
                  
                     68
                            House Journal, 1831, p. 29.
               
                     tickets. The Jacksonians in 
                        Dearborn county
                     met at Law-renceburg March 30, 1831, and drew up a series of ten
                        resolutions.69 The first nine of these endorsed the
                    administration of 
                        Jackson
                     while the tenth provided a committee of three from each township in
                    the county to meet on the fourth Saturday in April to arrange a county ticket
                    for the party. This is one of the first instances of the kind found in the
                    state. The party preference of all candidates was well known but the voters were
                    just as little inclined to vote the party ticket as they were in the case of the
                    governor. Three weeks after the election the Western Sun, while not able to give
                    the result, predicted an increase in the 
                        Jackson
                     strength in the state legislature, and comments that 
                        It is a remarkable fact that with a large majority of the state in favor
                            of 
                                Jackson
                             there has at all times been a majority of Clay and Adams
                            men in the legislature.70
                  
                    
            
            This election was no exception. In the previous legislature the anti-
                        Jackson
                     forces claimed an actual majority of twenty71
                    while in the election of 
                        United States
                     senator William Hendricks, a Clay man, who was just completing a
                    term of service, was elected over Ratliff Bome, the Jacksonian candidate, by a
                    vote of 44 to 26 with twelve votes distributed between John Law and Charles
                    Dewey, both Clay men.72 Before the returns from the election
                    were all in the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    
                    Palladium, a radical Jacksonian paper, conceded that 39 Clay
                    men were elected to the house and seven to the senate, while 30 
                        Jackson
                     men were elected to the house and six to the senate,73 while the Indiana Clarion, a Clay paper, claimed a majority of two
                    to one for the anti-administration forces in the senate.74 This legislature also
                    had Q elect a 
                        United States
                     senator. Senator James Noble died in February, 1831. Governor Ray
                    appointed Robert Hanna to serve until the General Assembly should meet. The
                    Assembly, however, passed by the appointee and 
                  
                     69 Western Sun, April 16, 1831.
                  
                     70 Ibid, August 20, 1831.
                  
                     71 Niles' Register, December 26, 1830.
                  
                     72 Ibid, January 8, 1831.
                  
                     73 Ibid, September 3, 1831.
                  
                     74 Ibid, September 10, 1831.
               
                     chose Gen. John 
                        Tipton
                    , a man who supported 
                        Jackson
                    , but opposed his bank policy. The party lines were not drawn in
                    this election. Tipton received 55 votes to 36 for Jesse L. Holman and 14
                        scactering.75
            
            In 1829 the General Assembly passed a law advancing the time for holding the
                    congressional election from 1830 to 1831, making it occur biennially from the
                    latter date.76 The state and local elections were
                    accompanied this year by a vigorous congressional campaign. In the First
                    district Ratliff 
                        Boone
                    , the Jacksonian incumbent, was opposed by John Law. Party lines
                    were as usual more closely drawn here than elsewhere. The record of Boone in
                    congress was also an issue. Boone was elected by a vote of 11,281 to 10,905 for
                    Law. His majority was the largest that he had yet received.77
            
            In the Second district, where there had previously been practically a unanimous
                    sentiment in favor of Jennings, there were six candidates, Jennings being one of
                    them. While he had always been a Clay man, he had never allowed the national
                    issue to enter into his canvass for election to congress. The development of the
                    party spirit made it almost impossible for an independent to be elected.
                    Jennings' personal habits,78 especially the use of
                    intoxicants, had so weakened him that he could not give as good service at this
                    time as formerly, hence his defeat was practically assured before he entered the
                    race. James B. Ray was also an independent candidate but his troubles during his
                    last term as governor had destroyed his popularity and he stood no chance. John
                    H. Thompson and Isaac Howk were also independent candidates. William W. Wick,
                    the son of a Presbyterian minister from Cannonsburg, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , where Jennings, Hendricks, and Dr. Wylie had attended school, was
                    the Anti-
                        Jackson
                     candidate. Wick was well known, popular, and a good campaigner. His
                    political sentiments were perhaps not firmly fixed for he became a Jacksonian
                    four years later.79 Gen. John Carr, a soldier of the 
                  
                     75 Ibid, December 24, 1831.
                  
                     76 Laws of Indiana, 1829 (13th session), 28.
                  
                     77
                            Niles' Register, September 11, 1831.
                  
                     78 Woolen, Biographical and
                                Historical Sketches.
                  
                  
                     79 See the letter of Wick to Mr. Payne of Texas in
                            Woolen's Biogruphical and Historical
                            Sketches, 252.
               
                     War of 1812 who had been a presidential
                    elector on the 
                        Jackson
                     ticket in 1824 was the Jacksonian candidate. The national question
                    was waged between Wick and Carr while the other men depended upon local issues
                    and personal popularity. In the election Carr received 4,855 votes, Wick 4,610,
                    Ray 1,732, Jennings 1,681, Thompson 1,486, and Howk, 454.80
                    The success of Carr was not due to the fact that voting was carried on along
                    party lines, but rather to the fact that the independent vote was distributed
                    among so many men. Carr's vote was less than one third of the total
                    vote cast.
            In the Third district Jonathan McCarthy became the Jacksonian candidate. In the
                    opposition 0. H. Smith had not forgotten events of the campaign of 1828 when
                    John Test and McCarty became candidates during his absence and made such a
                    thorough campaign that Smith saw his case to be hopeless upon his return and
                    withdrew from the race, giving as his excuse that the one elected would
                    represent a minority and he did not care to do so. By this time however, he had
                    forgotten the dangers of being a minority representative, and while Test was in 
                        Washington City
                     he became an active candidate. Test said of the affair in an open
                    letter: 
                        Last fall before I left here for 
                                Washington City
                             and while Mr. Smith was understood to be an applicant for a
                            seat upon the supreme bench, I gave positive assurance to his friends
                            and my friends that I would certainly be a candidate. Mr. Smith never
                            gave me the least intimation that he had any intention or even a desire
                            to be one nor did ever a friend of his give me any information of the
                            kind and until I saw it in the western newspapers at the city of 
                                Washington
                             I did not believe he would offer.81
                  
                    
            
            The 
                        Jackson
                     forces centered all their efforts upon McCarty while the opposition
                    was about equally divided between Test and Smith. A few days before the election
                    rumors were sent all over the district bearing the information that Test had
                    withdrawn from the race as Smith had three years previous.82
                    It was too late for Test to refute the report and hundreds deserted Test for
                    Smith. McCarty however, was elected. 
                  
                     80
                            Niles' Register, September 17, 1831.
                  
                     81
                            Indiana Republican, September 22, 1831.
                  
                     82 See Test's open letter, Indiana Republican, September 22, 1831.
               
                     He received 6,243 votes to 5,289 for Smith
                    and 3,107 for Test88 The Jacksonian party while it had
                    polled much less than half the votes cast upon the congressional question, had
                    secures all the congressmen. This was due to their perfect unity, harmony and
                    organization. The opposition had not yet learned the lesson of concentration.
            The local elections in 1832 were overshadowed by the national election and we
                    know but little about them. All discussions of local issues or local candidates
                    were omitted for the more important discussion of the Bank question. After the
                    election however, both sides claimed the victory. The Indiana Democrat said: 
                        Of the ten senators who were to be elected, five Jacksonians are
                            certainly elected, and the sixth not heard from. Of the seventy-five
                            members of the house of representatives to be elected forty-one out of
                            the sixty-nine already returned are 
                                Jackson
                             men, twenty-eight Clay men and two Anti-
                                Mason
                            , leaving four to come in, and a probability that at least
                            two of them will be for the administration. One of the Anti-Masons was
                            for Clay and the other for 
                                Jackson
                            . Thus has Indiana stood her ground in spite of the outcry
                            against the veto (Bank), and without the least exertion has she entirely
                            changed the state of parties in the house of representatives and will
                            probably have the majority on a joint ballot on the 
                                Jackson
                             side.84
                  
                    
            
            At the same time the National Intelligencer quoted a letter from a gentleman from 
                        Indianapolis
                     which said: 
                        A large majority of National Republicans are elected to the legislature
                            and I have no hesitation in answering you that the electoral ticket
                            favorable to Henry Clay and John Sergeant will be secured in the fall by
                            an overwhelming majority. I perceive that some of the 
                                Jackson
                             politicians are reckoning Indiana among the doubtful
                            states. She is not doubtful.85
                  
                    
            
            Party lines were not sharply drawn in the legislature and when that body had to
                    elect a successor to Senator 
                        Tipton
                    , thirty of the Clay men voted for 
                        Tipton
                    , who was a moderate 
                        Jackson
                     man, and he was easily elected, although the Clay men had a
                    majority of at least six on joint 
                  
                     83
                            Niles' Register, September 17, 1831.
                  
                     84 Niles' Register, September 1, 1832.
                  
                     85 Ibid, September 1, 1832.
               
                     ballot. Other candidates were 
                        Boone
                    , McCarty and Read, Jacksonians and Smith, Blackford and Patterson,
                    Clay men.86
                    
                        Tipton
                    's election was due to his personal popularity and his
                    excellent record as well as his personal opposition to the bank program of 
                        Jackson
                    .
            The census of 1830 showed such an increase in the population of the state that
                    the number of representatives in the lower house of congress was increased from
                    three to seven. The redistricting of the state caused new alignments of
                    politicians and gave room for many new men. The excitement of the campaign of
                    1832 was followed by a relaxation of party spirit and candidates depended more
                    upon their personal popularity and merits in the election of 1833 than they had
                    done in the two previous congressional elections. The campaign was waged about
                    the two national questions, the Bank and Pubilc Lands.87 The
                    Jacksonians appealed to the party spirit and the need of giving support to the
                    administration in its legislative program. The opposition, besides opposing the
                    policies of the administration decried the reign of party enthusiasm. The 
                        Vincennes
                     Gzette, a radical Clay paper, said in an editorial: 
                        If the people, out of the names before them do not choose good men and
                            true men, honest and capable, to' represent them in congress
                            the senate and the house of representatives it will be their own fault.
                            The demon of party excitement now being dormant if not entirely dead, we
                            consider this a most favorable time for the people to make good
                            selections from amongst those who are seeking their favor and we hope
                            sincerely that they will again return to the old Republican maxim above
                            quoted, which of late years has been entirely neglected.88
                  
                    
            
            This radical Clay publication failed to mention the national question in
                    connection with any candidate during the campaign. The election resulted in
                    almost a complete victory for the Jacksonians. Ratliff Boone was elected in the
                    First district, John Ewing in the Second by a majority of two votes: John Carr
                    in the Third, Amos Lane in the Fourth, Jonathan McCarty in the Fifth, Edward A.
                    Hannegan in the Seventh.
            
               
                  86 Ibid, December 22, 1832; January 5, 1833.
               
                  87 See letter of Amos Lane, in Indiana Palladium, July
                        27, 1833.
               
                  85 June 22, 1833.
            
            
            "All thoroughgoing, died-in-the-wool Jacksonians except
                        Ewing."89 This was the, first time in four
                    years that the state legislature had not been required to elect a member of the
                    national senate. For that reason it was more free from the national question
                    than it had recently been and that question was not argued in the election that
                    year.
            The first candidate for governor ever selected by a State convention in Indiana
                    was James G. Read, the Jacksonian candidate in 1834. The convention met in 
                        Indianapolis
                     Monday, Dec. 9, 1833. Only 27 counties sent representatives, Samuel 
                        Milroy
                     was made chairman of the convention. It was provided that friends
                    of the administration who chanced to be present from the unrepresented counties
                    should act as delegates. It was also provided that each county should have as
                    many votes as it had representatives in the General Assembly.90 The 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Gazette gave a vivid characterization of the cenvention in its
                    account of its proceedings. It said: 
                        The convention, composed of about seventy very respectable looking, in
                            most cases, self-constituted delegates, held their meeting December 9,
                            in the hall of the house of representatives which had adjourned to
                            accommodate them. After a great deal of argument, and confusion, an
                            adjournment was agreed upon in order that the contending interests might
                            each ascertain their respective strength and form such combinations and
                            coalitions as would insure a majority on the first ballot, for some one
                            of the many aspirants for the nomination to the office of governor and
                            lieutenant-governor, by a committee styling itself
                            Democratic-Republican; but in reality it was an assemblage of office
                            seekers, pensioners of the treasury, office holders and men who held
                            their politics in their hand for sale to the highest and best bidder. A
                            small portion of the members were no doubt good honest men animated by a
                            desire to sustain principles.91
                  
                    
            
            James G. Read was nominated on the second ballot for governor over Jacob B. Lowe
                    of 
                        Monroe county
                    . David Cully of 
                        Dearborn county
                     was nominated for lieutenant governor over Ross Smiley,
                    Read's former running mate. The convention also appointed three
                    delegates from each congressional 
                  
                     89
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Gazette, September 7, 1833.
                  
                     90 Indiana Journal, December 11, 1833.
                  
                     91 December 16, 1833.
               
                     district to attend a national convention
                    should one be held. Read was notified of his nomination by a committee appointed
                    for that purpose and he accepted through the publication of a short circular
                        letter.92
            
            Noble and Wallace as governor and lieutenant governor had been extremely popular
                    officials and they were generally regarded as candidates for reelection long
                    before their terms expired. They were unopposed within their own party and
                    became the candidates by merely announcing themselves as such.
            Candidates by this time depended almost entirely upon the stump rather than the
                    press to influence public opinion. Read and Cully and Noble and Wallace visited
                    every part of the state. The Comet published at 
                        Charleston
                    , Indiana, complained: 
                        The country is much annoyed this year by smallpox, measles, cholera,
                            snakes, tatlers, mad dogs, and long speeches.93
                  
                    
            
            The Western Constellation published at 
                        Covington
                    , gives the following estimate of the nature of the campaign
                    gathered from the speeches of Read and Noble given in 
                        Covington
                     on Wednesday, July 30, 1834: 
                        The canvass appears to be conducted by both of them with an unusual
                            degree of spirit and zeal. Upon the great questions of the day
                            —the bank of the 
                                United States
                            , the public land, etc. —they differ entirely,
                            Judge Read being opposed in the most positive terms to the adoption of
                            Mr. Clay's land bill and the recharter of the Bank of the 
                                United States
                            .94
                  
                    
            
            The popularity of Noble was too much for Read's appeal to partisanism to
                    overcome and Noble was easily elected by a vote of 27,676 to 19,994 for Read
                    with 25 scattering.95 It is a significant fact that the
                    total vote 48,795 was more than ten thousand greater than the total vote cast
                    three years previous, which was only 37,549. This was largely due to the
                    increased population. Wallace's vote was almost two thousand greater
                    than that of Noble. He received 29,451 to 14,260 for Cully.
            
               
                  92 Western Sun, February 8, 1834.
               
                  93 Ibid, May 31, 1834.
               
                  94 August 1, 1834.
               
                  95 House Journal, 1834, p. 35.
            
            
            
                    
                        Beyond the election of Andrew 
                                Jackson
                             vs. John 
                                Quincy
                             Adams and Henry Clay the people of this state have never
                            been drilled to wear the collar of party. Our state legislature has
                            never been thus constituted and it has elected senators in congress from
                            Clay districts and vice versa. This is in the main as it should be. When
                            the time comes throughout this union that all our state elections must
                            be shaped by predilections for a pair of competitors for the presidency
                            then you may talk about state sovereignty and rights but it will be
                            nothing but talk. The president may then speak of his money, his
                            officers, his army and his navy, for they will be his to all intents and
                            purposes, for forwarding his imperial designs.96
                  
                    
                
            The Western Sun, offered this as an apology for the election of
                    Noble. A little later it gave perhaps a better estimate of conditions within the
                    state when it said: 
                        Indiana is Democratic to the core—that circumstances wholly
                            unconnected with general poltics may have occasionally presented a state
                            of things which would perhaps lead those who are unacquainted with our
                            local affairs to a different conclusion is no doubt true. That our
                            gubernatorial election; that our election for members of congress and to
                            the state legislature may have resulted in a choice sometimes of those
                            who differ from the great body of the Democratic party in their views of
                            men and measures, so far as the general government is concerned is also
                            no doubt true—the gubernatorial question then I repeat, had
                            nothing to do with general politics, or with the succession to the
                                presidency.97
                  
                    
            
            The election of the state legislature attracted little attention beyond the
                    personality of the local candidates. There is little or no newspaper comment
                    upon the subject except the mere announcement of candidates and of speaking
                    dates, and in these there is no reference to party. After the election, the Indiana Democrat claimed a Jacksonian victory. It said: 
                        Notwithstanding the vain boasting of the opposition that Jacksonism was
                            totally demolished in Indiana at the late elections our readers may rest
                            assured that there is a majority of 
                                Jackson
                             men elected to the house of representatives; and in the
                            senate there are more 
                                Jackson
                             men than ever before took their seats in the
                            senate' of Indiana.98
                  
                    
            
            There was no occasion for a political division and we have to depend upon such
                    comments to get the political complexion 
                  
                     96
                            Western Sun, September 13, 1834.
                  
                     97 Ibid, December 18, 1834.
                  
                     98 Western Bun, September 20, 1834.
               
                     of the legislature. It is certain however
                    that on joint ballot it would have been Anti-Jacksonian.
            Party spirit which had run at such high tension for the last ten years was now
                    beginning to lose its force. Jacksonianism had now accomplished its purpose. It
                    had vindicated 
                        Jackson
                    . The issues about which it had rallied were either settled or the
                    Jacksonians had strength enough to determine them as they wished. Then with 
                        Jackson
                     vindicated, in the absence of a vital issue, and with the existing
                    hard times, a lull in the political storm was to give away to a reaction against
                    the Jacksonians when the flush times were followed by the panic of 1837.
            In the election of 1835 there was a decided lull in the party spirit. For
                    congress in the First district,99 Ratliff Boone was opposed
                    by J. G. Clendennen; in the Second, John Ewing was opposed by John W. Davis; in
                    the Third, John Carr had as his opponent Charles Dewey while in the Fourth, Amos
                    Lane's seat was contested by George H. Dunn. In the Fifth, Jonathan
                    McCarty had John Finley and James Rariden op posed to him. In the Sixth, there
                    was not enough opposition to George Kinnard to attract a rival candidate, but in
                    the Seventh, Edward A. Hannegan had two opponents in the persons of Thomas J.
                    Evans and James Gregory. The campaign was remarkably free from the national
                    question. Hannegan declared in his announcement of his candidacy that, should
                    the election of president fall upon the house he would stand by the majority in
                    his district, 100 while the Western Sun urged the voters, a
                    few days before the election to: 
                        Let every man act as becomes a freeman, as such we all have principles to
                            maintain. Vote for such men as will advocate and maintain them and all
                            will be well.101
                  
                    
            
            These were the nearest approach to the national question to be found. The
                    election showed the return of all the 
                        Jackson
                     men and the supplanting of Mr. Ewing by Mr. Davis The Western Sun in commenting upon the election of Davis said: 
                  
                     99
                            Ibid, April 26, 1835.
                  
                     100
                            Ibid, March 28, 1835.
                  
                     101 August 1. 1835.
               
                    
                    
                        The district has been redeemed, regenerated and disenthralled by the
                            virtue and intelligence of a free people.102
                  
                    
            
            More modern political methods, than heretofore, were perhaps used in this
                    election. Mr. S. L. Halbert of 
                        Mt. Pleasant
                     complained in a column and a half article in the Western, Sun,103 about the use of party tickets in
                    the congressional election. He also charged that a contractor on the National
                    road had used influence to cause his men to vote against Mr. Ewing. In
                    'the same issue the editor defends the things that Mr. Halbert
                    complains about. He said: 
                        What freeman will deny the right of another to have tickets printed with
                            such name or names on them as he likes best.
                    
            
            In the legislative elections, party division was entirely lacking this year.
            The only local election of importance in 1836 wm that of the legislature. The
                    body chosen at this election would have to elect a 
                        United States
                     Senator to succeed William Hendricks. This, and the fact that it
                    was a presidential year brought the national question into the legislative
                    election.104 Both sides claimed a majority on joint ballot,105 but the Anti-
                        Jackson
                     forces had a decided majority. In the senatorial election, Senator
                    Hendricks was opposed by Governor Noah Noble, Ratliff 
                        Boone
                    , and Oliver H. Smith. The Jacksonian members of the General
                    Assembly, preferred Smith to Noble and when it was seen that the cause of either
                    Hendricks or Boone was helpless they threw their strength to Smith and he was
                    elected on the ninth ballot by a majority of sixteen votes over Noble.106
            
            The loss of the state by the administration forces in 1836 left that party
                    defeated and grasping for some issues about which they could rally their forces.
                    They could not hope to elect a governor by an appeal to partisanism for the
                    majority in the state was now clearly against them. Their cause in the 
                  
                     102 August 16, 1835.
                  
                     103 September 26, 1835.
                  
                     104
                            See Western Sun, August 6, 13, and October 8, 1836.
                  
                     105 Ibid, September 3, 1836.
                  
                     106 Smith, O. H., Horly Indiana
                                Trials and Sketches, 141.
               
                     election of 1837, became all the more
                    hopeless when David Wallace, the most popular man in the state announced himself
                    as candidate for governor early in February.107 Although the
                    people of the state were feeling the effects of the hard times, the sale of
                    public lands had kept money enough in circulation to do the legitimate business,
                    and there still existed a strong tendency towards extravagant expenditure of
                    public funds. Accordingly when Wallace advocated an extensive system of internal
                    improvements at state expense, his popularity was very greatly increased. The
                    Jacksonians, who had only three years previous used all the power of the
                    administration to nominate and elect James G. Read, did not bring out a
                    candidate against Wallace, and John Dumont, a Whig, became his opponent. The
                    appeal for votes was made entirely upon local issues. 
                        Mr. Dumont ran on the branch of internal improvements known as
                            "classification," while Governor Wallace went for
                            construction simultaneously of the whole works.108
                  
                    
            
            However, when the radical administration forces did not give Dumont support, as
                    partisan opponents of Wallace the Western Sun in noticing his speech in 
                        Vincennes
                     said: 
                        Mr. Dumont, one of the candidates for governor, visited this place on
                            Thursday last, and amused a portion of our good citizens by a display of
                            stump oratory. I say amused for they were certainly so, and I might be
                            in error had the word instructed been substituted. I cannot say whether
                            he brightened his prospects here by his exhibition or not. The sovereign
                            arbitors seemed to differ upon this point and I myself rather incline to
                            the belief that he has had his labor for his pains.109
                  
                    
            
            The editor, however, urged' all voters to come out on election day.110
                    The election resulted in an overwhelming victory for Wallace. He received 45,240
                    votes to 36,197 for Dumont.111 David Hillis was elected lieutenant governor over
                    Alexander Burnette by a vote of 48,823 to 22,311,111 There
                        
                  
                     107
                            Western Bun, February 11, 1837.
                  
                     108 Smith, O. H., Early Indiana
                                Trials and Sketches, 132.
                  
                     109 July 22, 1837.
                  
                     110 August 6, 1837.
                  
                     111 House Journal, 1837, pp. 28-29.
               
                     was no mention of national politics in the
                    press by either side during the campaign, and even in his inaugural address
                    Wallace did not mention the national questions of banks, currency, or hard
                        times.112 Party enthusiasm rarely gives way to complete
                    dejection to a greater degree than it did in Indiana from 1834 to 1837.
            The dejection 'that characterized the governorship election, gave way to
                    Jacksonian disaster in the congressional election. For the first time party
                    distinction is made throughout the state and the candidates are known as the
                    Whig, and the administration or Democratic candidates. The Whig candidates were
                    John Pitcher in the First district; John Ewing in the Second; William Graham in
                    the Third; George H. Dunn in the Fourth; James Rariden in 'the Fifth;
                    William W. Wick in the Sixth; and Albert S. White in the Seventh. These were
                    opposed respectively by Ratliff 
                        Boone
                    , John Law, J. S. Simon-son, Amos Lane, Jonathan McCarty, James B.
                    Ray, (also Whig) and Nathan 
                        Jackson
                    . Two years before seven 
                        Jackson
                     men had been elected but now all of them were defeated by
                    substantial majorities except 
                        Boone
                    ,113 and he was elected by a majority of less
                    than a hundred. In the Seventh district the Democrats did not carry a single
                    county. The cause for the change was so apparent that the Democrats did not try
                    to offer excuses. They could only abuse. The Western Sun in
                    summarizing the election, while it was thought that Boone was defeated,
                    commented that they were "all Federalists."114 The 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Courier took exception to the term and the Sun replied: 
                        They are Federalist because they possess the same principles that the
                            Federalists did in 1799 and 1800.115
                  
                    
            
            The national question was left entirely out of the legislative election this
                    year, but since the legislature had never been Jacksonian, there was no possible
                    chance for it to become so this year. The slump from the Democratic ranks 
                  
                     112 Western Bun, December 80, 1881.
                  
                     113 Niles' Register.
                  
                     114 August 19, 1837.
                  
                     115 August 26, 1837.
               
                     continued into the next year and there was
                    no attempt to revive the party spirit in the local elections of 1839. When the
                    elections were over the Indiana Journal very modestly
                    announced that the Whigs would have a majority of thirty votes on joint ballot
                    in the General Assembly.116 This was also the year to elect
                    a 
                        United States
                     senator to succeed John 
                        Tipton
                    . Mr. Tipton early in the year realized that his reelection was
                    impossible and refused to be a candidate.117
                    "Jefferson" in an open letter, conceded that it was impossible
                    to elect a Democrat to the senate.118 He urged the Democratic members of the
                    legislature to consider well the course they should take, and for them,
                    "to a man to vote for an honest firm and consistent member of their own
                    party" or to cast blank ballots. The election was the most bitterly
                    contested senatorial election yet experienced in the state. It occupied four
                    days and went to thirty-six ballots. On that ballot Albert S. White,
                    representative in Congress from the Seventh district, was elected. He received
                    75 votes to 37 for Colonel Thomas Blake, representative from the 
                        Vincennes
                     district, 11 for Governor Noble, 16 for Tilghman A. Howard and
                    three scattering.119 Mr. White was not nearly so well known
                    as the other candidates.
            The disaster of 1837 thoroughly awakened the Democrats to the real condition
                    within the state, while the panic of 1837 and the unpopularity of Van Buren were
                    alienating hundreds from the cause, while the popularizing of Governor
                    Wallace's scheme of internal improvements was attaching like numbers to
                    their opponents. In 1838 they began to prepare for 'the congressional
                    campaign of 1839. The Western Sun again took the lead. On
                    November 3, 1838, it admonished the party that: 
                        The time has now emphatically arrived when the Democratic party in
                            Indiana should assume its correct position. Too long have we permitted
                            the enemy to dictate to us, our course of action. We should take the
                            necessary steps to make our principles successful. At the last
                            congressional election of this state, in almost every district, our
                            party was unprepared. They had suffered the matter to run too long and
                            when 
                        
                           116 Western Sun, August 18, 1838.
                        
                           117 Ibid, May 12, 1838.
                        
                           118 Ibid, September 22, 1838.
                        
                           119 Niles' Register, December 22,
                                    1838.
                     
                             the trial came they were unprepared
                            and of course defeated except in the district of the invincible 
                                Boone
                            . From past blunders we should learn and correct what was
                            wrong. Under every view of the case I am convinced that the correct
                            policy is to bring our candidates immediately on the track fearlessly
                            and openly. I cannot see that anything is to be gained by delay.
                    
            
            The admonition of the editor met with a ready response in his own district. The
                    previous election had been so disastrous that there appeared to be no
                    self-offered candidate. To meet the situation the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Enquirer proposed a district convention to be held at 
                        Bloomfield
                     in Green county.120 The Western Sun seized the idea and issued a
                    call for such a convention to be held on Monday, March 18, 1839. It requested
                    the Democrats in each county in the district to elect delegates to the
                    convention, and declared that, harmony and union are now necessary; principles
                    and not men should be our motto.121 This sounded strongly
                    like the cry of the administration forces at the time of Adams. At the same time
                    that the Sun sent out its call for March 18, other calls were
                    sent out 'for March 22 and the editor of the Sun
                    agreed to that date.122 The 
                        Knox county
                     Democrats selected their delegates on February 16, and pledged
                    themselves to support whatever candidate of the Democratic party said District
                    convention should nominate. There was an unanimous feeling in this meeting that
                    the convention was necessary.128 The Vigo county convention
                    to nominate delegates endorsed the name of John Davis for congress, attached the
                    name Federalist, condemned the Federal Whig congressman, denounced the attacks
                    upon the administration and expressed confidence in the people. They also
                    provided for the appointment of county committees and the distribution of the
                    Democratic paper.124 The district convention at 
                        Bloomfield
                     was made up of representatives from every county within the
                    district. It nominated John W. Davis for congress. Its resolutions expressed
                    confidence in the administration; condemned the Federal Whigs; hoped for a 
                  
                     120
                            Western Sun, January 26. 1839.
                  
                     121 Ibid.
                  
                     122 February 2, 1839.
                  
                     123
                            Ibid, February 23, 1839.
                  
                     124 Ibid, March 2, 1839.
               
                     speedy completion of the 
                        Cumberland
                     road; and provided for Vigilance committees in the various
                        counties.125 This was the first congressional convention
                    within the state and the name of its nominee was placed at the head of a party
                    ticket in the newspapers of the district.126 This is the
                    first time that the papers had published any party ticket except presidential
                    candidates and presidential electors. The Whigs in the same district also chose
                    the convention plan to nominate their candidate.127 John
                    Ewing became their candidate. In the First district, the Democrats chose Robert
                    Dale Owen as their candidate to the exclusion at Ratliff 
                        Boone
                    . The cause lies in the growing unpopularity of 
                        Boone
                    . He had been; 
                        for the last ten years pursued by the blood hounds of the Federal press
                            throughout the country with a spirit of malignity which has no parallel
                            in the history of modern times.128
                  
                    
            
            Owen's opponent was George H. Proffitt. In the Third district John Carr,
                    Democrat, was opposed by William Garaham. In the Fourth Thomas H. Smith,
                    Democrat, was opposed by George H. Dunn. In the Fifth district James Rariden,
                    Whig, was opposed by McCarty and Thompson both Democrats, while in the Sixth
                    district, W. W. Wick opposed William Herrod. In the Seventh, T. A. Howard,
                    Democrat, was opposed by Thomas J. Evans. The campaign was remarkably free from
                    personal abuse. The case of Owen in the First district was the exception. The
                    communistic experiment at 
                        New Harmony
                     by the Owens was not well understood throughout the state and Mr.
                    Owens was charged with infidelity, licentiousness and other crimes against
                    morality and religion.129 The charges were proven false but
                    not until too late in the campaign to save the election, and Proffitt was
                    elected by 779 votes. The other men elected were, Davis, Carr, Smith, Rariden,
                        
                  
                     125 Ibid, March 30, 1839.
                  
                     126 Ibid, April 13, 1839.
                  
                     127 Ibid, May 4, 1839.
                  
                     128 Western Bun, June 30, 1838. Boone immediately
                            left the state and went to 
                                Missouri
                            , where he entered politics as an opponent of Benton and
                            soon became the leader of the opposition. On November 20, 1844, he
                            waited at the wharf all day to get returns from the election. He said
                            that he would be ready to die if Polk were elected. When the boat
                            brought news of Polk's election he went home and died in a few
                            hours. See Woolen's Biographical and Historical
                                Sketches of Indiana, 4.
                  
                     129 Woolen, Biographical and Historical Sketches,
                            291.
               
                     Wick and Howard.130 The
                    election of Rariden was due to the fact that the Democratic vote was split
                    between McCarty and Thompson. The Western Sun immediately announced that five
                    Democrats and two Federalists had been elected to congress.131 It gave the results of the election of members of the state
                    legislature as ten Democrats and seven Federalists to the senate and 61
                    Democrats and 39 Federalists to the house of representatives. It also claimed
                    for the Democrats a decided majority on joint ballot. The failure of Governor
                    Wallace's scheme for internal improvements perhaps caused the change in
                    the state legislature.
            The political feeling in 1840 was even more intense than it was in 1828. The
                    contest in 1828 had centered about men, and principles entered into the contest
                    only as incidents or political capital. That of 1840 differed from it in that it
                    was a great party struggle. Party success was the first thing aimed at and
                    principles were largely secondary to party and men were yet secondary to
                    principles. While men were brought forward and contests centered about the
                    personality of men it was done not as a reward to men for service nor as a
                    recognition of fitness for office but rather that party success might be
                    attained through the popularity of candidates.
            Both parties were active long before the time for election. The election for
                    governor and for president for the second time both came in the same year, 1840.
                    Party lines were sharply drawn on state issues and both sides felt that the
                    party which elected the governor in August would carry the state for president
                    in November. The Democrats had recovered from their dejection and were more
                    determined than they had ever been before. Their spirit was alarming to the
                    Whigs. O. H. Smith wrote to Clay on September 28,1839, that: 
                        The party opposed to us seemed to be united and moved by one common
                            impulse while their watchword is Democracy, understood by few but
                            powerful with the masses; and however little the party is entitled to
                            its name it has it, and we have to meet the false issue made for us with
                            the additional and equally false cry of Federalism ringing in our
                                ears.182
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  180 Niles' Register, September 21, 1839.
               
                  181 August 31, 1829.
               
                  182 Smith, O. H., Early Indiana Trials
                            and Sketches, 252.
            
            
            By the first of October, they were making preparation for a state convention to
                    be held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on January 8, the anniversary of the Battle of 
                        New Orleans
                    .183 Conventions were held in almost every
                    county in the state, and when the convention met in 
                        Indianapolis
                     more than six hundred delegates were present. Samuel 
                        Milroy
                     was made chairman and was escorted to the chair by two
                    Revolutionary soldiers, Tilghman A. Howard was chosen as a candidate for
                    governor, The nominations were unanimous. A set of resolutions was adopted
                    praising 
                        Jackson
                     and condemning extravagant speculation and the credit system.134 "Union, concession, harmony, everything for the
                    cause, nothing for men" because the Democratic motto and under it the
                    loyal party men displayed all the determination they had shown while their party
                    was on its rise.
            The Whigs were in an awkward situation to begin the campaign. David Wallace, the
                    Whig candidate had been elected governor in 1837 upon the question of internal
                    improvements. He attempted to complete the entire system of roads, canals,
                    railroads, etc., at one time. The state was fortunate in securing loans but was
                    defrauded out of millions by speculators. This, added to the general depression
                    in the money market, caused the system to break down. The state was left heavily
                    in debt with an immense amount of unfinished improvements which yielded no tolls
                    and offered no facilities to farmers for travel and added no value to real
                        estate.186 The failure of Wallace's scheme made
                    it almost impossible for him to be elected in 1840 and his party determined to
                    pass him by. The week following the Democratic convention the Whigs met in
                    convention on January 16, 1840. The delegates began to pour into 
                        Indianapolis
                     four or five days prior to the date of the convention. They came in
                    wagons richly decorated, and sometimes in processions headed by bands, and
                    bearing flashy banners. On the evening of January 15, the assembly met with
                    Samuel Judah of 
                        Knox county
                    , the former Jacksonian as chairman, and formed a temporary
                    organization. 
                  
                     133 Western Bun, October 4, 6. 1839.
                  
                     134 Ibid, January 26, 1840.
                  
                     135 See Logan Esarey, Internal
                                Improvements in Early Indiana, ch. 3, 78-116.
               
                     The next day the delegates formed in a
                    monstrous procession in front of the capital and paraded the principal streets
                    of the city. The procession was headed by a large banner bearing the likeness of
                    General Harrison. This was followed by bands with other banners in highly
                    decorated wagons. Near the rear was a banner bearing the inscription,
                    "We are for a government for the people and not for a government of
                    office holders." And on the reverse side it said: "General
                    Harrison has fought more battles than any other general and never sustained a
                    defeat." The rear was brought up by a number of 
                        Indianapolis
                     boys each bearing a flag and wearing a blue sash.
            After parading the streets the procession returned to the State House, but
                    finding it too small to hold the crowd organized in the open air although it was
                    midwinter. Samuel Judah, the author of the first address of the Jacksonians to
                    the people (1824) was made permanent chairman. A number of resolutions were
                    adopted and Samuel Bigger and Samuel Hall were nominated for governor and
                    lieutenant governor respectively.186 Bigger was judge of the
                    Sixth judicial circuit. He was a graduate of Ohio university and a man of strict
                    political and moral integrity. He was over six feet tall, well proportioned,
                    fine faced, blue eyes, prominent forehead, a very commanding appearance, a fair
                    stump speaker, plain and candid in his statements, leaving a lasting impression
                    upon his audience always closing with an eulogy on the life and character of
                    General Harrison.187 The president of the convention
                    appointed a committee of five senators and five representatives to manage the
                    campaign. Upon them fell the burden of managing the entire campaign both state
                    and national.
            The state campaign was merged in the National. Prior to the August election the
                    Democrats met the Whig cry of Harrison and Reform with the cry of Howard and
                    reform, redeem the state.138 However, at the time of his nomination Howard 
                  
                     136 For proceedings of the convention see the
                            Loganeport Telegraph, February 8, 1840; also Indiana Journal, January 18, 1840.
                  
                     137 Smith, O. H., Early Indiana Trials and
                            Sketches, 349.
                  
                     138
                            Western Sun, July 11, 1840.
               
                     was a representative in congress and
                    refused to resign until the close of the session for which he was severely
                    attacked by the Whig papers. Later he did resign to take part in the campaign
                    and the Whigs attacked him for drawing $8.00 per day for
                        electioneering.189 The charge was false, however, Bigger
                    was everywhere called the Federalist candidate by his opponents, while the Whigs
                    complained of their opponent 88 belonging to the "Standing army of Van
                        Buren."190 Scores of able speakers visited
                    every part of the state during the summer.191 An attempt was
                    made to draw Howard out on the question of Internal Improvements. He replied
                    that he considered the system attempted as too expensive and favored a more
                    limited work according to capital. Since the campaign was waged largely upon the
                    national issues, the memory of the panic of 1837 and the local popularity of
                    Harrison were too much even for the popularity and noble character of Howard.
                    The enthusiasm was almost entirely upon the side of the Whigs and the Democrats
                    were driven to resort to admonition and ridicule. The celebration of the battle
                    of Tippecanoe was termed a show.192 Bigger said nothing that
                    was very smart or very exceptional in his speech in 
                        Vincennes
                    .143 The Democrats were admonished that the
                    "Federal party" intended getting up a free dinner and
                    distributing as much liquor as possible in each township (
                        Knox county
                    ) and that they must taste not and touch not the unclean thing, let
                    their opponents act as they might.194 The Democrats were
                    warned that the Whigs appealed to their passions instead of a deliberate
                    examination of the great questions upon the right decision of which depended the
                    prosperity of their government. They wished to secure their suffrages as they
                    would the huzzas of a child, by exhibitions, by parades, by music, by
                    processions, by flags.146 When the election was over the Whigs were accused of
                    buying up votes with liquor.146 In the August election 
                  
                     139
                            Western Sun, July 11, 1840.
                  
                     140 Ibid, June 27, 1840.
                  
                     141 Smith, O. H., Early Indiana
                                Trials and Sketches, 350.
                  
                     142
                            Western Sun, June 6, 1840.
                  
                     143
                            Ibid, May 2, 1840.
                  
                     144
                            Ibid, July 25, 1840.
                  
                     145
                            Ibid, August 1, 1840.
                  
                     146
                            Ibid, August 8, 1840.
               
                     Bigger received 62,678 votes and Howard
                        54,083.147 National politics had for the first time
                    determined a state election, General Howard had received three thousand more
                    votes than his party was destined to poll in the November elections but he could
                    not break the spell of the Whig-Harrison-Log-Cabin and Hard-cider campaign.
            There was an overwhelming land-slide in the legislative election. There were 14
                    Whig and 2 Democratic senators and 77 Whig and 23 Democratic representatives
                    elected from the same districts that had sent nine Democrats and 7 Whigs
                    senators and 62 Democrats and 38 Whigs representatives at the last election.148 Upon the resignation of Howard as Representative Edward
                    A. Hannegan became the Democratic candidate to fill the vacancy, while Henry s.
                    Lane was the Whig candidate. The campaign was entirely on national issues and in
                    addition Hannegan had a wider acquaintance and a greater popularity than Lane.
                    Lane however, was easily elected by a vote of 10,883 to 9,427 while the year
                    before Howard, Democrat, had carried the same district by a majority of 1,754.
                    The Whigs had made a gain of 3,210 votes.149
            
            Indiana had now become as thoroughly partisan in state politics as she was in
                    national. Local officials, except legislators, were not for a few years elected
                    upon a party ticket, but party spirit was so strong that it WM the rule for a
                    Whig to vote for a Whig and a Democrat to vote for a Democrat although neither
                    party had a distinct ticket. From this time forward, national issues determined
                    state elections and independent voting almost ceased to exist.
            
               
                  147 House Journal, 1840, p. 80.
               
                  148 Niles' Register, August
                        22, 1340.
               
                  149 Niles' Register, August
                        22, 1840.
            
         
         
         
            Barnabas Coffin Hobbs
            BY MINNIE B. CLARK, 
                        Salem
                    
            
            In the history of education in Indiana the name of Barnabas C. Hobbs occupies a
                    prominent place. Living at a period when the state's educational system
                    was undergoing some radical changes, he took an ardent and active interest in
                    the up-building and betterment of the schools. To him we may attribute some of
                    the marked transitions in the development of Indiana's schools and
                    school laws and in the epoch of 1836 to 1886—a half hundred
                    years—he won for himself a niche in the brilliant assemblage of
                    notable Indiana educators. To all the pioneer educators and teachers who labored
                    so earnestly for the cause under adverse conditions, we, of today feel a debt of
                    gratitude for the splendid things they wrought in the cause of education. But in
                    the illustrious group of scholarly men of that era, the figure of Barnabas C.
                    Hobbs appeals to us—the people of 
                        Washington county
                    —more strongly because of his nativity. Born in this
                    county, we claim him as our own and honor him as a native son.
            Barnabas C. Hobbs first saw the light of day in a modest but well-to-do pioneer
                    home just a short distance from 
                        Salem
                    , one hundred and seven years ago, yet we bridge the century of time
                    with little effort and endeavor to review the past and gather up the essentials
                    to combine a short sketch of his life. A charm hovers over the people and the
                    things of "yesterday." We believe heartily in that beautiful
                    sentiment expressed by Alphonse Karr, in the words:
            "Not to do honor to old age is to demolish in the morning the house
                    wherein we are to sleep at night."
            Imbued with this idea the 
                        Washington County
                     historical society included in its work as a special feature
                    historical sketches of its early pioneer eminent citizens and families. Under
                    this list of biographies, that of Barnabas C. Hobbs has been written with the
                    hope some student of local or state history may be benefitted by its
                    preparation.
            
            Barnabas Hobbs was born October 4, 1815 in an attractive and favored section of
                    country about two and one half miles from 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, and about one-half mile west of Canton. He was the son of
                    William and Priscilla Coffin Hobbs, who came to Indiana from Guilford county, 
                        North Carolina
                    . Elisha and Fanny Hobbs were parents of William Hobbs. Early in
                    life they embraced the 
                        Quaker
                     faith. They and their children and their children's
                    children have ever since been members of the Society of Friends. Priscilla
                    Coffin was the daughter of Samuel and Mary Coffin. She became the bride of
                    William Hobbs 1799, 8th day of the 8th month. In an autobiography of William
                    Hobbs, edited by his son Professor B. C. Hobbs, William Hobbs says. "We
                    had but little of this world's goods to begin with and land was very
                    poor. We had to work very hard and having an increasing family, I learned the
                    saddlers trade, which I followed while I stayed in 
                        North Carolina
                    ."
            In imagination we picture this Carolinian home and family eager to start on a
                    journey northward to a land of promise- fair Indiana-then the great northwest.
                    With many emigrants faring forth to a new country, they came in the spring of
                    1812 to Indiana territory and settled on the headwaters of Blue River, in what
                    is now 
                        Washington county
                    , then Harrison, a newly settled place. A few Friends had settled
                    near them and thus the nucleus for pleasant worship of a common faith was
                    started. From this time on there predominated in the life of this family that
                    religious and Godly Christian living, the influence of which blended and formed
                    the character of their son Barnabas C. Hobbs. Under the teachings of these
                    strong determined characters that emigrated from the old North State he imbided
                    the firm and indomitable traits of his pioneer forefathers. As a 
                        Quaker
                     minister William Hobbe was zealous and earnest and much of his time
                    was spent in travel (horse back) to the meetings he served.
            Three years after the death of Priscilla Coffin, whose piety and faith was as
                    devout as that of her husband, William Hobbs was again married (1839) to Anna
                    Unthank, an approved minister of the Friends church of 
                        Wayne county
                    , Indiana, and  thus his
                    ministerial calling and duties were strengthened and blessed in the union.
            In this work of gospel preaching and teaching, his son Barnabas Coffin Hobbs,
                    followed his father's footsteps and became a noted minister of the
                    Society of Friends and was probably the greatest scholar of Bible literature in
                    any Friends church.
            Barnabas Hobbs was the youngest of a family of eight children—having
                    two brothers and five sisters. At the age of about six years, his parents moved
                    to Martin county. His boyhood was spent on the farm where he learned to hunt,
                    fish, swim and enjoy all the sports of that day and generation. At an early age
                    he evinced a strong liking for books and his future as student, teacher and
                    scholar seemed assured by the time he reach his sixteenth birthday. At the age
                    of eighteen he taught his first school. This was in 
                        Bartholomew county
                    , Indiana.
            At about this time—during the decade of 1830—he became a
                    pupil of John I. Morrison, "The Hoosier Arnold" at the 
                        Washington County
                     seminary at 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, having as classmates, John S. Campbell, James G. May, Z.
                    B. Sturgis, W. C. De Pauw, Elijah Newland, Thomas Rodman and Nathan Kimball.
            In the year 1837-38 he was assistant principal of the Blue River Friends academy
                    east of 
                        Salem
                     and the following year served as principal of the school. This
                    practically closed his career in his native county.
            The following sketch from the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Journal, published just after Mr. Hobbs' death, June 22,
                    1892, at Bloomingdale, Indiana, gives the outstanding events of his life: 
                        Professor Hobbs was born near 
                        Salem, Washington
                                county
                     , Indiana. At the early age of eighteen
                            he taught his first term of school. His pupils numbered forty and many
                            of them his seniors. In 1837 he entered the 
                                Cincinnati
                             college. He chose an elective rather than a regular course,
                            and hence was not eligible to the honor of a degree on his withdrawal in
                            1839, though he was recognized as possessing all that is implied by a
                            thorough college training and subsequently received a master's
                            degree from Wabash college.
                        In 1839 he assumed charge of a boarding school at Mount Pleasant, 
                                Ohio
                            , and remained at the head of that institution until 1843,
                            when  he married and removed to 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana. He established a school there and conducted it
                            for four years with marked success. The Society of Friends then
                            established a school, of which he was made superintendent. In 1851 he
                            was chosen to the superintendency of the Bloomingdale, (Ind.) academy,
                            where he continued for sixteen years. In 1866, he was appointed by
                            Governor Morton, a member of the board of trustees of the new State
                            Normal school. In the same year he was elected the first president of
                            Earlham college at 
                                Richmond
                            . At the end of two years he was elected superintendent of
                            public instruction.
                        Immediately after the election—in October
                            186G—Superintendent Hoss resigned his office, and Mr. Hobbs
                            was appointed by the governor to fill the vacancy, the regular term not
                            commencing until about five months later. Superintendent Hobbs was thus
                            left to make the biennial report of 1868. It is unique in style and most
                            interesting in substance. He presented the cause of the colored people
                            in a masterly manner. On the 28th of July of that year the fourteenth
                            amendment had been declared a part of the constitution.
                        Superintendent Hobbs was among the first in his country to give attention
                            to the subject of graded public schools. It was his idea that the rural
                            schools should prepare pupils systematically for the high schools and
                            the latter for the State university. In 1869 he issued a new edition of
                            the school law, and in 1870 he made his second report to the
                            legislature. Disappointed in his effort to secure needed legislation, it
                            remained for him to do what he might to promote the efficiency of the
                            school system as it was. He labored to secure the levying of a special
                            tuition tax where it was necessary to -tend the school term.
                        He retired from the department in 1871, and immediately returned to
                            Bloomingdale, where he again assumed charge of the academy. In all the
                            years that followed he has been a very busy man. In 1872 he made a
                            geological survey of Parke county. As trustee of the State Normal school
                            and of the Rose Polytechnic, he has contributed largely to their
                            success.
                        In 1879, the Friends of America were moved to send a message to
                            Alexander, the Emperor of Russia, and another to William, the'
                            Emperor of 
                                Germany
                            . Professor Hobbs was chosen to perform this mission. At St. 
                                Petersburg
                             he left with the prime minister, a memorial, which urged
                            that the mennonites of the empire-a sect conscientiously opposed to
                            war-might be relieved from military service. At Berlin, Professor Hobbs
                            presented the Crown Prince a memorial which advocated the settlement of
                            international disputes by arbitration, rather than by war. For some
                            years, Professor Hobbs worked in the interest of Indian Education in 
                                North Carolina
                             and 
                                Tennessee
                            . For the enterprise undertaken by the Friends with
                            reference to the descendants of aborigines in those states he has
                            secured the sanction and aid of the government. He made an enumeration
                            of the Cherokees of the reservation and determined their share of
                            apportionments of revenue authorized by the  general congress—which share had
                            been diverted from its purpose by errors and frauds. Professor Hobbs was
                            noted as a clear and forcible speaker, a logical thinker and graceful
                            writer. No member of the Society of Friends in this country was so
                            widely known.
                        He leaves a widow and six children—William H. Hobbs of 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; Mrs. D. W. Stark of 
                                Rockville
                            ; Mrs. W. L. McMillin of 
                                Chicago
                            ; Mrs. T. C. Trueblood of 
                                Ann Arbor
                            , Mich.; D. Y. Hadley of Las Cruses, N. M.; and Fowell B.
                            Hobbs of Bloomingdale.
                    
            
            The 
                        Rockville
                    
                    Republican on the death of Mr. Hobbs published the following
                    news article and tribute: 
                        The death of Dr. Barnabas C. Hobbs occured last Wednesday afternoon and
                            came much sooner than was expected, though fears were entertained that
                            his sickness would be fatal. He went to Michigan for relief but did not
                            obtain it and was brought to his home in Blooming-dale on Monday. He
                            rapidly failed until the end came. After an attack of the grip some
                            months since, he was further depressed by the action of the Bloomingdale
                            meeting, charging him with teaching false doctrine, and the many attacks
                            that have been made on him in one way and another by those who were not
                            worthy to unlatch his shoes. Yellow jaundice was the final cause of his
                            death.
                        Professor Hobbs, as he was more familiarly known, was one of the best
                            known men of the Society of Friends in the world; he was head of the
                            Bloomingdale meeting and was a man of unusual attainments. He was a ripe
                            scholar, a man of stern and uncompromising integrity, and a good man in
                            every sense. Many of the younger generation of men in Parke county, and
                            particularly those of the Friends church, were under him while he was
                            principal of the Bloomingdale academy and remember him with reverence
                            and good will. Any one of them who has followed in his footsteps is
                            today a good man without doubt. His influence was wholesome at all
                            times. These school sons of his rise up and call him blessed.
                        He was a stately gentleman of the old school, kind and courteous, grave,
                            as became a man of his position, but with a keen sense of humor. Like
                            all of his church during the war he was an uncomprising Republican and
                            stood for his country at all times. He did not desert his party but
                            maintained its principles to the close of his life. For this, much fault
                            was found with him by those who thought he ought to join another party.
                            But he was doubtless as conscientious in his belief as they were in
                            theirs. Professor Hobbs occupied many positions of honor and usefulness
                            in his long life, as may be seen by the biographical sketch printed in
                            this issue. In all these he was equal to the occasion, doing his work
                            modestly and promptly and with a high regard for duty.
                        The funeral, which took place at nine o'clock Saturday morning
                            at Bloomingdale church, was largely attended, not only by people from
                            the vicinity, but by numbers abroad. Persons were present from 
                                Richmond
                            , 
                            
                        Terre Haute, Rockville
                      and other places.
                            The funeral discourse was preached by President J. J. Mills of Earlham
                            college. It was a most praiseworthy effort and received the highest
                            encomiums of those present. Prayer and remarks were made by Mr. Allen
                            Jay of 
                                Richmond
                            , and remarks by President Parsons of the State Normal
                            school, Professor McGaggert of the same school and Mrs. Mattie Curl
                            Dennis of Earlham college.
                        The interment took place in the Bloomingdale cemetery.
                    
            
            On Sunday, after the death of Barnabas C. Hobbs which occurred Wednesday June 22,
                    1892, a memorial service in his honor was held at the Friend's church
                    in Bloomingdale, at three o'clock p. m. It is said "that
                    friends and acquaintances, those who had known the distinguished educator for
                    more than a quarter of a century, as well as those who had seen him only in the
                    last years of his life, the governor of the state, members of the 
                        Rockville
                     bar, ministers of varied denominations, his former students now
                    middle aged men and women, Sunday school teachers and scholars, citizens and
                    strangers," formed the assembly, paying public tribute to his
                    abilities, his exalted character and his eminent services to the church and
                    state.
            Among the speakers of the afternoon was Governor Ira J. Chase, who said he came
                    to represent the state and also to pay his tribute of respect to the memory of
                    the deceased, as a friend. Governor Chase spoke of the services of Dr. Hobbs in
                    behalf of peace among nations and his labors in behalf of the Indians. These
                    topics were outstanding points in his address. The Hon. Thomas N. Rice delivered
                    a noble eulogy, in which his intellectual abilities, and moral character were
                    clearly set out. Mr. Rice made special mention of the valuable services of
                    Professor Hobbs in perfecting the school laws of Indiana and establishing our
                    present school system. He said that hardly a measure had passed the legislature
                    in reference to our common schools but had first received the examination and
                    sanction of Barnabas C. Hobbs.
            In regard to the life and work of her distinguished father, Mrs. Carolyn H.
                    Trueblood, wife of Professor T. C. Trueblood of 
                  Ann Arbor, Michigan
               , says: 
                        My father visited personally every public school in Indiana twice while
                            he was in the position of superintendent of public inetruction. He  did not leave this to others as
                            many other superintendents did. In this way he was very helpful to young
                            teachers. He saw the great need of a first class normal school and
                            advocated the building of such a school. Thus, the Normal School of 
                                Terre Haute
                             was started. He was always a strong advocate of the higher
                            education of woman and through him or his influence Bryn Mawr college
                            was opened up.
                        In his lifetime he was given at different times three degrees of L. L. D.
                            He was probably the greatest scholar of Bible literature in any
                            Friend's church. He was a man who always lived and thought
                            ahead of his time. This is the reason many at Bloomingdale failed to
                            appreciate him or rather failed to understand him. This is why some of
                            them claimed he preached "unsound doctrine," because
                            he so often preached from the Old Testament. They thought he should
                            confine himself to the New Testament.
                        I remember, now, that when in California some years ago Allen Jay told me
                            of his being in 
                                Washington
                            , D. C., when an eminent 
                                German
                             professor of education, who had been sent to the 
                                United States
                             to examine our schools, gave a lecture on public schools
                            and a friend asked him if he would not like to go and hear it. He went.
                            The professor said in his lecture that the best public schools in the U.
                            S. were in Indiana and made so by a man named Barnabas Hobbs. This was
                            interesting to me on account of it coming from a 
                                German
                            , a stranger and foreigner.
                        My father's ambition for a better education was so great, he
                            left his home and went to 
                                Cincinnati
                             and then to teach in a Friend's Academy at
                                    
                        Mt. Pleasant,
                                    Ohio
                     , where
                            my mother was living and where he met and married her. Father was always
                            dignified and mother was a young, bright, happy girl. Father was
                            twenty-eight years old when he married my mother who was twenty-four
                            year old. When he brought her to 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, to take charge of the academy there, The first
                            time he took her to meeting an old friend came to him and told him he
                            was ashamed of him to marry such a pretty young girl. My father asked
                            him how old he thought my mother was and he replied: "Not more
                            than sixteen, if that old." "Well," said
                            father, "she is twenty-four," but the man would not
                            believe it. Mother always looked younger than her years. Father was
                            slender and delicate but by careful living, taking regular exercises, he
                            grew stronger With the years. His eyes were blue gray, his hair a very
                            light, almost yellow, and at sixteen years it began to turn white and
                            was all white at twenty years of age. I am the only one of the family
                            who inherited this white hair and I have had white hair since I was
                            twenty years old. Neither of us ever was gray. He was five feet, eleven
                            and one-half inches tall and until his later years was very slender.
                            While father always carried his dignity, he enjoyed a joke as well as
                            any one.
                    
            
            
            An idea of his obedience and respect to his parents and his filial duties are
                    related of Dr. Hobbs in a reminiscent story by his nephew, C. M. Hobbs of 
                        Plainfield
                    , Indiana: 
                        Uncle Barnabas said it was his job when a boy to get his mother to fifth
                            day meeting, she being stout and very fleshy. Barnabas would hitch an ox
                            to the cart and back up to a high door. His mother would waddle in and
                            they would drive off.
                    
            
            He recalls another incident, thus: 
                        Uncle Barnabas told me that on one of his trips abroad, he concluded that
                            he (Barnabas) would like to imitate Gladstone and take a coach that
                            carried the workmen out of 
                                London
                            , that he might learn what they were thinking and talking
                            about. So on going out to call on his friend Bevon Braithwaite a
                            prominent Friend and Councellor to the Queen, he took a coach filled
                            with workingmen, smoking their pipes and using the weed generally. And
                            of course his clothing became thoroughly infected with the fumes of
                            tobacco. When he arrived and was met at the door by his friend, Bevon
                            remarked, "Why Barnabas has been smoking."
                    
            
            Reviewing the history of his uncle's family, C. M. Hobbs, speaks of this
                    great uncle, William Hobbs (father of B. C. Hobbs) a minister of the Friend
                    church at Blue River and an ardent friend of peace who was one of the promoters
                    and officials in the 
                        Salem
                     Peace society, which had its origin in the Blue River
                    Friends' church at a meeting held the 19th of the 12th month 1818 and
                    quotes the following paragraph from the minutes of the Western Yearly Meeting
                    held at 
                        Plainfield
                    , Indiana, (Sixty years later) ninth month, 14th day, 1877:
            This meeting with the unity and approbation of Bloomingdale Monthly and Quarterly
                    Meetings liberate Barnabas C. Hobbs to pay a religious visit to Great Britain, 
                        Ireland
                     and the continent of Europe. This visit was accomplished the next
                    year. On this visit Barnabas presented personally to the crowned heads of
                    Europe, a memorial on peace. The Czar of Russia at that time was Alexander 11.
                    His son the late Czar called the first World's Peace Conference at The
                    Hague. Mr. Hobbs concludes with this query, "It would be interesting to
                    know whether the 
                        Salem
                     Peace Society had any connection with this event?"
            
            Professor James G. May of 
                        Salem
                    , that prince of early and pioneer school masters of 
                        Washington county
                     and southern Indiana, in an historical article on the Blue River
                    academy in the 
                  
                            Washington County
                         History published in 1884 pays this tribute to Hobbs:
                        
                        Place that man in the most uninviting log cabin and give him boys and
                            girls, young men and women to teach and his school will be a first class
                            college. In a haw-patch he would teach every thing and teach it
                        well.
                    
            
            Perhaps the last visit of Barnabas Hobbs to 
                        Salem
                     and his native county was the occasion of the Old
                    Settler's annual meeting, August 9, 1883, when he gave an address on
                    the life of John I. Morrison. This was an elaborate and memorable speech. The 
                        Salem
                    
                    Democrat, the week following (issue of August 15, 1883) says
                    that he was listened to with marked attention. He was described then
                    "as quite a venerable gentleman but well preserved for his
                    age." He spent two or three days with relatives and friends and on
                    Sunday evening during his stay "he lectured at the Presbyterian church
                    on the Bible to an appreciative audience."
            Barnabas Hobbs labored not with an eye to fame but for the benefaction of mankind
                    and the uplift of humanity. His voice and pen were ever busy. In preaching,
                    teaching, writing and other avenues of life, he achieved success and benefits
                    not only for his day and age but for generations coming and yet to come. In
                    closing this memoir, one of the dearest thoughts to his heart as expressed in
                    the last paragraph in the chapter on Indiana School days is a ringing keynote
                    today and is well worth repeating: 
                        Men and nations are as they are taught. As a people elevate and sustain
                            their educators so will their educators be found, in turn, the great
                            instrumentality which brings them intelligence, freedom and prosperity,
                            and peace and in the end true glory and honor.
                    
            
            So to perpetuate and honor his name as teacher, minister, lecturer, scholar and
                    educator, we weave together and preserve this little paper as a chaplet of
                    flowers and dedicate it to his memory.
         
         
         
            Indiana's Blind
            By IDA HELEN MCCARTY, Pennville
            The State School for the Blind, is in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and is now 75 years old. Here can be accommodated 125 pupils, 16
                    teachers, and other officers to the number of 54 persons. This is not a
                    charitable institution, but for educational purposes only; and the cost to the
                    state, per capita, is $568.83.
            Children over eight or under 21, if passing health requirements, may be admitted;
                    and 12 years are required for graduation. The outline of work in this School for
                    Blind is as nearly like that of our common schools as it is possible to make it.
                    The character of this school at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the work accomplished here is very similar to that of any blind
                    school of any other state.
            The text-books are in 
                        New York
                     Point, except in grades 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 in which the revised
                    Braille, grade 1 1/2 has been introduced.
            Much attention is given to memorizing work, typewriting, Sloyd (desk manual
                    training), and a 45 minute period of each day is devoted to reading aloud from
                    standard authors.
            There are four departments, Literary, Music, Industrial and Physical Training.
                    Forty credits are required for graduation from the first two departments, and
                    all students must take a certain amount of work in the other two.
            Chorus classes are required throughout the year, and is the most general division
                    of the Music department. There are classes in Voice, Piano, Organ, String and
                    Wind instruments, Recital and Chapel work, and History and Composition.
            In the Manual Training department are taught many of the useful arts and trades
                    that, in later life, will enable graduates to become skilfully and gainfully
                    employed; to take their places alongside other graduates of our public schools.
            In several states a fee of $100.00 is given each graduate of this
                    department, (if his circumstances warrant it), with which to purchase tools and
                    material. This would enable him to start in business for himself, thus
                    eliminating a great deal of  anxiety.
                    Several attempts have been made to establish a fund to assist our worthy blind,
                    after graduation; but, in Indiana, this is not settled, as yet. It is to be
                    hoped that philanthropic friends of this institution will make this part of such
                    a worthy cause a permanent arrangement.
            As a result of the efficient work done in our School for Blind, many of its
                    graduates are encouraged to take up higher education. What a stupendous task,
                    when one considers all the handicaps. What an amount of ambition, pluck and
                    patience must be behind a resolve like that: though blind, to complete a College
                    course! How many of us, in like condition, would attempt it?
            There are in Indiana university, at the present time, three students who have
                    passed under the careful training of Mr. George S. Wilson, for 25 years the
                    superintendent and director of Indiana's School for Blind. These
                    students are doing excellent work, and merit worthy mention, according to the
                    secretary of Indiana university.
            They are: Everett Addington of Farmland who is tuning pianos to help defray his
                    expenses, and who has been honored with a political office in his county; Russel
                    Ray Judd of 
                        Evansville
                    , totally blind, also tuning pianos; Jaunita Schardt of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , totally blind.
            A thorough search of the colleges of Indiana rewards us with other students: Ray
                    Johnson is attending Chiropractor college at 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Morris Field is with the Indiana University extension; Dean
                    Ferguson is attending the 
                        Terre Haute
                     State Normal; Ella Jeannette Slutz came from Ohio State university
                    School for Blind and attended 
                        Butler
                     college 1917-18, and also attended College for Missions, near 
                        Butler
                    ; Mr. Arthur G. Henkel of Rock Springs, 
                        Wyoming
                    , attended 
                        Valparaiso
                     university in 1915, taking Preparatory work leading to the study of
                    Law. According to President Bowman, "he was a student of unusual
                    intelligence and remarkable working ability."
            Each blind student of a university in Indiana is now furnished with a reader, at
                    'the expense of the state.
            Another force for the betterment of the condition of our Indiana blind is the
                    Industrial Aid for Blind, a state institution.  This aims to meet the adult blind, all over the
                    state, in their own homes. In this way busy mothers (blind) who cannot leave
                    their families or their work, may be taught to read raised type, and thus become
                    able to use books and periodicals from the State Library. They are taught to do
                    sewing, crocheting, knitting, rug and basket-making, and other useful arts.
            Adult male blind are taught chair-caning, rug-weaving, broom-making,
                    brush-making, mop-making, and needle-craft. As broom-making is more arduous than
                    rug or basket-weaving, the very aged blind are taught the latter arts.
            In connection with this work, field agents canvass the state, seeking out the
                    blind who are eager for instruction, especially lessons in hygiene and
                    home-making.
            Mr. C. D. Chadwick, the executive secretary of the Industrial Aid for the Blind
                    reports 1,922 calls made in 1922. Of these 519 were for the purpose of
                    instruction.
            Once or twice each year is held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     a sale of articles made by the blind of our state. The Federated
                    Womens' Clubs of Indiana have charge of these bazaars, and the money
                    realized is given to the persons who did the work.
            The first blind man in Indiana to finish a college course was Fred Morton
                    McCartney, totally blind, having been left so from measles contracted when he
                    was 17 months old. He was born at Flat Rock, 
                        Shelby county
                    , Indiana, 1887, and was one among eight children. He entered the
                    State School for Blind when he was 6 1/2 years old, beginning in the
                    kindergarten.
            He was still in the lower grades when Mr. Wilson took charge of the school (1898)
                    and Mr. McCartney, in his story of his life, avers that he will always remember
                    Mr. Wilson for getting him started right in his school career.
            Fred McCartney completed the four years high school course in three years, by
                    working at his books all vacation and taking examinations in the Fall. He
                    specialized in the Literary department, carrying piano-tuning, Sloyd and some
                    music.
            In 1909 he entered Indiana university. He was the pioneer in this field, and of
                    course had no reader. His only assets were 
                    ambition and grit; piano-tuning was the only thing he could do to help buy
                    books, pay fees, and other college expenses; and his parents and friends were
                    skeptical about his being able to compete with the sighted.
            He was a problem to the university, and a puzzle to himself, the solving of which
                    made many of the professors rub their heads and think. Where to place him, and
                    what to do with him? He was the topic for discussion at many a faculty meeting.
                    He groped about for several weeks trying to find a place to anchor. Never once
                    did he despair or falter. He says he knew he would find some way out of his
                    dilemma, for his yearning for a college education was so strong.
            Realizing, at last, that this young man really meant to do just what he had
                    undertaken, his parents moved to Blooming-ton, the better to aid him. (Even yet
                    they doubted the outcome of such an unheard of venture.)
            At this time the story of Helen Keller was fresh in the minds of everyone and
                    Fred McCartney thought that he, with fewer handicaps than she, might try the
                    college course. So he secured the necessary readers, at his own and his
                    fathers's expense, engaged work in piano-tuning, and thus started on
                    his freshman year.
            But right in the very beginning he met a stumbling block in mathematics. After
                    much consultation, the professors permitted him to substitute American Poetry
                    and Psychology, both of which were his favorite subjects. He signed up for all
                    the other required subjects, and, in addition, took 
                        German
                     and French.
            All his notes, note-books, themes, examinations, were prepared on an ordinary
                    typewriter, after having the keyboard fitted with the French accent marks, and
                    the 
                        German
                     Umlaut.
            In 1910 he successfully passed the state teachers's examination for
                    grades, and for High School English, and later, History. He took a course in
                    Astronomy, under Professor Cogshall, and found the study most fascinating. He
                    was especially fond of Professor Lindley, Psychology; and of Professor
                    Stephenson, English.
            
            In 1912 he received his A.B. degree. The following year he enrolled for the A.M.
                    degree, with Psychology as his research subject. He won his second degree in
                    1914.
            Mr. McCartney was married in 1914. In 1918 he went to 
                        Cincinnati
                     as piano-tuner with the Werner Industries Company where he remained
                    until 1921.
            At present he is with the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Board of Education.
            Fred McCartney, overcoming all obstacles, spent six years in hard work at Indiana
                    university. He says his dreams of usefulness have not been realized. However
                    that may be, he has set an example for the other blind of our state, and of
                    other states. His was the great task, and with infinite patience he kept at it.
                    It is not a glorious thing he has done, but, nevertheless he deserves what he
                    literally carved, by dint of hard chiseling: Fred McCartney, Indiana's
                    first blind college graduate—1912.
            The first blind woman in Indiana to complete a college course was Lola Lydia
                    Walling, born in the village of Pennville, Jay county, Indiana, December 20,
                    1892. Her mother, Josephine Underwood Walling, was the daughter of Isaac
                    Underwood, farmer, merchant, manufacturer, treasurer of Jay county, state
                    representative, and state senator. He was a Master 
                        Mason
                    , a Good Templar and a leader in the 
                        Quaker
                     Church.
            Lola's father, Lewis Grissell Walling, was the grandson of the founder
                    of the tom of Pennville, sometimes known as Camden and New 
                        Lisbon
                    . The Grisells were all Hicksite Friends. Lewis Walling was a
                    druggist and a farmer.
            So it was in a home that used the plain language of thee and thou that this
                    beautiful brown-eyed maiden, bearing the name so beloved of all Quakers, Lydia,
                    was born. And if ever a child was born with the silver spoon, this girl was the
                    subject of our sketch. She was the idol of all her relatives and they were a
                    goodly array of worthy, enterprising citizens. Not only was she lovely of face,
                    but she was lovable of disposition, talented and industrious.
            The Walling home was noted for culture and refinement and its many social
                    gatherings. It was a great, rambling house of twenty rooms, a wing of which was
                    used by grandfather  and grandmother
                    Underwood. Here, the golden-haired girl spent many happy hours listening to
                    stories told by her aged grandfather, and in watching the process of
                    cookie-making bread and pie-making, in which the grandmother was always engaged.
            The great, old-fashioned attic was also one of her favorite places; for here were
                    stored treasures of trunk, of chest, box, and drawer, the relics of many
                    generations of Grisells, Wallings and Underwoods. Many of the things here had
                    been brought from "way back east." This attic was typical of
                    the many attics of the old town.
            The library, too, was a place where the child spent many hours; for here were the
                    large oil paintings, the portraits of her ancestors, gazing down at her from
                    their great gold frames. Here, too, were the cases of specimens and relics that
                    had been continuously in her father's family for more than a century.
                    Often she had been tempted to open those glass cases and to take out the
                    cherished specimens; but there was ever the strict admonition of her father
                    checking that desire. It was this: "Lola, thee must not look with thy
                    fingers, look with thy eyes."
            In after years those words were to be vividly recalled by all the family: Thee
                    must not look with thy fingers. It was literally the very thing that she was
                    forced to do. When Lola was just beginning the eighth grade she had an attack of
                    the Grippe which lasted many weeks. When she recovered from this, it was found
                    that she was semi-blind. All that medical skill could do was tried; but of no
                    avail. She is, today, unable to read; or to do close work of any kind, though
                    she distinguishes faces and objects, and travels everywhere unaided.
            Although the shock of this misfortune was terrible for the parents, the mother,
                    with true heroism, set to work. She was determined that Lola should have the
                    education that now seemed so unattainable. The living-room of the Walling home
                    was converted into a class-room, provided with black-boards, charts, maps,
                    globes, and all things pertaining to school work.
            So carefully and thoroughly did this mother instruct the daughter that, although
                    she was present in the public school  but a
                    few days of the nine month session, she was enabled to finish with her class, at
                    the eighth grade commencement, carrying off first honors; in fact taking highest
                    rank in Penn township, and second highest in Jay county.
            During the vacation Lola continued her piano lessons under competent instruction
                    of Mrs. Nellie Place Chandler and Mrs. Edna Line Gordon. The notes being read to
                    her, then played for her, she quickly memorized them. Even at that age, she was
                    considered a very remarkable pianist. Mrs. Gordon has often declared that Lola
                    Walling was the aptest music pupil she ever found.
            Lola entered the School for Blind at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , taking the literary course. She had to acquire the point system,
                    and accustom herself to this new mode of living in a community of Mind, where
                    lights at night were not a necessity, as the inmates walked by remembering each
                    detail of the building; and where looking with the fingers was the only way.
            She spent five years here, not only taking the piano instruction which the school
                    afforded, but having a private teacher as well. Her musical instruction now was
                    in the point system.
            Lola's mother had learned point and typing, and was enabled to keep up a
                    correspondence with her which was very encouraging and helpful; and lessened the
                    homesickness from which she sometimes suffered. She graduated on the honor roll.
            Now came a time for decision. Lola wished to go to college. There was but one way
                    to accomplish this, and with her wonted unselfishness the mother disposed of the
                    matter. She would go to college with her daughter.
            Mrs. Walling's brother, Charles Underwood, was professor of sacred
                    history at 
                        Butler
                     college. The mother and daughter decided to attend 
                        Butler
                    . Accordingly she arranged her household affairs in the little home
                    town and, taking her son Kenneth, now in high school, the three of them became
                    domiciled in 
                        Irvington
                    .
            Lola registered at 
                        Butler
                     college, and the mother began her duties of reader, secretary,
                    critic, housekeeper and companion for the daughter in college, and the son in
                    high school.
            
            Every book that was required of her, each lesson, each reference, extra line of
                    work, examination, theme, was attended to by this careful mother. Eyes and soul
                    she was striving to help the girl who had been deprived of her vision. How well
                    she succeeded has been proven.
            Lola completed the four years' course, majoring in English, and she was
                    one of the honor graduates of 1917. The mother, having had only the advantages
                    of the common schools, returned to the village of Pennville with a college
                    education. True, she did not receive a parchment and her name w88 never on any
                    roll of honor or engraven on cup or medal. But with Cornelia of old, she had
                    proven that her children were her jewels, and as such she considered that no
                    sacrifice was too great for their sakes. Modestly she slipped back home, and
                    into her old place among her neighbors.
            After completing the course at 
                        Butler
                     Miss Walling continued piano instruction under the best professors,
                    and is now prepared to give recitals. When at home she assists in home talents,
                    club and church and lodge programs. Her name is always a drawing card, but she
                    is very modest and prefers to play for her home folks and the old family
                    friends.
            For four years she has been a teacher in the School for Deaf and Blind at Cedar
                    Spring, 
                        South Carolina
                    , where she has endeared herself to all, and where her talents have
                    added much to cheer the pupils who are found there.
         
         
         
            Historical News
            BY INDIANA HISTORICAL COMISSION
            
            Upon invitation of the county superintendents of public schools of 
                        Boone
                    , Grant, 
                  Fulton, St. Joseph
               , Carroll and Dekalb
                    counties, the subject of state and local history was presented to the teachers
                    in connection with the regular sessions of the county teachers'
                    institute, Harlow Lindley, director of the Indiana Historical Commission,
                    speaking before the first five and B. J. Griswold of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     in Dekalb county.
            Dr. John W. Oliver, who had been director of the Indiana Historical commission
                    since 1918, tendered his resignation in May to accept the headship of the
                    department of history in the University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . To take his place as director, the Indiana Historical commission
                    has chosen Prof. Harlow Lindley, who has been head of the department of history
                    in Earlham college for a number of years. He has also been director of the
                    department of history and archives, and secretary of the Indiana Historical
                    commission since their creation.
            Esther U. McNitt, assistant in the department of history and archives of the
                    State library, has been made director of the department, and as such becomes the
                    ex-officio member of the Indiana Historical commission.
            The Society of Indiana Pioneers and the members of the Indiana Historical Society
                    made a pilgrimage to 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     and the surrounding historical region June 14-15.
            Plans are well under way for the annual all-state history conference which will
                    be held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     at the Claypool hotel, Friday and Saturday, December 7 and 8. The
                    annual meeting of the Indiana Historical society will be held Friday forenoon
                    followed by a membership luncheon. The program of the afternoon will be devoted
                    to state historical work emphasizing  the
                    state historical and archeological survey, and historical work in the schools.
                    An historical pageant is planned for the Friday evening session and the history
                    section of the Indiana State Teachers' association will prepare the
                    program for Saturday forenoon. There will be a session Saturday afternoon and
                    the conference will close with the annual dinner and meeting of the Society of
                    Indiana Pioneers.
            On Sunday, July 1, there was rededicated in the 
                        Turkey
                     Run state park the old Bristle Ridge log church which had been
                    moved from its original site four miles north of 
                        Turkey
                     Run. The old church has been restored just as it originally stood
                    and is now a part of the state property, dedicated as an open undenominational
                    church.
            The Paul Dresser memorial incorporated for the purpose of erecting a suitable
                    memorial to the writer of our state song, is making an appeal to all citizens of
                    the state to contribute a small sum for the early accomplishment of the project.
                    The 
                        United States
                     Trust Company of 
                        Terre Haute
                     has been designated to receive contributions.
            During the summer months six historical pageants have been prepared and given in
                    Indiana. The first of these was presented at 
                  Rockport, Spencer
                    county
               , July 26, and was written and directed by Mrs. C. D.
                    Ehrman, secretary of the Southwestern historical society of Indiana and curator
                    of the 
                        Spencer County
                     historical society. The title of the pageant was "The
                    Hanging Rock," being the original name for 
                        Rockport
                    . The pageant was divided into eight scenes or episodes.
            On August 3 at 
                        Centerville
                     was given the pageant entitled "The Call of Oliver P.
                    Morton," which has been mentioned in connection with the Morton
                    centennial celebration.
            August 16 was the date of the pageant presented at Tipton on home-coming day
                    under the auspices of the 
                        Tipton County
                     historical society. The pageant depicted faithfully the main events
                    in the history of the county and was written by Marie Purvis, assistant
                    librarian of the Tipton Public library.
            
            On the grounds of the Friends church at 
                        Mooresville
                     on the evening of August 18 there was given a pageant entitled
                    "The Spirit of Faith." It was the centennial pageant of White
                    Lick meeting of Friends and was written by a committee under the direction of
                    Clara Sellars and was directed by Miss Sellars. Not only was the history of this
                    particular meeting presented, but it gave a true picture of the history of
                    Quakerism in Indiana.
            
               
                        Randolph county
                    's historical pageant, written by Esther Janett Simon, was
                    given at Funk's park, two miles west of 
                        Winchester
                    , on the evening of August 30. Almost one thousand persons took part
                    in the pageant, and about five thousand people witnessed the presentation.
            As a prelude to the annual home-coming at New 
                        London
                    , Ind., a pageant written by Violetta Cosand and Lilith Farlow was
                    presented Saturday evening, September 1, the history of New 
                        London
                     in a series of episodes that carried the development of the
                    community from the first settlement to the present time.
            August 4 witnessed the centenary celebration of the birth of Oliver P. Morton,
                    Indiana's first native born governor. The event was celebrated at
                            
                  Terre Haute, Tipton, Indianapolis
               , and 
                        Centerville
                    , the celebration at the latter place being the one elaborate event
                    in this connection and was shared in by 
                        Wayne county
                     generally and by people from all over the state, Governor Morton
                    having been born in 
                        Wayne county
                     near 
                        Centerville
                     and having spent his life there until he became governor. Among
                    those making addresses were Governor Warren T. McCray, Ex-Governor Goodrich,
                    Senator James E. Watson and William Dudley Foulke, Morton's biographer.
                    A pageant entitled "The Call of Oliver P. Morton" written and
                    directed by Bessie Buhl of 
                        Centerville
                     was presented in a very successful way.
            Under the active leadership of Dr. P. G. Moore, president of the 
                        Wabash County
                     historical society, 106 members have been added to the Indiana
                    historical Society.
            
            The 
                        Putnam County
                     historical society was organized June 27 with Jesse W. Weik as
                    president and Prof. W. W. Sweet as secretary. The society prepares to observe in
                    an appropriate manner the one hundredth anniversary of the founding of 
                        Greencastle
                    .
            On August 28 following an address before the Dekalb County teachers'
                    institute by B. J. Griswold, of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , on local history, there was organized a Dekalb County historical
                    society with Dr. W. F. Shoemaker of 
                        Butler
                     as president, and Jay F. Olinger of 
                        Auburn
                     as secretary.
            Early in the summer the Indiana Historical Commission issued Bulletin No. 17, containing the proceedings of the Fourth annual
                    conference on Indiana history.
            The distribution of volume IX of the Indiana Historical
                    Collections, being volume 2 of Esarey's Governor's Messages and Letters, was made in July. The
                    volume, comprising 772 pages, covers the period of 1812-1816, completing the
                    territorial period.
            In August the Indiana Historical Commission published volume X of its Collections entitled A Sergeant's
                    Diary by Elmer F. Straub, a daily diary kept by an Indiana man who served
                    in the 138th Field Artillery during the World war. The volume contains 156
                    pages.
         
      
   
