
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 92, Issue 2, pages 109-194. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:92+issue:2+year:1996&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            A Forgotten Hero Remembered, Revered, and Revised: The Legacy and Ordeal of George Rogers Clark
            
                    James Fisher
                    ∗
                
            Perhaps because writing a biography of George Rogers Clark may be hazardous to one's health,
                    no writer since 1957 has undertaken the task. Of the five serious candidates for such an undertaking
                    before 1890, three died unexpectedly. One was killed in the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , another in a quarrel over abolition in 1842, and the last and most famous, Lyman C.
                    Draper, suffered a stroke in 1891 and died shortly thereafter. The other two became disillusioned
                    with the project and gave up. Throughout most of the nineteenth century, Clark lacked a biographer.
                    Not until the 1890s did biographers both consider Clark worthy of attention and survive to write
                    about him.1
            
            This essay first examines and critiques the historians who restored Clark to national attention by
                    writing biographies that reflected Draper's approach to the war hero: "I have long
                    learned to reverence him as I never have any other public character."2
                    Second, it offers a new interpretation of Clark's life. Incorporating recent research on
                    the Revolutionary frontier and the early nation, this second part presents Clark as a frontier
                    republican. As a republican, he believed in disinterested gentry leadership, shared some of the
                    founding generation's estrangement from American society, and spent his last years pursuing
                    enlightened intellectual interests and informing the East about the West.
            Clark was born on November 19, 1752, in 
                        Albemarle County
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    . He and his family later moved to 
                        Caroline County
                    , where he spent the next fourteen years. With little formal education, he was hired as
                    a surveyor in 1771, and for the following three years surveyed 
                        Kentucky
                     lands. He served as a captain in Lord Dun- 
                  
                     ∗ James Fisher is a doctoral candidate and an University
                            Fellow at 
                                Kent
                             State University. He is writing a dissertation on the Shawnees in early
                            America. He wishes to thank William H. Kenney, Robert P. Swierenga, Juneann Klees, and the
                                Indiana Magazine of History's anonymous readers and editorial
                            staff for criticism and suggestions. The illustrations in this article are taken from
                            William E. Wilson, Big Knife: The Story of George Rogers Clark (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 54, 92, 237, 234.
                  
                     1 Louise Phelps Kellogg, "The Early Biographers of George
                            Rogers Clark," American Historical Review, XXXV (January, 1930),
                            295-302.
                  
                     2 Lyman Draper quoted in Temple Bodley, The Life and
                                Public Service of George Rogers Clark (
                                New York
                            , 1926), 377.
               
                     more's War, and in 1777 he secured 
                        Virginia
                     Governor Patrick Henry's approval to attack the British and Indians in the
                        Ohio Valley. Clark captured the French towns of the American bottom in
                    1778, lost 
                        Vincennes
                    , then undertook his famous winter march through the flooded 
                        Wabash
                     region to recapture 
                        Vincennes
                     in early 1779. Although he wished to attack 
                        Detroit
                     and was commissioned brigadier general in 
                        Virginia
                    's militia to that end, he lacked the men and munitions to do so. He repulsed
                    British and Indian assaults on Spanish, French, and American posts along the Mississippi
                        River in 1780, and his last major battles were against the Shawnees in 1780 and 1782.
            After the war, Clark worked briefly as a surveyor and as an 
                        United States
                     Indian commissioner. But, for drawing goods on 
                        Virginia
                    's name, he was constantly hounded by creditors when the state refused to pay
                    its debt on the grounds that his receipts were fraudulent. In part to acquire lands to satisfy these
                    debts, on four separate occasions he intrigued with foreign nations and adventurers about the
                    possibility of seizing 
                        Louisiana
                     and the Yazoo lands and establishing American colonies. Clark spent his final years
                    living in a cabin built oppos'ite 
                        Louisville
                     on the Ohio River until a stroke and amputation forced him to live
                    with his sister in 
                        Louisville
                    , where he died on February 13, 1818.
            The first attempt to describe and evaluate Clark came from the general himself, despite some initial
                    reluctance. At the urging of 
                        Kentucky
                     Congressman John Brown, Clark wrote his memoirs, probably in 1791. In addition to his
                    recollections, Clark drew information from his diary and journal and the journal of one of his
                    captains. Unfortunately, he did not use a forty-page letter he had written to George Mason in 1779,
                    a letter in which he had described his 
                        Illinois
                     campaign. The memoirs never saw publication during Clark's lifetime, and
                    extracts began to appear only in the 1830s.3
            
            One may read the memoirs in three related ways. First, the manuscript is a "life
                    document," in which Clark described what he considered the key events of his life. While
                    occasionally factually unreliable, the text displays the author's understanding of himself.
                    For Clark, the 
                        Vincennes
                     campaign was his defining moment, and his memoirs end abruptly there. Second, the
                    document represents Clark's attempt to establish his credentials. When he wrote the
                    memoirs, his character had already suffered sustained attacks on account of his debts and land
                    schemes. He wrote to salvage his reputation and remind the republic of his service to it. He also
                    expected to establish the terms of future debate on his contributions to the 
                  
                     3 Kellogg, "Early Biographers," 295. Thomas
                            Jefferson, through a 
                                Kentucky
                             judge, also tried to solicit Clark's story. Jefferson to Harry Innes,
                            March 7, 1791, Writings of Thomas Jefferson, ed. Andrew Lipscomb (20
                            vols., 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1903-1907), VIII, 136.
               
                     region's history by reminding posterity of his
                    achievements and selfless service. "I believe, that through myself," he wrote to 
                        Brown
                    , "every thing past, relative to this country may be known."4 Given his later biographers' filiopietism and favorable assessment of
                    the importance of his Revolutionary War service, he succeeded.
            In the 1890s, historians William Hayden English and Consul Wilshire Butterfield began research on
                    Clark. Both were midwest-erners who hoped to stress their region's importance for national
                    history, and both set the major themes of Clark's life for future biographers. The
                    former–distant relative of Clark through marriage, lifelong admirer, politician, and
                    president of the Indiana Historical Society–issued his book in 1896 in an effort to
                    describe the "conquest" of the Old Northwest.5 Butterfield
                    completed his manuscript in the same year, only to find that English had beaten him to the press.
                    Rather than publish his work, Butterfield continued to tinker with it, and it did not appear in
                    print until after his death.6
            
            English heaped accolades on Clark and other Revolutionary Americans throughout his book. Clark fought
                    in the Revolution, English wrote (clearly following the memoirs) because "he could best
                    serve his country by leading a force against the enemy's posts in the 
                        Illinois
                     and on the 
                        Wabash
                    ." Clark was undoubtedly one of "the first men" of his time,
                    "if not, indeed, of any time," and the general's troops represented
                    "the highest type of a hardy and patriotic citizen-soldier." English even managed
                    to smooth over Clark's flirtation with treason in his acceptance of Edmond Genet's
                    commission as a major general in the French army: Clark had joined the French only to "open
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                     to American use."7
            
            English's discussion of Clark's actions and motives and those of the Indians leaves
                    much to be desired. He interpreted Clark's campaign in the 
                        Illinois
                     country as an attempt to close "the open door by which the hostile Indians
                    raided the white settlements" at the instigation of the British at 
                  Detroit, Vincennes,
                            Kaskaskia
               , and Cahokia. English (and all
                    future biographers) did not know that the attacks came from the Shawnees, Delawares, and Mingoes
                    living in 
                  
                     4 Clark to John Brown, July 15, 1790, George Rogers Clark
                                Papers, 1771-1784, ed. James A. James (Collections of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Library; 2 vols., 
                                Springfield
                            , 111., 1912, 1926), I, 622 (hereafter GRCP and volume
                            number); Norman K. Denzin, Interpretive Biography (
                                New York
                            , 1989), 7, 22, 24; Justin Kaplan, "The ‘Real
                            Life,’" in Daniel Aaron, ed., Studies in Biography (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1978), 3-4.
                  
                     5 William Hayden English, Conquest of the Country
                                Northwest of the River Ohio, 1778-1783, and Life of General George
                                Rogers Clark (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1896), I, 9,10, 11. (Since the two volumes are paginated consecutively,
                            further references will be page numbers only.)
                  
                     6 See W. H. Hunter's biographical notes on Butterfield in
                            Consul Wilshire Butterfield, History of George Rogers Clark's Conquest
                                of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 and 
                                    Wabash
                                 Towns, 1778 and 1779 (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1904),
                            ix-xix.
                  
                     7 English, Conquest of the Northwest, 87, 89, 158,
                            818-19.
               
                    
                    
                  LAND WAS SOMETHING TO SETTLE UPON
                the 
                        Ohio
                     country. By making the general's mobilization a defensive tactic, any ulterior
                    motive became irrelevant. English held nothing but disdain for the Indian-British alliance, and he
                    condemned 
                        Hamilton
                     for the "wrong" of employing Indians, whom he described as
                    "more savage than beasts." English avoided the question of Clark's own
                    barbarism by dismissing as "unsupported" Lieutenant General Henry
                    Hamilton's claim that his adversary had ordered the tomahawking of four Indians at the
                    gates of Fort Sackville. Finally, English contradicted himself in assessing Clark's
                    achievements. He claimed that Clark's 1782 raid on the Shawnee towns convinced them
                    "that they had nothing to gain by continuing the contest with the Americans" and
                    "ended forever all formidable Indian invasions of 
                        Kentucky
                    ." Forty-one pages later, English admitted that the attacks continued and
                    resulted in an unsuccessful and illegal effort by Clark in 1786-1787 to subdue the warring Indians,
                    who now also included those along the 
                        Wabash
                    .8
            
            Butterfield's account of the war in the West is quite similar to that of English. Like
                    English, Butterfield gushed praise for Clark and his heroic success "in the face of almost
                    insurmountable obstacles," and he denounced 
                        Hamilton
                     for using Indians. Likewise, Butterfield took Clark's motives as expressed in
                    the memoirs at face value. Clark undertook his campaign of 1778-1779 "to punish the savages
                    of the west for their bloodthirsty marauds." The Indian raids on 
                        Kentucky
                     appalled Butterfield, but he refused to believe that they were of any consequence,
                    because the Indians came in parties of less than fifty, hit "suddenly and quickly
                        disappeared."9
                    
                  
                     8
                     Ibid., 82, 157, 222, 343-44, 759, 796-803.
                  
                     9 Butterfield, Clark's Conquest, v,
                        534-37.
               
                     Apparently Clark had little more to do than discipline pesky
                    gnats. Although he drew upon British sources, Butterfield used them to focus narrowly on troop
                    movements. The British themselves were as nondescript as the Indians.
            In retrospect, one could not expect English and Butterfield to give much attention to the Indians and
                    British. Literary Americans in this era were far more interested in their country's
                    explosive territorial and economic growth. Few historians in the 
                        United States
                     gave much attention to European history generally or English history specifically until
                    around the time English and Butterfield were writing. Most opted instead for the interrelated themes
                    of American exceptionalism and isolation. The English did not play an important role in American
                    historiography (except as oppressive overlords) until the 1880s, when scholars began to focus on the
                    transplantation of Teutonic institutions from Europe via 
                        England
                     to America.10
            
            Although ignored like the British, the Indians had the additional misfortune of being the apparent
                    losers in the struggle for North America. From the point of view of white Americans at the end of
                    the nineteenth century, the Indians were inevitably disappearing before the superior Anglo-Saxon
                    race, a fact confirmed by the so-called Battle of Wounded Knee in 1890. In such a context, it is
                    unsurprising that few historians paid attention to Indian history. Frederick Jackson
                    Turner's doctoral dissertation, "On the Character and Influence of the Indian
                    Trade in 
                        Wisconsin
                    ," was one of the few available historical works incorporating Native
                    Americans. Until at least the 1920s, when cultural pluralism began to replace Social Darwinism as
                    the dominant theory of racial interaction, the Indians remained nonentities for historians. As late
                    as 1952, Bernard DeVoto lamented that "American historians have made shockingly little
                    effort to understand the life, the societies, the cultures, the thinking, and the feelings of
                    Indians, and disastrously little effort to understand how all these affected the white men and their
                        societies."11
            
            Clark's biographers may have slighted the British and Indians, but the general's
                    heroic individualism did not escape them. One hoped to transmit some of Clark's
                    "dauntless spirit" and supreme "self-reliance" to his audience.
                    Another saw in Clark an example of rugged individualism: a "sturdy, forthright"
                    pioneer, "calloused under the lash of hardship" but who ultimately came to 
                  
                     10 John Higham, History: Professional Scholarship in
                                America (updated ed., 
                                Baltimore
                            , 1990), 158-70.
                  
                     11 Frederick Jackson Turner, On the Character and
                                Influence of the Indian Trade in 
                                    Wisconsin
                                
                      (1891; reprint ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1970); DeVoto's introduction to Joseph Kinsey Howard, Strange Empire: A Narrative of the Northwest (
                                New York
                            , 1952), 8-9; Robert F. Berkhofer, Jr., The White Man's
                                Indian: Images of the American Indian from 
                                    Columbus
                                 to the Present (
                                New York
                            , 1978), 176-86.
               
                     the frontier for "freedom,"
                    "solititude," and "peace."12 These were not
                    empty exhortations. Clark's biographers wrote at a time when individuals increasingly
                    seemed irrelevant to powerful, impersonal forces such as industrialization, mass culture,
                    international economics, and politics. Many Americans at the turn of the century developed a crisis
                    of self, a haunting suspicion that political and sociological factors beyond their control directed
                    their lives. This era also saw the closing of the American frontier, which for Frederick Jackson
                    Turner signaled the end of the democratizing West that had ensured American individualism and
                    muffled social unrest. In this anxious time, frontier history offered a way to transmit the value of
                    heroic individualism to Americans who could no longer experience the frontier firsthand.13
            
            As part of the emergence of frontier history, interest in the Old Northwest and Clark increased in
                    the early decades of the twentieth century. Frederick Jackson Turner wrote and edited material on
                    Clark and the Revolutionary West for the American Historical Association Review
                    and Reports. A host of similar materials from Turner's students and
                    colleagues followed.14 In the Midwest, the sesquicentennial of Clark's
                    capture of Fort Sackville inspired parades and pageants in the general's honor, newspaper
                    essays retelling his achievements, and two editions of the memoirs. In 1928, the federal government
                    appropriated nearly $2 million for a memorial to Clark and an educational program about
                    the Revolution in the West at 
                        Vincennes
                    , and the next year Indiana Governor Harry Leslie urged Americans to measure themselves
                    against 
                  
                     12 Ross Lockridge, George Rogers Clark: Pioneer Hero of
                                the Old Northwest (Yonkers-on-Hudson, N. Y., 1927), ix; 
                                Lowell
                             Thomas, The Hero of 
                                    Vincennes
                                : The Story of George Rogers Clark (
                                Boston
                            , 1929); Walter Havighurst would later see in the memoir a "supreme
                            example of courage and accomplishment." Walter Havighurst, George
                                Rogers Clark: Soldier in the West (
                                New York
                            , 1952), 208.
                  
                     13 Robert Wiebe, The Search for Order, 1877-1920 (
                                New York
                            , 1967); Wilfred M. McClay, The Masterless: Self and Society in
                                Modern America (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , 1994), 107-20.
                  
                     14 Frederick Jackson Turner, "Origins of Genet's
                            Projected Attack on 
                                Louisiana
                             and the Floridas," American Historical Review, III
                            (July, 1897), 650-71; Frederick Jackson Turner, ed., "George Rogers Clark and the 
                                Kaskaskia
                             Campaign, 1777-1778," ibid., VIII (April, 1903),
                            491-506; Frederick Jackson Turner, "Correspondence of the French Ministers to the 
                                United States
                            , 1791-1797," Annual Report of the American Historical
                                Society for the Year 1903 (2 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1903), II; Louise P. Kellogg and Reuben G. Thwaites, eds., The Documentary History of Dunmore's War (
                                New York
                            , 1905); Reuben Gold Thwaites, ed., The Revolution on the Upper 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1775-1777 (
                                New York
                            , 1908); Reuben Gold Thwaites, Frontier Defense on the Upper 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1777-1778 (
                                New York
                            , 1912); Louise P. Kellogg, ed., Frontier Advance on the Upper 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1778-1779 (
                                New York
                            , 1916); Louise P. Kellogg, ed., Frontier Retreat on the Upper 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1779-1781 (
                                New York
                            , 1917). Both Kellogg and Thwaites edited, along with Clarence Alvord, documents
                            from the colonial and Revolutionary Northwest for the Collections of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Library and the Collections of the State
                                Historical Society of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                . Thwaites had written an earlier commemorative piece on Clark, How George Rogers Clark Won the Northwest, and Other Essays in Western
                            History (reprint ed., 
                                Freeport
                            , N. Y, 1968), chapter 2.
               
                     Clark's measure of "fearless patriotism and
                        service."15 Reflecting on the public's outpouring of
                    gratitude, five authors produced biographies of Clark in the 1920s.
            Temple Bodley undertook his biography of Clark as a labor of love. A descendant of Clark, Bodley was
                    convinced that his ancestor had been unjustifiably maligned by Theodore Roosevelt in The Winning of the West. Roosevelt had portrayed Clark as "an old man who had
                    squandered his energies and sunk into deserved obscurity."16 Bodley
                    aimed to rehabilitate the general's reputation by detailing "the record truth
                    about him." The "record truth" meant identifying Clark's
                    contribution to American history and his region's importance. Bodley began by stating:
                    "both the winning and the value of American independence hung upon the successful conduct
                    of the war in the West, as well as along the Atlantic seaboard." Without Clark's
                    victories over the British in the West, "American democracy," lacking a frontier,
                    "would have come into the world still-born."17
            
            Bodley's work is marred by several problems. His main sources were Clark's memoirs
                    and the lengthy letter to George Mason. He cited other manuscripts rarely, and published edited
                    works available at the time appear nowhere in his footnotes. In addition, Bodley often forsook prose
                    for lengthy block quotes, some covering three-fourths of entire chapters. His treatment of the
                    British and Indians was simplistic at best. Hamilton was characterized as simply
                    "ruthless," and the Indians were "savages" blocking the
                    expansion of frontier democracy. Finally, the author explained little about Clark's life
                    beyond the Revolution, and the general's final twenty-five years received only sixteen
                        pages.18
            
            Two years later, James A. James, a professor of history at Northwestern University, published his
                    biography of Clark. James based his book largely on his two-volume edition of the George Rogers Clark Papers. James wrote sympathetically of Clark, but not
                    hagiographically. Still, James fell into some of his predecessors' traps. He glorified and
                    overstated the importance of the frontier and the meaning of Clark's campaigns. He did
                    little with the British and Indians, assuming instead ceaseless racial conflict. He also assumed
                    that the Indian attacks came from the 
                        Illinois
                     country. James's biography, however, is preferable to Bodley's (and
                    is 
                  
                     15 For the celebrations and quotation, see John Bodnar, Remaking America: Public Memory, Commemoration, and Patriotism in the Twentieth
                            Century (
                                Princeton
                            , 1992), 123-25. For the memoirs, see George Rogers Clark, Conquest
                                of the 
                                    Illinois
                                
                     , ed. Milo M. Quaife (
                                Chicago
                            , 1920) and George Rogers Clark, Capture of Old Vincennes, ed.
                            Milo M. Quaife (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1927).
                  
                     16 Theodore Roosevelt, The Winning of the West
                            (Standard Library edition; 4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1912), II, 55n. Actually, Roosevelt criticized Clark for using the memoirs to
                            inflate his stature and restore his credibility. See Roosevelt, Winning of the
                                West, 36n, 47n, 57n. Generally, he treated Clark favorably.
                  
                     17 Bodley, George Rogers Clark, vii, xvii, xviii.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., 6, 26, 60-69.
               
                     still one of the two standard accounts of Clark's
                    life) because of James's extensive sources and detailed treatment of Clark's
                    post-Revolutionary life.19
            
            The war on the frontier, James believed, began with the death of the Shawnee chief Cornstalk inside
                    Fort Pitt in 1777. The Shawnees, portrayed as British lackeys, then raided the 
                        Kentucky
                     settlements, where they committed "savage barbarities" against the
                    "heroic band of defenders" who lived in the frontier stations. In response, Clark
                    devised a plan to seize the British-garrisoned French towns in the American bottom, securing the
                    Revolutionary frontier. This decision was the key to Clark's success and "must
                    always stand out as epochal in the history of our nation."20
            
            According to James, Clark's post-Revolutionary life was that of a bitter general, forsaken
                    by his countrymen. Fleeing creditors, Clark transferred most of his property to his brother William
                    (later of the Lewis and Clark expedition) and was forced to live with him for a time. He became
                    involved in several incidents that destroyed his reputation: French plots to seize 
                        Louisiana
                     from the Spanish and a dispute with the notorious intriguer, James Wilkinson, who
                    slandered Clark to the national government. In his last years, "life was at best lonely for
                        him."21
            
            In the same decade, three popular biographies by Ross Lock-ridge, Frederick Palmer, and Lowell Thomas
                    were published. All of them denigrated Indians, ignored or demonized the British, and proudly
                    saluted Clark. For the most part, these biographies are useless for any intelligent modern audience
                    seeking to understand the region and its peoples. Lockridge, father of the prize-winning novelist of
                    the same name, lauded his subject as "a genuine American hero" and ascribed
                    Clark's motives accordingly. Frederick Palmer went even further and compared Clark
                    favorably to Wellington at Waterloo, Caesar in Gaul, and Washington at York-town. Unable to
                    understand anything but warfare, Lockridge claimed, Indians supposedly admired Clark, as they did
                    all great white American military leaders, including Andrew Jackson! Lowell Thomas even debated
                    whether or not the Indians were humans (after a chapter surveying the evidence, he concluded they
                    were). Also, Clark's successes in the 
                        Illinois
                     country ended the Indian threat and marked "the conquest of the
                    West," which Lockridge described as the "conquest of the red children of the
                        forest."22
            
            For the next twenty-one years, Clark returned to historiographical obscurity. In that time, however,
                    two works appeared that should have been clarion calls for future biographers. Ran- 
                  
                     19 James A. James, The Life of George Rogers Clark (
                                Chicago
                            , 1928).
                  
                     20
                     Ibid., 17, 52-53, 57, 111-280, 473.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., 412-73, quotation 457.
                  
                     22 Lockridge, George Rogers Clark: Pioneer Hero, 8,
                            vii, 88, 89; Frederick Palmer, Clark of the 
                                    Ohio
                                : A Life of George Rogers Clark (
                                New York
                            , 1929), vii, 190; Thomas, Hero of 
                                    Vincennes
                                
                     , chapter 8.
               
                    
                    
                  SEEKING THE PROTECTION OF THE STOCKADE AT HARRODSBURG
                dolph Downes and John Barnhart both questioned existing evaluations of the general. In
                    1940, Downes, in his Council Fires on the Upper 
                            Ohio
                        
               , characterized Clark's march into the West as a brief episode in a
                    forty-year struggle between European Americans and Indians for control of the Ohio
                    Valley, a struggle which climaxed at Fallen Timbers. From this view, Clark conquered
                    nothing. Contradicting all Clark biographers, Downes pointed out that "few
                    ‘conquests’ have been followed by such a sudden and complete disappearance of
                    the power of the ‘conquerors’ and of any respect of them among the
                    ‘conquered.’" Heavy-handed in their dealings and unable to serve as
                    adequate trading partners, the Americans drove the Indians into an alliance with the British.23
            
            A decade later, Barnhart further questioned Clark's achievements in a brief article and in
                    the introduction to his edition of 
                        Hamilton
                    's journal. Barnhart suggested that Clark had several advantages over 
                        Hamilton
                    : he actually outnumbered the lieutenant governor at 
                        Vincennes
                    ; the fort at Vincennes was a poorly supplied blockhouse manned by French Canadians who
                    had little interest in fighting for Great Britain; the residents of the French towns were American
                    sympathizers; and Britain's western policy 
                  
                     23
                            
                                Randolph
                             Downes, Council Fires on the Upper 
                                    Ohio
                                : A Narrative of Indian Affairs in the Upper Ohio
                                Valley until 1795 (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1940), 229.
               
                     was in disarray, as a result of 
                        London
                    's lack of interest in the region. Barnhart also indicated that James ignored
                    or forgot evidence to make the capture of 
                        Vincennes
                     more impressive than even Clark viewed it. He recommended limiting "some of
                    the excessive adulation of Clark," especially since his "victory was not by any
                    means a miracle."24
            
            Despite Downes and Barnhart's work, two biographies aimed at a general readership appeared
                    in the 1950s that recast Clark as a war hero triumphing over incomprehensible odds. Both authors
                    reflected their era's dominant trend in American historiography: a consensus history
                    stressing broad agreement on individualism and voluntaristic action within socially acceptable
                    norms. In this historiography, conflict between Americans was either demonized as sedition or
                    marginalized, and American historians tended to present historical personalities as uniformly
                    selfless men patriotically establishing, protecting, and revering democratic liberalism. The
                    increasing popularity of American Studies programs, which probed an ostensibly organic society in
                    search of a national character, also encouraged historians to deemphasize conflict and
                        heterogeneity.25 For volunteering to lead a frontier expedition to protect
                    American liberties, Clark won the highest acclaim from his biographers in the 1950s. In these two
                    biographies of Clark, the Indians and British are not so much treacherous as invisible.
            Both Walter Havighurst and John Bakeless had previously written popular histories of the Old
                    Northwest before they turned to Clark. Their knowledge of the region, however, was colored by their
                    romantic views of it. Havighurst made Clark into a desperado, sacrificing all for the new nation.
                    Flying against the evidence, Havighurst's Clark knew his campaign "could never be
                    a logical campaign…. Let it then be unreasonable–let the odds be overwhelming.
                    He knew his case was desperate, but the more he realized his weakness, the more he relished the
                    struggle to come." Likewise, one wonders if the birth of Clark was not foretold in ancient
                    prophecies, for, according to Bakeless, "on the day George Rogers Clark was born, the man
                    and the hour met."26
            
            There is little difference between Bakeless's child of destiny and Havighurst's
                    desperado, although Bakeless provided more thorough coverage and is thus the other standard account
                    of Clark's 
                  
                     24 John Barnhart, "A New Evaluation of Henry Hamilton and
                            George Rogers Clark," 
                        Mississippi Valley
                                Historical Review, XXXVII (March, 1951), 643-52; John Barnhart, Henry
                                Hamilton and George Rogers Clark in the American Revolution with the Unpublished Journal
                                of Lieutenant Governor Henry Hamilton (Craw-fordsville, Ind., 1951), 100, 101.
                  
                     25 John Higham, "The Cult of the ‘American
                            Consensus’: Homogenizing Our History," Commentary,
                            XXVII (February, 1959), 93-100; Robert Allen Skotheim, American Intellectual
                                Histories and Historians (
                                Princeton
                            , 1966), 256-88.
                  
                     26 Havighurst, George Rogers Clark: Soldier in the
                            West, v, vi; John Bakeless, Background to Glory: The Life of George Rogers
                                Clark (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1957), preface.
               
                     life.27 Both say little about the Indians
                    and British beyond describing Clark's campaign as an attempt to defend settlements from
                    attack. Bakeless even goes so far as to claim that the French Canadians opposed him. While Bakeless
                    compiled an impressive bibliography, his historical imagination occasionally prevailed over the
                    documentation: a card game between captured American captain Leonard Helm and Hamilton occupied the
                    lieutenant governor enough in the early stages of the battle for Fort Sackville to give Clark the
                    edge, and British artillerymen were so intimidated by American marksmen that they would not look out
                    their portholes to fire. In the end, both Bakeless and Havighurst lament the injustices inflicted
                    upon Clark after the Revolution by his ungrateful countrymen.28
            
            No new biographies have appeared since the 1950s. 
                        Lowell
                     Harrison, however, has provided probably the best work on Clark. Harrison's
                    book, in just over one hundred pages, covers topics ranging from the settlement of the 
                        Virginia
                     backcountry to Clark's "painful" life after the Revolution.
                    Harrison also avoids the embellished prose of earlier writers. Harrison suggests that
                    Clark's tactics were less militarily brilliant than psychologically pivotal. By playing on
                    the emotions of British officers who feared a cruel death at the hands of the Americans should they
                    lose Fort Sackville, Clark exposed the timidity of several of 
                        Hamilton
                    's officers. Unfortunately, the standard laments–the Indians being
                    British lackeys, Clark's singular motive of curtailing Indian attacks by marching into the 
                        Illinois
                     country, and the use of the inaccurate term "conquest"–can also be
                    applied to Harrison's work.29
            
            Since the publication of the last biography of Clark, scholars have produced a wealth of material on
                    the political, military, social, and ethnic contexts of Clark's life. Much of this work
                    promises to provide the basis for a new interpretation of his achievements, ordeals, and legacy. The
                    marriage of anthropology and history has produced ethnohistory, which has been rapidly redefining
                    frontiers and broadening the understanding of native responses to colonization and American
                    expansion. The British have had their colonial policies extensively reevaluated. Work on colonial
                    backcountry settlements has begun to answer who moved beyond the Appalachian
                    Mountains and why. Scholarship on Revolutionary ideology, especially the republican
                    synthesis, has provided insights into the mentalities of eighteenth-century American whigs.30 Synthesizing this 
                  
                     27 Bakeless's biography has been reissued recently by the
                            University of 
                                Nebraska
                             Press with an introduction by James Ronda (1992).
                  
                     28 Bakeless, Background to Glory, 57-62, 181-85,
                            188-89, 193.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Lowell
                             Harrison, George Rogers Clark and the War in the West (
                                Lexington
                            , Ky., 1976).
                  
                     30 For review essays of some of the most important work in these areas
                            see James Axtell, "The Ethnohistory of Early America: A Review Essay," William and
                  
               
                     scholarship can provide a more complex view of Clark and his
                    time than has heretofore been written.
            Clark shared much with the republican gentry of tidewater 
                        Virginia
                    , in particular their enlightened political thought and intellectual and pecuniary
                    pursuits. In a crucial way, however, Clark deviated from existing typologies of a gentleman. His
                    life and fortune were tied to the frontier, an arena of cultural contact and political struggle
                    between several independent societies.31 That struggle neither began nor ended
                    with the Revolution. Clark's world was the 
                        Ohio
                    -Mississippi Valley, a region inhabited and claimed by several
                    Indian groups, three European nations, and one fledgling republic. For much of his life, Clark was
                    at the center of events in the struggle for the interior of North America. Moreover, his
                    geographical, political, and social location made him one of the early republic's important
                    sources of leadership and information (though not necessarily accurate) on the West. Clark supplied
                    accounts of the land, its inhabitants, their past and prospects, and western politics.
            Like many of the revolutionary generation, Clark subscribed to a republican ideology, a social and
                    political philosophy that held that those of the first rank would selflessly and virtuously lead the
                    polity. These men, members of what Jefferson called the "natural aristocracy,"
                    were set apart from all others and would naturally be deferred to because of their superior
                    abilities, achievements, education, and vision. Such men believed that serving the commonweal was
                    the highest good to which one could aspire. The rest of society would happily follow the
                    enlightened, disinterested, benevolent direction of its best men. Gordon Wood has recently explained
                    the deference republicans expected from the masses: "If the political rulers were men of
                    merit and talent and governed only in the public interest, they would naturally command the
                    affection and respect of the people."32
            
            Clark considered himself one of the natural aristocracy. When he arrived at the frontier station of
                    Harrodsburg in 1777, he immediately assumed leadership and began organizing its defenses. Like many
                    minor gentry who moved into 
                        Virginia
                    's backcountry, Clark 
                  
                     Mary Quarterly, 3rd ser., XXV (January, 1978), 110-44; James H. Merrell,
                            "Some Thoughts on Colonial Historians and American Indians," ibid., XLVI (January, 1989), 94-119; Richard Johnson, "Charles McLean
                            Andrews and the Invention of Colonial History," ibid., XLIII
                            (July, 1986), 535-41; Gregory H. Nobles, "Breaking into the Backcountry: New
                            Approaches to the Early American Frontier, 1750-1800," ibid.,
                            XLVI (October, 1989), 641-70; there are many review essays on republicanism, most of which
                            are cited in Daniel T. Rodgers, "Republicanism: The Career of a Concept,"
                                Journal of American History, LXXIX (June, 1992), 11-38.
                  
                     31 For this reinterpretation of a "frontier" see
                            Howard Lamar and Leonard Thompson, "Comparative Frontier History," in
                            Howard Lamar and Leonard Thompson, eds., The Frontier in History: North America
                                and 
                                    South Africa
                                 Compared (
                                New Haven
                            , 1981), 4-13.
                  
                     32 Gordon S. Wood, The Radicalism of the American
                                Revolution (
                                New York
                            , 1992), 189.
               
                     expected the deference due a man of his social status and
                    public service. Serving the common good with conviction, he began planning an expedition across the
                        Ohio River against the Shawnees, Mingoes, and British because "I
                    was determined to loose my Life rather [than] we should submit" to the enemy's
                    attacks. Once in 
                        Williamsburg
                     to explain his counterinvasion, the republican-minded Clark refused to accept offices
                    and assistance from men whom he supposed had selfish, pecuniary, or political motives, not making
                    "use of Interest for my promotion." He explained in language suggesting his faith
                    in the people to recognize ability, "to merit it is such a fixed principal with me that I
                    never could, and I hope never shall ask for a Post of Honour, as I think the Publick ought to be the
                    best Judge whether a Person deserves it or not, if he did he would certainly be Rewarded according
                    to the Virtue they had."33
            
            Clark had placed much faith in the people–too much, as it turned out. A persistent postwar
                    theme among the republican Revolutionary leaders was a profound disillusionment with the world that
                    had emerged. Deference worked only so long as inferiors followed their superiors, a habit that
                    quickly broke down after the Revolution. Instead of deferring to the most talented and disinterested
                    men, democratic ideologues, small merchants, laborers, farmers, artisans, and rural politicians
                    attacked members of the founding generation as self-interested. What soon emerged following the
                    Revolution was an aggressive, acquisitive, assertive society in which intense competition marked
                    every aspect of life, and the public arena became a forum in which separate interests jockeyed for
                    special consideration and social distinctions were levelled.34 In such a
                    setting, Clark's conviction that he had extended himself disinterestedly for the good of
                    the republic had little force, and his claims to merit and deference quickly became outdated.
            Like many of his contemporaries, Clark became disillusioned with the world the Revolution had
                    created. He destroyed personal documents pertaining to his role in the Revolution. Believing the new
                    Americans to be ungrateful, crass predators, he resolved to bury "the Rise and progress of
                    the War in this quarter in oblivion" as revenge against the acquisitive new society. It
                    took several letters and much encouragement from 
                        Kentucky
                     Congressman John Brown before Clark could rekindle enough of his "affectin for
                    the people I had so much suffered for" to begin work on his memoirs.35
            
            
               
                  33 Richard R. Beeman, The Evolution of the Southern
                            Backcountry: A Case Study of Lunenburg, 
                                Virginia
                            , 1746-1832 (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1984); Albert H. Tillson, Jr., Gentry and Common Folk: Political
                            Culture on a 
                                Virginia
                             Frontier, 1740-1789 (
                            Lexington
                        , Ky., 1991), 20-44; Clark to Mason, November 19, 1779, GRCP, I,
                        115.
               
                  34 Wood, Radicalism, part III; Joyce Appleby, Capitalism and a New Social Order: The Republican Vision of the 1790s (
                            New York
                        , 1984), 79-105; Robert Wiebe, The Opening of American Society (
                            New York
                        , 1984).
               
                  35 Clark to 
                            Brown
                        , January 20, 1789, GRCP, I, 621.
            
            
            The biographers cited above have often picked up on Clark's own rhetoric of unselfish
                    behavior in explaining his counteroffensive across the 
                        Ohio
                    . The young Virginian at Harrodsburg, after all, had simply claimed to be defending the
                    settlements. But Clark also had his own financial interests in mind in coming to 
                        Kentucky
                    . As deputy surveyor in 1775, Clark earned an annual salary of £80, in
                    addition to "the privilegde of Taking what Lands I want." His brother Jonathan,
                    deputy clerk of 
                        Dunmore County
                    , patented those lands immediately, and Clark envisioned a handsome profit speculating
                    in real estate, as "this Cuntry Setels very fast."36
            
            Clark's invasion must also be understood in the context of 
                        Virginia
                    's rivalry with 
                        Pennsylvania
                     over possession of the region. Clark had been employed as a surveyor in 1775 by the 
                        Ohio
                     Company of 
                        Virginia
                    , a group of speculators who claimed lands south of the 
                        Ohio
                     also claimed by Pennsylvania's Indiana Company. This interstate rivalry was a
                    source of contention until both states surrendered their claims after the Revolution. To strengthen
                    its claims to land north of the 
                  Ohio, Virginia
                expected to award Clark's men
                    with at least three hundred acres of land each. The rivalry over land hampered Clark's
                    recruiting in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and his attempts at procuring supplies from Fort Pitt. Clark's campaign into
                    the contested territory, undertaken by Virginia's militia and supported by
                    Virginia's money, would considerably strengthen the state's claim to the
                        region.37
            
            If helping 
                        Virginia
                    's land claims was more important than punishing the hostile Indians, it would
                    make sense for an invasion to be launched where there was the least likely resistance. Clark headed
                    west among the neutral Kickapoos and Pickawillanies along the Wabash River and
                    among the decimated 
                        Illinois
                     instead of north against the feared Shawnees and Mingoes. This was probably a conscious
                    choice by the Virginian. He prided himself on the reliability of his information on the
                        Ohio Valley, and he knew that the Shawnees were the Indians most offended
                    by the presence of the Kentuckians. The Kickapoos, on the other hand, were considered less
                    threatening. Moreover, Clark encountered considerable opposition from some 
                        Kentucky
                     settlers who thought that his expedition would accomplish little and that the troops
                    should only be 
                  
                     36 Clark to Jonathan Clark, April 1, 1775, ibid., I,
                            9, 10; John Clark to Jonathan Clark, August 12, 1776, ibid., I, 17.
                  
                     37 George E. Lewis, The Indiana Company, 1763-1798: A
                                Study in Eighteenth Century Frontier Land Speculation and Business Venture
                            (Glendale, Calif., 1941); Kenneth P. Bailey, The 
                                    Ohio
                                 Company of 
                                    Virginia
                                 and the Westward Movement: A Chapter in the History of the Colonial
                                Frontier (Glendale, Calif., 1939), 275; George Wythe, George Mason, and Thomas
                            Jefferson to Clark, January 3, 1778, GRCP, I, 37-38; William Croghan to
                            William Davis, August 18, 1781, Calendar of 
                                    Virginia
                                 State Papers, ed. William P. Palmer (8 vols., 1881-1893), II, 346
                            (hereafter CVSP); Clark to George 
                                Washington
                            , May 20, 1781, ibid., II, 109.
               
                     used for defense. Presumably, these dissenters knew the
                    expedition would not ease the depredations.38
            
            Most of Clark's biographers have portrayed the general and his men as heroic desperadoes
                    overcoming incredible odds. The challenges faced by the Virginians, however, may not have been so
                    daunting as often supposed. For instance, the Virginians received a considerable amount of help from
                    the French, Spanish, and some Indians. Clark knew before his campaign began that most of the French
                    "already disliked their Master," the English. The French from Cahokia raised two
                    companies of volunteers to join the Americans, while their counterparts at 
                        Kaskaskia
                     surrendered foodstuffs. Father Pierre Gibault, the priest at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , went to 
                        Vincennes
                     and won over the town for Clark before the Americans had even departed for it. Francis
                    Vigo, a Spanish merchant who escaped from 
                        Vincennes
                     after being detained by Hamilton, informed Clark of the passibility of the country, the
                    neutrality of various Indian villages, the strength and number of regulars at Fort Sackville, the
                    condition of the fort, and Hamilton's lack of "sus-pition of a Visit from the
                    americans." Finally, a minor Piankashaw chief named Tobacco's Son allied with
                    Clark. The Virginian believed the chief was the "Grand Dore to the Ouabache" and
                    had influence over all other chiefs in the region. That belief was unfounded, but it at least
                    allowed Clark and his men psychological security. All of this assistance gave Clark a decided
                    advantage over 
                        Hamilton
                    .39
            
            Kaskaskia was an easy first target. Although there is no evidence that Clark used a map in his
                    campaign, one available to him at the time would have informed him that its French fort had burned
                    in 1766, leaving the town without defenses. Clark likely knew the fate of the fort, because he was
                    highly duplicitous in one letter as regards its location. On one hand, he called it "a
                    small but elegant stone fort" located near "the centre of the town."
                    Later, he placed it "a small distance below the town." According to the map, its
                    ruins were three miles to the east. Fernando de Leyba, the Spanish commandant at 
                        St. Louis
                     noted that the British headquarters there were nothing more than a house. Regardless of
                    the existence or location of the fort, two spies Clark sent there in June, 1777, reported an absence
                    of soldiers in the town.40
            
            
               
                  38 John Clark to Jonathan Clark, August 12, 1776, GRCP,
                        I, 17; Petition from the Inhabitants of 
                            Kentucky
                        , June 15, 1776, ibid., 15; Clark to Mason, November 19, 1779, ibid., 118.
               
                  39 Clark to Mason, November 19, 1779, ibid., 116, 122,
                        152; Bowman's Journal, ibid., 156; Clark to Patrick Henry, February
                        3, 1779, CVSP, I, 118.
               
                  40 John H. Long, "Studying George Rogers Clark's 
                            Illinois
                         Campaign with Maps," in The French, the Indians, and George
                            Rogers Clark in the 
                                Illinois
                             Country: Proceedings of an Indiana American Revolution Bicentennial
                        Symposium (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1977), 67-91; Clark to [Patrick Henry?], 1777, GRCP, I, 30-31;
                        Leyba to Bernardo de Galvez, July 11, 1778, "Clark-Leyba Papers," Lawrence
                        Kinnaird, trans, and ed., American Historical Review, XL (October, 1935),
                    95.
            
            
            
               SLOW, CRUEL, INCREDIBLE IT WAS—THAT MARCH
            
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     and Fort Sackville also presented easy targets. As noted earlier, Clark knew the
                    strength and condition of the fort before he set out to reduce it. Clark's talent,
                    therefore, lay in his ability as a strategist and his possession of a superb intelligence network.
                    Clark's overland march to 
                        Vincennes
                     caught 
                        Hamilton
                     while he was still vulnerable.
            Fort Sackville was anything but a secure structure. After December 18, 1778, when the British retook
                    the fort, 
                        Hamilton
                    's men labored to repair it. Yet there was much to be done to what 
                        Hamilton
                     called "this miserable picketted work … [with] scarce anything for
                    defense." After three months, a blockhouse neared completion and a cannon was mounted, but
                    the defenders still remained vulnerable. By the time of Clark's surprise attack on February
                    22, 1779, the picketing had yet to be lined, and the stockades still had openings between them large
                    enough "that a man might pass his closed fist between several of them." Also,
                    houses surrounded the fort and provided cover to Clark's men. While the Americans were
                    hardly marksmen, the pathetic condition of Fort Sackville and its poor location made defense from
                    heavy fire undesirable and left its defenders vulnerable to small arms fire. In addition to
                    structural problems, roughly one-half of 
                        Hamilton
                    's men were French Canadians who refused to continue to fight for the British
                    against Clark and the French who had joined them. The  battle
                    was so lopsided that 
                        Hamilton
                     surrendered after only one night of occasionally heavy but sporadic exchanges.41
            
            The physical condition of Fort Sackville reflected the state of British military administration in 
                        Canada
                    . All of the northern Indian department's outposts were sparsely manned and
                    undersup-plied, and virtually every official harbored some animosity toward at least one other. No
                    consensus could be reached even on whether or not to use Indian allies in the war. As a result, the
                    only strategy the British could agree upon in the West was defensive. Moreover, Governor Sir Guy
                    Carleton frequently reassigned the meager troops in the West to the St. Lawrence
                    River forts. Funds were also scarce, and little could be done to supply adequately the
                    remaining troops with munitions. Carleton even went so far as to forbid 
                        Kaskaskia
                     commandant Philippe de Rocheblave to use crown money to give Indians gifts.42
            
            Commanding only a few British regulars and French Canadians of questionable loyalty, 
                        Hamilton
                     attempted to forge alliances with Indians of the 
                        Detroit
                     area and 
                        Ohio
                     country. By June 16, 1777, he received permission from Secretary of State Lord George
                    Germain to use Indian allies against the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     backcountry settlers. On October 26, 1778, he exhorted the Shawnees in council
                    "to act with [their] usual spirit upon the Frontiers." He hoped to cultivate an
                    alliance with the powerful but anti-British Miamis, and he counted the Wyandots, Ojibwas, and
                    Ottawas as his allies, at least until the end of 1778. The lieutenant governor claimed that by
                    September, 1777, fifteen British-led Indian raiding parties had left 
                        Detroit
                     and that more than 1,100 warriors "are now dispersed over the
                    Frontiers." In the absence of a strong British presence, maintaining Indian support was
                    essential to prosecuting 
                        England
                    's war in the West. Without Indian allies, there was little 
                        Hamilton
                     could do.43
            
            Fortunately for Clark, 
                        Hamilton
                     could not maintain Indian support. Britain's feeble presence in the Northwest
                    affected its relations with the Indians. Several English allies considered siding with the
                    Americans. Most natives, however, were neutral. In the fall of 1778, 
                        Hamilton
                     held several councils with various members of the Miami confederacy, during which he
                    alienated many of these Indians by refusing to follow protocol. In part, this stemmed from 
                  
                     41
                            
                                Hamilton
                            's Journal, in Barnhart, 
                        
                                    Hamilton
                                 and Clark, 149, 185.
                  
                     42 George M. Waller, The American Revolution in the
                            West (
                                Chicago
                            , 1976), 47-51; Jack M. Sosin, The Revolutionary Frontier,
                                1763-1783 (
                                New York
                            , 1967), 104-105; Paul L. Stevens, "To Invade the Frontiers of 
                                Kentucky
                            '? The Indian Diplomacy of Philippe de Rocheblave, Britain's
                            Acting Commandant at 
                                Kaskaskia
                            , 1776-1778," Filson Club History Quarterly, LXTV
                            (April, 1990), 205-46; Paul L. Stevens, "To Keep the Indians of the Wabache in His
                            Majesty's Interest': The Indian Diplomacy of Edward Abbott, British
                            Lieutenant Governor of 
                                Vincennes
                            , 1776-1778," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIII,
                            (June, 1987), 141-72.
                  
                     43 Barnhart, 
                        
                                    Hamilton
                                 and Clark, 29-34; 
                                Hamilton
                            's Journal, in ibid., 115.
               
                    
                    
                        Hamilton
                    's unwillingness to be as free with rum and presents as was custom, a condition
                    probably forced on him by Carleton's tight purse strings and fear that drunken Indians
                    would attack unarmed settlers. Also, rumors that 
                        Detroit
                     had fallen led some Indians to favor the Americans as trading partners. Ultimately, 
                        Hamilton
                     could count on only the Shawnees, Mingoes, and some Delawares and only then because
                    they felt the immediate pressure of American land hunger.44
            
            The Indians who remained British allies, however, continued to attack the 
                        Kentucky
                     settlements even after the American invasion. Clark's campaign did not end the
                    Indian war. As will be seen, he did not expect that result. Indeed, unlike his biographers, Clark
                    did not envision his foray into the 
                        Wabash
                     as a "conquest." Instead, he saw it as the first and necessary step
                    toward the capture of 
                        Detroit
                    . He believed that the French towns could serve as bases and support for the main
                    attack. Any actual conquest would have to include wresting 
                        Detroit
                     from the British. As Jefferson predicted at the end of 1780, if 
                        Detroit
                     were to "be reduced we shall be quiet in [the] future on our
                        frontiers."45
            
            The fall of 
                        Vincennes
                     failed to ease the pressure on the 
                        Kentucky
                     settlements. Beginning in early 1780, Kentuckians sent Clark "Repeated
                    & Spirited Petitions for an Expedition against the Shawnee Towns." Murders,
                    scalping, theft, and abductions by the Shawnees, Mingoes, and now some Delawares continued south of
                    the Ohio River. Meanwhile, Clark spent the winter of 1779-1780 organizing the
                    French towns under 
                        Virginia
                    's jurisdiction and planning his 
                        Detroit
                     expedition. The situation became so bad that Jefferson recommended turning other
                    Indians against the three native raiders, or, failing that, sending an American expedition against
                    them by summer, 1781. In March, 1780, Clark admitted that the absence of "some speedy Check
                    may prove Fatal to 
                        Kentucky
                     and the Total loss of the West[er]n Cuntrey on the 
                        Mississippi
                    ."46
            
            The continuing Indian war forced Clark to balance his goal of taking 
                        Detroit
                     with the need to protect 
                        Kentucky
                    . While he struggled to secure enough men and supplies from 
                        Virginia
                     and the Continental Army for his next invasion, Shawnee attacks forced him to launch
                    retaliatory raids against the principle Shawnee towns. During May and June of 1779, Colonel Joseph
                    Bowman, Clark's second in command, led an ineffectual raid against the Shawnee town of
                        
                  
                     44 Richard White, The Middle Ground: Indians, Empires,
                                and Republics in the Great Lakes Region, 1650-1815 (
                                New York
                            , 1991), 366-75.
                  
                     45 Jefferson to Clark, December 15, 1780, GRCP, I,
                            490.
                  
                     46 For Clark's attention to the French towns, see the
                            documents in GRCP, I, 303-36; for the Indian raids, see Clark to William
                            Fleming, April 4, 1780, ibid., I, 407; Jefferson to Clark, January 29,
                            1780, ibid., I, 390-91; Conditions in 
                                Kentucky
                            , March 10, 1780, ibid., I, 396-98; Petition from Inhabitants
                            of Booneseborough to Clark, March 10, 1780, ibid., I, 398-400; Petition of
                            Bryan's Station to Clark, March 13, 1780, ibid., I, 401-402;
                            Clark to John Todd, March, 1780, ibid., I, 404.
               
                    
                    
                        Chillicothe
                    . In the fall of the following year, Clark himself led 1,200 men against the same town.
                    After a series of skirmishes and a pitched battle at Piqua on the Mad River,
                    the Shawnees disengaged. While 
                        Chillicothe
                     and much of the Shawnees' winter corn were destroyed in the fight,
                    Clark's was hardly a decisive victory.47 The Shawnees relocated to the
                    Great Miami Valley and continued their raids the following spring.
            Indian warfare continued to haunt the 
                        Kentucky
                     settlers throughout 1781. Hoping that a new assault could be preempted, many called for
                    another campaign against the Shawnees. Clark opposed the idea and insisted instead that by marching
                    to the head of the 
                        Wabash
                     and thence to 
                        Detroit
                    , he could secure the entire country north and west of the 
                        Ohio
                    . Nothing would end the Indian war "but the Reduction of the British Indian
                    Posts and the possession of Lake Erie…." Singling out the Shawnees would do
                    little for the long-term security of the 
                        Kentucky
                     settlements. Convinced that the Indians were being spurred on by the British, Clark
                    reasoned that victory in the Northwest meant evicting the British.48
            
            Clark never launched the final stage of his 
                        Detroit
                     campaign, although he doggedly clung to the idea throughout the Revolution. Such a
                    march required more men and supplies than Colonel Daniel Brodhead at Fort Pitt, the 
                        Virginia
                     government, and even the Ken-tuckians were willing to allocate. Clark was left to
                    prepare the defenses of the counties for anticipated Shawnee attacks, one of which defeated a
                    contingent of Clark's men in 1781. The raids became an onslaught in February of the next
                    year. One resulted in the embarrassing disaster at Blue Licks, twenty-five miles into 
                        Kentucky
                    . Although Clark counterattacked with an invasion of the Miami country in 1782, he
                    failed to humble the Indians. The Delawares and others along the 
                        Wabash
                    , themselves smarting from white depredations, joined the Shawnees. This Algonquian
                    confederation (or Miami confederacy, named after the tribe that later played the dominant role)
                    proved such a formidable enemy that white frontier residents called Clark to lead an illegal
                    campaign in 1786-1787. In that campaign, one-half of his troops deserted, and he accomplished
                    nothing more than further antagonizing the Al-gonquians. At no point did Clark conquer the
                    Northwest. Indeed, the frontier remained fundamentally unchanged until General Anthony 
                        Wayne
                     defeated the Algonquian confederation at Fallen Timbers in 1794. Clark had admitted as
                    much in May, 1783, when 
                  
                     47 "Bowman Expedition against 
                                Chillicothe
                            , May-June, 1779," 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Archaeological and Historical Publications, XIX (1910), 446-59;
                            "Bowman's Campaign of 1779," ibid., XXII
                            (1913), 502-19; Account of the Campaign against the Shawnee Indians by Henry Wilson, GRCP, I, 476-84.
                  
                     48 Clark to the 
                                Kentucky County
                             Commissioners, September 5, 1781, GRCP, I, 598, 596.
               
                     he wrote that all Indians north of the 
                        Ohio
                     "are generally at war."49 Clark's
                    service in the Revolution and afterward, then, amounts to one episode in a long struggle for control
                    of the Ohio Valley. Historians notwithstanding, he can hardly be credited with
                    a conquest.
            Much of Clark's life after 1787 can be categorized as a postscript to the Revolution. Having
                    purchased munitions on 
                        Virginia
                    's credit, he faced a mountain of debt when that state declared most of his
                    purchases fraudulent. With the prospect of endless litigation before him, Clark deeded to his family
                    all of the several hundred thousand acres of land he had acquired through surveying and war
                        service.50
            
            As a result of his financial problems, Clark became deeply disillusioned with the America he had
                    helped create. Disgusted, he solicited a commission from the French in February, 1793, for a 
                        Vincennes
                    -like surprise attack on Spanish 
                        Louisiana
                    . Clark's biographers have long asserted that he was only acting patriotically
                    by trying to open the Mississippi River to American commerce. This
                    interpretation stems from a claim Clark made in 1795 when he faced the possibility of treason
                        charges.51
            
            Two years earlier, he had felt no deep love for his country. "My country has proved
                    notoriously ungrateful, for my Services," he bitterly complained to the French minister
                    early in 1793. With nothing to lose, he offered to "expatriate" himself from the 
                        United States
                     to avoid an international incident between that nation and 
                        Spain
                    . Clark had been following the French Revolution and knew 
                        France
                     to be at war with 
                        Spain
                    . For a commission, a "small" amount of cash or credit, and the
                    permission to raise his own men, he promised to deliver to the French all of Spanish 
                        Louisiana
                     and perhaps 
                        New Mexico
                     as well.52
            
            On April 8, 1793, Citizen Edmond Genet arrived in 
                  Charleston, South Carolina
               , as
                    the new French minister to the 
                        United States
                    . At the time, he was unaware of Clark's offer to lead an expeditionary force,
                    but he was soon told of the idea, which conveniently fit into French plans to regain the trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West. He quickly commissioned Clark major general of the "French Revolutionary
                    Legion on the 
                        Mississippi
                    ," and by October Clark had devised a campaign that closely resembled his march
                    across 
                  
                     49Benjamin Harrison to Clark, December 20, 1781, ibid., II, 19; John Floyd to John May, April 8, 1782, ibid., II, 54;
                            Clark to Benjamin Harrison, May 22, 1783, ibid., II, 237; White, Middle Ground, 407-68; L. C. Helderman, "The Northwest Expedition
                            of George Rogers Clark, 1786-1787," 
                        Mississippi
                                Valley Historical Review, XXV (December, 1938), 317-34; Colin G.
                            Calloway, "‘We Have Always Been the Frontier’: The American
                            Revolution in Shawnee Country," American Indian Quarterly, XVI
                            (Winter, 1992), 39-52.
                  
                     50 James, Life of Clark, 417-18.
                  
                     51 Clark to Committee of Public Safety, November 2, 1795, Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the Year 1896 (2 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1896), I, 1095-96.
                  
                     52 Clark to French Minister, February 5, 1793, ibid., I, 968-70.
               
                    
                    
                  ON THIS DAY HE WAS ONCE MORE A HERO
                the American bottom. He planned first to establish a rearguard base at 
                        St. Louis
                    , which would serve him much as 
                        Kaskaskia
                     had in the Revolution. After taking 
                        St. Louis
                     by surprise, he would rumble through the countryside, wooing inhabitants as he went. As
                    he had done at Cahokia, 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , and 
                        Vincennes
                    , he would make "friends of the people there" and add them to his
                    army, which he calculated would number 1,500 men. He was supremely confident and speculated:
                    "There is no knowing whare our carear will stopt.] [T]his kind of warefare is my
                    Ellement[;] I have served a long aprintiship to it."53 Lacking much
                    American popular and French financial support, however, the plot fizzled out, and Clark's
                    already tarnished image was blackened.
            On the basis of his success in 1778-1779, Clark had assumed that he was the pivotal personality in
                    the West. He constantly advertised his "possession of every means of
                    intelligence," information he had been gathering since before the Revolution.54 After the Revolution, the trans-Appalachian West became a place of fascination for
                    Americans and visitors to the new republic. As the Indians and much of the natural
                    environment–the two were indistinguishable to enlightened Americans of the late
                    eighteenth century–vanished in the East, the need both to describe and place their
                    counterparts in the West into the hierarchy of species grew corre- 
                  
                     53 Clark to Genet, October 3, 1793, ibid., I, 1008.
                  
                     54Clark to the French Minister, February 5, 1793, ibid., I, 970; for similar claims, see Clark to Mason, November 19, 1779, GRCP, I, 116, 117.
               
                     spondingly. Clark played a significant role in promoting this
                    interest by supplying unearthed remains, flora and fauna, and speculation on the origins of the
                    massive earthworks that lined the 
                        Ohio
                     and Mississippi Valleys.55
            
            In August, 1782, Clark wrote to Thomas Jefferson that he would be able to supply several specimens of
                    bones that he had found in the West, including mammoth remains. An elated Jefferson responded:
                    "a specimen of each of the several species of bones now to be found is to me the most
                    desirable object in Natural history…. Elkhorns of very extraordinary size, petrification,
                    or any else uncommon would be very acceptable." Jefferson also told Clark that
                    "any observations of your own on the subject of the big bones, or their history, or on any
                    thing else in the Western country, will come acceptabley to me, because I know you see the works of
                    nature in the great, & not merely in detail." He further requested
                    "descriptions of animals, vegetables, minerals, or other curious things, notes as to the
                    Indians, information of the country between the 
                        Mississippi
                     & waters of the South sea [Pacific Ocean]"–anything that might
                    strike Clark as noteworthy.56
            
            About one year later Jefferson received from Clark a shipment of shells and seeds along with a letter
                    keeping "alive the hope of getting for me as many of the different species of bones, teeth
                    & tusks of the Mammoth as can now be found." Jefferson also suggested to his source
                    in the West a plan that undoubtedly appealed to Clark: a possible reconnoitering expedition to the
                    Pacific Ocean. Jefferson had learned that the English were planning to explore the trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West. While "they pretend it is only to promote knoledge," Jefferson
                    feared they also intended to colonize the region. He inquired of Clark: "Would you like to
                    lead such a party?" Not only would such a trek have important strategic benefits, but it
                    would also provide a chance to catalogue "the Natural productions and Curiosities of those
                    Regions," always an exciting possibility for natural philosophers. While much talk of such
                    an excursion circulated in the 1780s, the expense proved prohibitive.57
            
            By virtue of his firsthand knowledge of the Indians and the region, Clark was considered an authority
                    on the West's natural history. Several naturalists and travelers through the interior also
                    found him a ready source of information on the region's natural peculiarities. John Pope
                    and John James Audubon spent time with him discussing plant and animal life, and Merriweather Lewis
                    and William Clark probably spent an evening with their frontier predecessor 
                  
                     55 Brooke Hindle, The Pursuit of Science in Revolutionary
                                America, 1735-1789 (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , 1956), 15, 184-85; Raymond Phineas Stearns, Science in the
                                British Colonies of America (
                                Urbana
                            , 111., 1970), 3-8.
                  
                     56 Jefferson to Clark, November 26, 1782, GRCP, II,
                            155.
                  
                     57 Jefferson to Clark, December 4, 1783, ibid., II,
                            250; Hindle, Pursuit of Science, 324-25.
               
                     before embarking on their expedition. Clark also provided Allan
                    Bowie Magruder with an interpretation of the Indians of the Ohio Valley and
                    John P. Campbell with evidence on the origins of the Moundbuilders. In fact, he occasionally became
                    irritated when writers without firsthand knowledge of the region speculated on the origins of the
                    mounds without consulting the experts on "the Geography and Natural History of the back
                        Cuntrey."58
            
            Clark was one of the few Americans who credited the ancestors of contemporary Indians with building
                    the mounds before the theory of a Moundbuilder race was demolished at the end of the nineteenth
                    century. He named the Kaskaskias, Peorias, Kahokias, Piankashaws, Chickasaws, Cherokees,
                    "and such old nations" as the builders. These nations were formerly large,
                    according to a tradition relayed to Clark by the 
                        Kaskaskia
                     chief Baptist Ducoign. "But affronting the great spirit, he made war among the
                    nations and they destroyed each other." Clark saw little reason to doubt the authenticity
                    of the Indians' story. "This is their Tradition and I see no good reason why it
                    should not be received as good History, at least, as good as [a] great part of ours."59
            
            Awareness of Clark has run in cycles. He was rescued from obscurity at the turn of the century, and
                    no less than nine biographies appeared between 1896 and 1957. All these writers admired Clark and
                    produced highly favorable accounts, even to the point of contradicting themselves and ignoring
                    evidence that would have lessened Clark's historical significance. The American
                    Bicentennial aroused some interest in the general, but no new full biography appeared. Of late, he
                    seems to have slipped back into obscurity. One widely used undergraduate textbook even confuses him
                    with his brother, William Clark.60
            
            A new biography is needed, one which incorporates elements of the recent scholarship on British
                    policy in the West, Indians, republicanism, and the settlement of the backcountry. Portraying Clark
                    as a man of destiny or hero of the frontier may well have pleased the man, but it does not satisfy
                    present-day historians. Clark's life was almost entirely consumed in western issues:
                    exploration, Indian wars, war debts, land speculation, surveying, 
                  
                     58 Samuel W. Thomas and Eugene H. Conner, "George Rogers
                            Clark [1752-1818]: Natural Scientist and Historian," Filson Club
                                History Quarterly, XLI (July, 1967), 202-26; John P. Campbell, "Of the
                            Aborigines of the Western Country," Port Folio, 4th [5th] series,
                            I (June, 1816), 459. One of Clark's unpublished manuscripts on the Indians was
                            found by Lyman C. Draper who sent it to Henry R. Schoolcraft. A polished version is in
                            Schoolcraft, ed., Archives of Aboriginal Knowledge (6 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1860), IV, 133-36. The original of this manuscript is reprinted in Thomas and
                            Conner, "George Rogers Clark," 208-10.
                  
                     59 Thomas and Conner, "George Rogers Clark," 210.
                  
                     60 Mary Beth Norton, et al., A People and a Nation: A
                                History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (3rd ed., 2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1990), see index under "Clark, George Rogers" and p.
                        220.
               
                     foreign intrigues, and natural history. A fresh interpretation
                    of Clark must make him part of his frontier, not the romantic hero who supposedly conquered it.
         
         
         
            Liberty, Will, and Violence: The Political Ideology of the Democrats of West-Central Indiana
                    during the Civil War
            
                    Thomas E. Rodgers
                    ∗
                
            The people of Indiana were far from united in their responses to the Civil War. Hoosier Democrats
                    reacted to the events of the day in a manner often at odds with their Republican neighbors. A small
                    number of well-known Democratic leaders became War Democrats, but very few of their constituents
                    followed their example. Most Democrats were opposed to the policies of Abraham Lincoln and
                    Republican Governor Oliver P. Morton. While their opposition was muted during the first year of the
                    war, it was not uncommon, and as the conflict continued their criticism of state and national
                    leaders became ever louder.1
            
            At first most Hoosier Democrats sat on the political and military sidelines. There were no major
                    elections held in the state in the first year of the war, and thus no opportunity for Democrats to
                    express their discontent at the ballot box. Relatively few Hoosier Democrats volunteered for service
                    before the first drafts began in the summer of 1862. Then, in September, 1862, the smoldering embers
                    of Democratic resentment of Republican policies were fanned into flames by Lincoln's
                    preliminary Emancipation Proclamation. In October and November, Hoosier Democrats flocked to the
                    polls in numbers extraordinary for an off-year election, with the result that their leaders took
                    control of the Indiana General Assembly. Democratic legislators lambasted the war and Republican
                    policies. They attempted to put limits on Governor Morton's powers 
                  
                     ∗Thomas E. Rodgers received his Ph.D. in history from
                            Indiana University in 1991. He is the coauthor, with Robert L. Reid, of A Good
                                Neighbor: The First Fifty Years at Crane, 1941-1991 (1991).
                  
                     1 The view that most Democrats opposed the war from the beginning is
                            based on Thomas E. Rodgers, "Northern Political Ideologies in the Civil War Era:
                            West-Central Indiana, 1860-1866" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 1991).
                            Among the most important secondary works on Indiana during the Civil War are: Kenneth M.
                            Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War (reprint ed., 
                                Bloomington
                            , 1978); Lorna Lutes Sylvester, "Oliver P. Morton and Hoosier Politics
                            during the Civil War" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 1968); Emma Lou
                            Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1965), 180-224; Gilbert R. Tredway, Democratic Opposition to the
                                Lincoln Administration in Indiana (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XLVIII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1973); and James Albert Woodburn, "Party Politics in Indiana during
                            the Civil War," Annual Report of the American Historical Association
                                for the Year 1902 (2 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1903), I, 223-51.
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, XCH (June, 1996). © 1996, Trustees of Indiana
                            University.
               
                     and to make Indiana take the lead in finding a negotiated
                    settlement to the war. These efforts enraged Republican Hoosiers. When a state budget was not passed
                    by the end of the legislative session, Morton refused to call a special session and assumed
                    extralegal powers.2
            
            From the seating of the Democratic legislature until the end of the war, Republicans saw Democrats as
                    traitors, and Democrats viewed Republicans as tyrants. Democrats particularly resented the draft,
                    the arrest of civilians by military officials, and the denial of habeas corpus to
                    those arrested. Hundreds of acts of interparty violence occurred in Indiana: fistfights and gunplay
                    between individuals; disruptions and brawls at political meetings; seizures of draft enrollment
                    lists by bands of armed men; and the murders of two draft officials. Both Republicans and Democrats
                    formed paramilitary groups. A violent confrontation between one such Democratic group and federal
                    troops in 
                        Sullivan County
                     was averted only when a government official quickly withdrew the troops by train to 
                        Terre Haute
                    . In September, 1864, treason trials orchestrated by Governor Morton began. These
                    trials, Republicans claimed, revealed a large-scale conspiracy against the government led by men who
                    were well-known Democratic leaders.3
            
            
               
                  2 See the general works cited in footnote 1 and Lorna Lutes Sylvester,
                        "Oliver P. Morton and the Indiana Legislature of 1863," in Robert G. Barrows,
                        ed., Their Infinite Variety: Essays on Indiana Politicians, (Indiana Historical
                            Collections, Vol. LIII; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1981), 130-46. On Democrats not volunteering in large numbers see Rodgers,
                        "Northern Political Ideologies," 537-61; and Thomas E. Rodgers, "A
                        Collective Profile of Union Army Volunteers in West-Central Indiana" (Paper presented
                        at the annual meeting of the Social Science History Association; 
                            Baltimore
                        , November, 1993). This paper will be published in a future issue of the Indiana Magazine of History.
               
                  3 For background on the trials, examples of violence between Hoosier
                        Republicans and Democrats, and interpretations of Democratic loyalty in general in Indiana see
                        the works cited in footnote 1 and the following: Rodgers, "Northern Political
                        Ideologies," 571-89; Benn Pitman, The Trials for Treason at 
                                Indianapolis
                             … (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1865); [William H. H. Terrell], Report of the Adjutant General of the
                            State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1866-1869, I; Mayo Fesler, "Secret Political Societies in the North
                        during the Civil War," Indiana Magazine of History, XIV (September,
                        1918), 183-286; Frank L. Klement, "Carrington and the Golden Circle Legend in Indiana
                        during the Civil War," Indiana Magazine of History, LXI (March,
                        1965), 31-52; Frank L. Klement, The Copperheads in the Middle West (
                            Chicago
                        , 1960); Frank L. Klement, Dark Lanterns: Secret Political Societies,
                            Conspiracies, and Treason Trials in the Civil War (
                            Baton Rouge
                        , 1984); Alan T. Nolan, "Ex Parte Milligan: A Curb of
                        Executive and Military Power," in We the People: Indiana and the 
                                United States
                             Constitution (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1987), 26-53; Kenneth M. Stampp, "The Milligan Case and the Election of
                        1864 in Indiana," 
                     Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Review, XXXI (June, 1944), 41-58. For general historiographical background on the issue
                        of Democratic loyalty see: Robert H. Abzug, "The Copperheads: Historical Approaches to
                        Civil War Dissent in the Midwest," Indiana Magazine of History, LXVI
                        (March, 1970), 40-55; William G. Carleton, "Civil War Dissidence in the North: The
                        Perspective of a Century," South Atlantic Quarterly, LXV (Summer,
                        1966), 390-402; Richard O. Curry, "The Civil War and Reconstruction, 1861-1877: A
                        Critical Overview of Recent Trends and Interpretations," Civil War
                            History, XX (September, 1974), 216-20; Richard O. Curry, "The Union as It Was:
                        A Critique of Recent Interpretations
            
            
            A number of historians have described the turmoil on the Indiana homefront, but they have not
                    explained adequately why it took place. Why did Democrats so fervently oppose state and national
                    Republican policies? Were Hoosier Democrats disloyal to the Union? These and other questions of
                    motivation have received relatively little attention. Among the motivations that historians have
                    ascribed to Democrats are: southern birth or ancestry and consequent sympathy for the South;
                    fervent, perhaps irrationally so, political partisanship; alienation created by the growing market
                    economy; resistance to the draft; conservative constitutionalism; racist outrage at emancipation and
                    other policies related to blacks; and a sense that federal actions threatened their civil rights.4
            
            While a number of motivations have thus been suggested, historians have rarely developed these
                    explanations fully. Why, for instance, did Democrats of southern ancestry oppose the Lincoln
                    administration's efforts to save the Union, while Republicans of southern ancestry
                    supported it? Democrats held many racist views, but so did Hoosier Republicans. Democrats might have
                    feared the expansion of federal power and the suspension of some rights, but why did they not put
                    these fears aside, as Hoosier Republicans did, when the Union itself was at stake? Similarly, why
                    was the preservation of the Union not so important a goal as to inspire Democrats to overcome
                    temporarily their partisanship?
            In order to understand the wartime behavior and motivations of Hoosier Democrats, one must examine
                    their political ideology, the ways in which that ideology influenced their perception of what was
                    going on around them, and their reaction to those perceptions. This article examines the dynamic
                    interaction of ideology and behavior among the Democrats of Indiana's Seventh Congressional
                    District. The district enclosed an area of west-central Indiana around 
                        Terre Haute
                     that included such alleged hotbeds of disloyalty as 
                        Sullivan
                     and 
                        Greene counties
                    . While this study focuses on only one part of Indiana, the findings are applicable to
                    large areas of central and southern Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     and other regions of the Midwest.
            The Seventh District contained eight counties. The economic and political center of the district was 
                        Terre Haute
                    , which had a population of 8,594 in 1860. The only other town with as many as 2,000
                    people was 
                        Greencastle
                    , the county seat of 
                        Putnam
                     County. 
                  of the "Copperheads," ibid., XIII (March, 1967),
                            25-39; Frank L. Klement, "Civil War Politics, Nationalism, and Postwar
                            Myths," Historian, XXXVIII (May, 1976), 419-38; and Klement, Dark Lanterns, 234-44.
                  
                     4 See the works by Klement, Stampp, Thornbrough, Tredway, and Woodburn
                            cited above. Some historians have tried to divide Hoosier Democrats into factions with
                            varying degrees of loyalty. Based on the Seventh District, almost all Democrats, except for
                            the very small group of War Democrats, were in general agreement in terms of their political
                            concerns and ideology.
               
                     Thus the district was overwhelmingly rural in character, and
                    its economy was based on agriculture.6
            
            The population of the district was predominantly native born. While a few foreign-born individuals
                    could be found in almost every part of the region, only 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Greencastle
                     had significant numbers of foreign-born citizens. Most of these immigrants were from 
                        Ireland
                     or one of a variety of German states. The native-born voting population contained
                    substantial numbers of individuals who were either born in a northern state or were the sons of
                    northerners. Such individuals were most common in the district's towns and northernmost
                    counties. The largest number of voters, however, were of southern origins. Southerners predominated
                    in most of the rural areas of the region. The numbers of southern born and southern stock given in
                    Table I understate the southern component of the population, since the origins of a number of
                    Indiana-born men could not be determined and some of the 
                        Ohio
                    -born males counted as northern were probably of southern ancestry and acculturation.
            The district was evenly divided between the political parties with a slight edge to the Democrats.
                    John G. Davis, a Democrat from 
                        Parke County
                    , was the district's congressman during most of the 1850s, while Daniel W.
                    Voorhees, a Democrat from 
                        Terre Haute
                    , was the congressman during the Civil War. Although these two Democrats won a number of
                    elections, the district's political battles were almost always hotly contested. Voting
                    patterns in most areas of the district were consistent. 
                        Terre Haute
                    's politics, however, were volatile, with first one then the other party
                    winning office.
            Native-born farmers were the key constituents of both parties. The Irish and the German Catholics
                    were consistent supporters of the Democratic party, but they were few in number compared to the
                    thousands of native-born Democratic farmers in the district. The overwhelming majority of these
                    rural native-born Democrats were men of southern birth or ancestry. It was to these farmers that
                    Democratic leaders tailored their party's ideology. While Democratic positions in the
                    Seventh District were similar to those of Democrats around the country, Democratic thought in
                    west-central Indiana was heavily influenced by the cultural and ideological baggage these Democrats
                    brought from the South and the socioeconomic conditions within which they lived.
            The political statements of Democratic orators and editors are a key source of information about
                    ideology. A few aspects of Demo- 
                  
                     5 Despite 
                                Terre Haute
                            's size, even in Vigo most of the people lived in the rural areas of
                            the county. The eight counties of the district during the Civil War were 
                        Clay, Greene
                     ,
                            Owen, Parke, 
                                Putnam
                            , Sullivan, 
                                Vermillion
                            , and Vigo. Information from 
                                Fountain
                             and 
                                Hendricks counties
                            , which border the district, is also used. For socioeconomic, demographical, and
                            political background on the district in this and the following paragraphs see Rodgers,
                            "Northern Political Ideologies."
               
                    
                    
                  
                     Table I
                      Percentage of the Adult White Male Population
                            Who Were of Southern, Northern, or Foreign Birth or Parentage in 
                                Selected Counties
                            , Townships, Towns, and Wards of West-Central Indiana in 1860∗
                  
                  
                     
                                Polity
                            
                     
                                Southern
                            
                     
                                Northern
                            
                     
                                Foreign
                            
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Parke County
                                
                            
                     38.5%
                     25.4%
                     7.7%
                  
                  
                        Howard Township
                     66.9
                     14.2
                     3.4
                  
                  
                        Jackson Township
                     50.5
                     16.2
                     4.3
                  
                  
                        Penn Township
                     46.7
                     19.0
                     3.6
                  
                  
                        
                                    Rockville
                                 (town)
                     31.4
                     33.7
                     11.2
                  
                  
                     
                        
                                    Putnam
                                 County
                     50.0
                     14.8
                     9.3
                  
                  
                        Cloverdale Township
                     61.0
                     13.2
                     4.3
                  
                  
                        Russel Township
                     52.3
                     7.6
                     4.6
                  
                  
                        
                                    Greencastle
                                 (town)
                     36.5
                     23.2
                     18.8
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Sullivan County
                                
                            
                     43.7
                     11.7
                     3.9
                  
                  
                        
                                    Hamilton
                                 Township
                     40.1
                     17.7
                     3.3
                  
                  
                        Gill Township
                     40.3
                     16.1
                     4.0
                  
                  
                        Jefferson Township
                     56.3
                     4.1
                     4.1
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Vigo County
                                
                            
                     19.2
                     27.2
                     24.9
                  
                  
                        Linton Township
                     59.7
                     13.3
                     0.9
                  
                  
                        Nevins Township
                     31.7
                     38.3
                     2.2
                  
                  
                        Otter Creek Township
                     18.5
                     37.0
                     7.1
                  
                  
                        Riley Township
                     23.3
                     40.8
                     7.1
                  
                  
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                 (2nd Ward)
                     
                                9.2
                            
                     33.3
                     35.2
                  
                  
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                 (3rd Ward)
                     8.2
                     25.2
                     46.3
                  
               
                    
                  
                     ∗ Derived from U.S., Eighth Census, 1860, Schedule
                        1.
               
                     cratic ideology went largely unexpressed and must be distilled
                    from the social arrangements and behaviors of Hoosier Democrats, but most of what can be known about
                    Democratic ideology must be based on statements party members and leaders left as part of the
                    historical record. Unfortunately, few observations by rank-and-file Democrats have survived. The
                    existing documents are mainly convention resolutions, newspaper editorials and descriptions of the
                    public mood, and the speeches and writings of political leaders. In the Seventh District,
                    Congressman Daniel W. Voorhees was especially important in defining and enunciating the
                    party's views. He consistently placed the events of the war years into an ideological
                    context. Thus, while drawing on a variety of historical sources, this study will focus especially on
                    Voorhees's speeches.
            If Voorhees and other leaders provide many of the sources for Democratic ideology in the district, it
                    is important to determine to what degree they were representative of their constituents. Hoosier
                    political parties of the mid-nineteenth century were made up of extensive networks of party
                    activists that extended from the rural neighborhood and township to the county, district, and state
                    levels. A good understanding of the dynamics of how candidates and convention resolutions came to be
                    chosen can be obtained from the correspondence between the members of the Democratic network in the
                    Seventh District and John G. Davis and from newspaper reports on conventions and campaigns.6
            
            Potential Democratic candidates for Congress began traveling the district and making speeches during
                    the early months of election years. Many of these candidates were lawyers who took time for
                    politicking while doing business on the judicial circuit. Local leaders judged the response of their
                    friends and neighbors to both 
                  
                     6 The material presented here on the interactions of political leaders
                            and constituents summarizes a much longer analysis presented in Rodgers, "Northern
                            Political Ideologies," especially 125-98, 597-624. While the analysis here and the
                            one in the dissertation are based on a plethora of primary sources, the most important
                            sources are the letters written to Davis. See M 82, John Givan Davis Papers (Indiana
                            Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); and Ind. MSS. B, John Givan Davis Papers, (The State Historical Society of
                                    
                        Wisconsin, Madison
                      [hereafter cited as Davis Papers, 
                                Wisconsin
                            ]). The secondary sources on mid-nineteenth century political ideology and
                            organization that have influenced the conclusions presented here include: Jean H. Baker, Affairs of Party: The Political Culture of Northern Democrats in the
                                Mid-Nineteenth Century (
                                Ithaca
                            , N.Y., 1983); Ronald P. Formisano, The Birth of Mass Political
                                Parties: 
                                    Michigan
                                , 1827-1861 (
                                Princeton
                            , 1971); Ronald P. Formisano, "The Invention of the Ethnocultural
                            Interpretation," American Historical Review, XCIX (April, 1994),
                            453-77; Michael F. Holt, The Political Crisis of the 1850s (
                                New York
                            , 1978); Paul Kleppner, The Third Electoral System, 1853-1892:
                                Parties, Voters, and Political Cultures (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , 1979); Joel H. Silbey, The American Political Nation,
                            1838-1893 (
                                Stanford
                            , Calif., 1991); Joel H. Silbey, A Respectable Minority: The
                                Democratic Party in the Civil War Era, 1860-1868 (
                                New York
                            , 1977); Joel H. Silbey, "‘The Salt of the
                            Nation’: Political Parties in Ante-Bel-lum America," in Richard L.
                            McCormick, ed., Political Parties and the Modern State (
                                New Brunswick
                            , N.J., 1984), 21-51.
               
                     the candidate and to the positions he presented. They then
                    communicated their evaluations to other members of the network. By the time the district nominating
                    convention was held, Democratic leaders had a very good impression of which candidate and which
                    positions resonated best with the largest numbers of the rank-and-file party members. Large numbers
                    of party members attended district conventions, but a relatively small group of longtime party
                    leaders were generally in charge of running the convention and heading up the resolutions committee.
                    Thus the district nominating conventions were dominated and manipulated by a small group of party
                    activists, but these leaders used their control of the proceedings to pick a candidate and
                    resolutions that they already knew most of the party's supporters favored.
            Picking a candidate and positions that appealed to the Democratic constituency was very important
                    because the key to electoral success in mid-nineteenth-century Indiana was turnout. Outside of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , voting patterns were stable. Motivating the rank-and-file to vote was the way to win
                    elections. The big Democratic victory in Indiana in 1862 came about because the party inspired a
                    presidential-year-sized vote, while Republicans voted in numbers typical for an off-year election.
                    How, though, could a large turnout be obtained? A popular candidate or national controversies were
                    not enough. Seventh District Republicans found this out in 1858, when they nominated John G. Davis,
                    the incumbent Democratic congressman from the district. Davis backed Stephen A. Douglas in the
                    Lecompton Constitution controversy, which dominated national politics at the time and divided the
                    state and national Democratic party into pro-Buchanan and pro-Douglas factions. The Republicans ran
                    Davis on a vague, eclectic platform that incorporated both standard Republican and Democratic
                    positions. Davis pulled in some Democratic voters in his home county of Parke and some in Vigo, but
                    most Democrats remained loyal to their party, while many Republicans were not motivated to vote. The
                    turnout was very low for both parties, in spite of the momentous Lecompton issue. The Republicans
                    won the election but had little else to show for all their work: Democratic crossover voters in
                    Parke and Vigo returned to their party; the Republican rank-and-file was confused by the mix of
                    Republican and Democratic positions and stayed home in large numbers; and Davis quickly returned to
                    being a fervent Jacksonian Democrat after the election and became a vociferous critic of
                    Lincoln's policies as soon as the war began.
            If controversial issues and popular candidates were not enough in themselves to motivate voters to
                    come to the polls, what then was required? The answer was a skillfully designed and articulately
                    expressed political ideology. Both political parties appealed to various cultural groups. Culture
                    here is used to mean the basic beliefs, attitudes, and values of a group of people. A
                    group's culture  answers the questions of existence,
                    from what is man's purpose to how society works. It defines reality. For most people in the
                    Seventh District cultural values were not something precisely defined and formally learned. Instead,
                    they were adopted through the process of socialization. Hoosier farm boys learned farming from what
                    their fathers formally told them but also by watching and helping their fathers in the field and
                    barn. In the same way they picked up the cultural values of their forebears from what they were
                    formally taught and from what they observed.
            Political ideology consists of a series of positions on such basic questions as the role of
                    government, the nature of personal freedom, the best means to establish and maintain social order,
                    and the nature of the Union. Ideology reflects the cultural values of a party's most
                    important constituent groups; it is, in essence, the common denominator of the major cultures of the
                    rank-and-file party members. For instance, southern upland Democrats and Irish immigrant Democrats
                    were both pessimistic about the ability of human beings to change their ways or to overcome
                    self-interest. This shared cultural view helped to inspire such staples of Democratic ideology as
                    opposition to government-sponsored reform movements and to strong, activist governments that would
                    allow men in power to use their positions to pursue their self-interests by enriching themselves.7
            
            In order to motivate the rank-and-file, a skillful politician had to take the issues of the day and
                    cogently put them into an ideological context. That context would explain to the voter how his most
                    basic values and beliefs would be effected for good or ill by the way he voted on an issue. A
                    controversial issue alone could not motivate Hoosier voters. It had to be put into an ideological
                    (and thus a cultural) context. Experienced voters might on some occasions make ideological
                    connections for themselves, but party orators and newspaper editors were especially important in
                    making such connections. A successful party leader, then, not only reflected the views of his
                    constituents on the issues of the day, he did much to mold them. Leaders could not make their
                    constituents believe just anything: they were limited by the basic cultural and ideological values
                    of their supporters.
            There were other factors involved in party success, such as good organization and social activities
                    that brought the party faithful together and reinforced their party identity. Still, the key to
                    winning elections was the symbiotic relationship between the cultural values of a constituent and a
                    politician creatively putting the issues of the day into an ideological context. Seventh District
                    leaders 
                  
                     7 Democratic ideology did not fit each cultural group equally well.
                            The groups whose cultural values were most like the ideological tenets of the party were the
                            groups least likely to switch parties.
               
                     ers did not have to create party ideology from scratch. Many of
                    the major tenets of Democratic ideology had been worked out since at least the 1830s. But they did
                    have to modify the ideology to fit the particular mix of cultural groups in the district. And, of
                    course, they had to perform the creative act of cogently interpreting each new issue that arose in
                    ideological terms. Because rural, southern uplanders were so predominant in the party in
                    west-central Indiana, it was to their cultural values that party leaders had to cater.8
            
            Among the wartime Democratic leaders of the Seventh District, Daniel W. Voorhees was peculiarly
                    successful at both shaping and expressing the views of his supporters. As the son of Virginian
                    migrants to Indiana, his own socialization in all likelihood made him sensitive to uplander cultural
                    values. And this sensitivity was kept current by the steady flow of information from the Democratic
                    leadership network and by the remarkable number of personal appearances a congressional candidate
                    made throughout the district during a campaign. Voorhees was a creative leader, who made long
                    speeches on the issues of the day. He was an excellent communicator, who was in demand as a speaker
                    at Democratic rallies in a number of northern states as well as in his own district.9
            
            His influence with Democrats within the Seventh District was quite strong. The initial federal draft
                    appears to have taken place in the Seventh District primarily because Voorhees personally
                    barnstormed the district to convince his constituents to cease their resistance to it. The praise
                    and adulation Voorhees received from Democratic voters went beyond the norm. In the manuscript
                    census one can find families who named a child after him. And he was given all kinds of laudatory
                    nicknames, such as "the tall sycamore of the 
                        Wabash
                    ," "gallant Dan," and the "Tiger of the
                    West." Such sobriquets, with their connotations of strength and heroism, are indications
                    that the Democrats of west-central Indiana saw him as their champion, the defender of their values,
                    and, perhaps, in a sense, their cultural hero. Republicans, too, saw Voorhees as the intellectual
                    and political leader of the region's Democrats. He is frequently mentioned–and
                    condemned–in private Republican letters as well as Republican newspapers.10
            
            
               
                  8 Democratic ideology could differ in various particulars from region to
                        region. 
                            Pennsylvania
                         Democrats had, for instance, a different view of tariffs than Hoosier Democrats.
               
                  9 Voorhees has received relatively little scholarly attention. Among the
                        works about him that have been published are: Frank Smith Bogardus, "Daniel W.
                        Voorhees," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVTI (June, 1931), 91-103;
                        Henry D. Jordan, "Daniel Wolsey Voorhees," 
                     Mississippi
                                Valley Historical Review, VI (March, 1920), 532-55; Leonard S.
                        Kenworthy, The Tall Sycamore of the 
                                Wabash
                            : Daniel Wolsey Voorhees (
                            Boston
                        , 1936); and Henry Lane Wilson, "An Early Indiana Political
                        Contest," Indiana Magazine of History, XXW (June, 1928), 96-104.
               
                  10 On Voorhees's nicknames, his role in the draft, and Republican
                        reactions to him see the sources in footnote 9 and E. B. Allen to Henry S. Lane, September 7,
                        1860, typescript, box 1860, Henry S. Lane Manuscripts (Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        ); Atelus Dooley to Rufus Dooley, November 11, 1862, Sarah A.
            
            
            
               DANIEL VOORHEES IN 1860, THE
                        YEAR HE WAS FIRST ELECTED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
               
               Reproduced from Harriet Cecilia Voorhees, ed., Forty Years of Oratory: Daniel Wolsey
                            Voorhees (3 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1898), II, frontispiece.
            
            The crisis of the Civil War led Voorhees and other Democratic leaders to make expansive speeches on
                    the basic meanings of such things as liberty, democracy, and America itself as well as on specific
                    issues of the day. To understand the ideology of Hoosier Democrats and the way in which they viewed
                    the world, one must comprehend the manner in which Voorhees and his party defined such basic
                    concepts as liberty, social order, equality, Union, the Constitution, and the characteristics of the
                    truly free man. One must also, however, know something about the socioeconomic situation of Hoosier
                    Democrats because this experience was an inte- 
                  Dooley to Rufus Dooley, May 9, 1863, M 383, Rufus Dooley Papers (Indiana Historical
                            Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); Sullivan Democrat, July 16, 1863; 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Daily 
                                    Wabash
                                 Express, September 8, 29, 30, 1862, August 23, 1864.
               
                     gral, if often unexpressed, part of some of the tenets of their
                    ideological views and definitions.11
            
            When one examines how a party interprets liberty, one must also examine its views on social order.
                    Liberty and order are two sides of the same coin: the former cannot exist without the latter. The
                    Democrats of west-central Indiana defined liberty and order very differently than their Republican
                    neighbors. Republicans viewed personal liberty as the product of an elaborate process of developing
                    self-control and self-discipline. One could be truly free only when one's passions were
                    checked, one's values made to conform to the moral absolutes of evangelical Protestantism,
                    and one's reason properly cultivated. Because men who were truly free operated from common
                    values, individual liberty and social order were not at odds.12
            
            
               
                  11 Evaluations of Voorhees's attitudes are based mainly on
                        surviving letters and speeches. Some of his most important speeches were collected in Daniel W.
                        Voorhees, Speeches of Daniel W. Voorhees of Indiana, comp. Charles S.
                        Voorhees, introduction by A. B. Carlton (
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1875). Speeches appearing in this work will be cited as Speeches. Voorhees's speeches were given in his home district, in Congress, and
                        on the stump while campaigning outside his district in Indiana and in many of the other northern
                        states. Many of the speeches he gave outside of the district were reprinted in district
                        newspapers. Apparently, some of his speeches were translated into German for constituents who
                        spoke that language rather than English. In addition, accounts of stump speeches given in the
                        district indicate that he used many of the same points and probably even some of the same lines
                        in his numerous speeches to his constituents that he used in his more formal speeches given
                        elsewhere. On these points see: Sullivan Democrat, April 16, 1863; Rodgers,
                        "Northern Political Ideologies," 164-67. It should be noted that the
                        ideological analysis that follows focuses on the most common views of the Democrats of
                        west-central Indiana. These views were mainly rooted in the social experiences and culture of
                        the rural southern-born or stock Democrats who dominated the party in numbers and ideology in
                        the Seventh District. Space does not allow a consideration of the ways in which the various
                        other types of Democrats in the district (i.e., northern-born, foreign-born,
                        conservative, Victorian) agreed and disagreed with the predominant ideology presented here. An
                        analysis of these similarities and differences is provided in Rodgers, "Northern
                        Political Ideologies," 422-50.
               
                  12 In west-central Indiana there was such continuity between Whig and
                        Republican thinking that many historical interpretations of Whig ideology are very germane to
                        the ideology of their successors. The generalizations about Republican ideology presented in
                        this article are based on Rodgers, "Northern Political Ideologies," 269-377.
                        Some of the studies that have influenced the interpretation presented here are: John Ashworth,
                            ‘Agrarians’ &
                            ‘Aristocrats’: Party Political Ideology in the 
                                United States
                            , 1837-1846 (
                            London
                        , 1983); Elliott R. Barkan, "The Emergence of a Whig Persuasion:
                        Conservativism, Democratism, and the 
                            New York
                         State Whigs," 
                     
                                New York
                             History, LII (October, 1971), 367-95; Thomas 
                            Brown
                        , Politics and Statesmanship: Essays on the American Whig Party (
                            New York
                        , 1985); Daniel Walker Howe, The Political Culture of the American
                            Whigs (
                            Chicago
                        , 1979); Daniel Walker Howe, "The Evangelical Movement and Political
                        Culture in the North during the Second Party System," Journal of American
                            History, LXXVII (March, 1991), 1216-39; J. V. Matthews, "‘Whig
                        History’: The New 
                            England
                         Whigs and a Usable Past," New 
                                England
                             Quarterly, LI (June, 1978), 193-208; Major L. Wilson,
                        "‘Liberty and Union’: An Analysis of Three Concepts Involved in
                        the Nullification Controversy," Journal of Southern History, XXXIII
                        (August, 1967), 331-55; and Major L. Wilson, Space, Time, and Freedom: The Quest
                            for Nationality and the Irrepressible Conflict, 1815-1861 (
                            Westport
                        , Conn., 1974).
            
            
            Voorhees and his supporters had a much simpler definition of individual freedom. Freedom was the
                    absence of external political or economic controls and restraints. If the expressed Democratic
                    definition of liberty was simple, understanding how they believed they could create a society in
                    which such a broad freedom could be exercised without begetting chaos presents a more complex task.
                    Democrats said little of a direct nature about social order. Indeed, the current literature on
                    political ideology in the nineteenth century has a great deal to say about Whig and Republican
                    concepts of order, but little about Democratic views in large part because Whigs and Republicans
                    wrote so much about this subject while Democrats said so little about it.13 This
                    Democratic silence, however, does not mean that they were without ideas on the subject. Their
                    conception of order is revealed in their socioeconomic behavior and the relationship of this
                    behavior to some key Democratic ideological tenets concerning the role of government.
            For the Democrats of west-central Indiana liberty and order were reconciled within the socioeconomic
                    fabric of the rural neighborhoods and crossroads towns in which most of them lived. The role of
                    Democratic politicians was to limit the actions of government that directly infringed upon local
                    sovereignty or that indirectly endangered it by creating powerful economic entities that could
                    financially enslave the population.14
            
            Economic liberty was rooted in the social and economic relationships that existed in rural
                    neighborhoods. Steven Hahn and other historians of the antebellum South have argued that southern
                    yeomen attempted to limit their contact with market forces through neighborhood-based exchange
                    economies. These findings appear to be applicable to the great majority of west-central Indiana
                    rural Democrats, who were, of course, overwhelmingly southern in origin. In an exchange economy
                    neighbors trade commodities and labor among themselves and become involved in the market economy
                    only to the extent necessary to obtain commodities not produced locally and the small amounts of
                    cash needed for taxes 
                  
                     13 For example, Lawrence Frederick Kohl spends most of his chapter on
                            Whig and Democratic views of social order discussing Whig ideas. He contends that the
                            Democrats had little to say on the subject except that a natural order would exist if
                            government did not intervene too much in society, while the Whigs wrote extensively about
                            ways to bring about order. Lawrence Frederick Kohl, The Politics of
                                Individualism: Parties and the American Character in the Jacksonian Era (
                                New York
                            , 1989), 145-85.
                  
                     14 Generalizations about Democratic ideology in this article that are
                            not otherwise footnoted are based on Rodgers, "Northern Political
                            Ideologies," 378-487. The analysis of Democratic ideology presented here has been
                            especially influenced by the works by Asworth and Wilson cited in footnote 12 and the
                            following works: John Ashworth, "The Jacksonian as Leveller," Journal of American Studies, XIV (December, 1980), 407-21; Marvin Meyers,
                            "Jacksonian Persuasion," American Quarterly, V (Spring,
                            1953), 3-15; Silbey, Respectable Minority; Kohl, Politics of
                                Individualism; and John William Ward, Andrew Jackson: Symbol for an
                                Age (
                                New York
                            , 1955).
               
                     and other unavoidable monetary expenses. In west-central
                    Indiana probably all rural people–regardless of party–helped and traded with
                    their neighbors. Democrats just did so more often and more systematically. One of the main economic
                    differences between banner Republican and Democratic townships was that the Republican ones had a
                    much larger per capita production of wheat and other agricultural commodities produced for
                        market.15
            
            If exchange economies limited the contact of Democrats with market forces, they could not eliminate
                    them altogether. In fact, the goal in such economies was not to eliminate contact but to ensure that
                    market forces did not take away an individual's freedom of economic action. Democrats
                    assumed that the natural economic state of society was one of a relative equality of wealth. This
                    natural state could be destroyed when government provided some individuals with undue special
                    privileges. It was the job of Democratic politicians to prevent the government from taking actions
                    that threatened the natural social state of rough equality. This was what the Sullivan Democrat meant when it carried on its masthead the phrase: "‘EQUAL
                    RIGHTS TO ALL–EXCLUSIVE PRIVILEGES TO NONE.’" During the Civil War,
                    active intervention in the economy by the Republican-dominated Congress provided Voorhees and other
                    Democrats ample opportunities to voice their traditional objections to government interference in
                    economic life.16
            
            
               
                  15 This production differential appears to indicate a more extensive
                        Republican production for market, although production differentials are not always clear-cut
                        when individual Republican and Democratic farmers are studied. On productivity and market
                        orientation of Republican and Democratic areas and individuals see Rodgers, "Northern
                        Political Ideologies," 200-207. For a demographic analysis of selected parts of
                        west-central Indiana see ibid., 69-84. Because people of rural southern
                        background predominated among the district's Democratic voters, studies of yeoman
                        social, economic, and political behavior in the South proved to be very informative. Among the
                        most useful of these studies are: Steven Hahn, The Roots of Southern Populism:
                            Yeoman Farmers and the Transformation of the 
                                Georgia
                             Upcountry, 1850-1890 (
                            New York
                        , 1983); Steven Hahn, "The Unmaking" of the Southern Yeomanry: The
                        Transformation of the 
                            Georgia
                         Upcountry, 1860-1890," in Steven Hahn and Jonathan Prude, eds., The Countryside in the Age of Capitalist Transformation: Essays in the Social
                            History of Rural America (
                            Chapel Hill
                        , 1985), 179-203; Steven Hahn, "The Yeomanry of the Nonplantation South:
                        Upper Piedmont 
                            Georgia
                        , 1850-1860," in Orville Vernon Burton and Robert C. McMath, Jr., eds., Class, Conflict, and Consensus: Antebellum Southern Community Studies (
                            Westport
                        , Conn., 1982), 29-56; John T. Schlotterbeck, "The ‘Social
                        Economy’ of an Upper South Community: 
                            Orange
                         and 
                            Greene
                         Counties, 
                            Virginia
                        , 1815-1860," in ibid,., 3-28; Robert C. Kenzer,
                        "Family, Kinship, and Neighborhood in an Antebellum Southern Community," in
                        William J. Cooper, Jr., Michael F. Holt, and John McCardell, eds., A Master's Due: Essays in Honor of David Herbert Donald (
                            Baton Rouge
                        , 1985), 138-60; and J. Mills Thornton III, Politics and Power in a
                            Slave Society: 
                                Alabama
                            , 1800-1860 (
                            Baton Rouge
                        , 1978). Some nonsouthern works that are useful are John Mack Faragher, Sugar Creek: Life on the 
                                Illinois
                                Prairie
                            
                   (
                            New Haven
                        , 1986); and Hal S. Barron, "Rediscovering the Majority: The New Rural
                        History of the Nineteenth-Century North," Historical Methods, XIX
                        (Fall, 1986), 141-52.
               
                  16 For examples of Voorhees's attacking government for creating
                        unfair economic conditions in favoring New 
                            England
                        , see Speeches, 123-24; Sullivan Democrat,
                        February 11, 1864.
            
            
            Just as Democrats relied upon local exchange economies to balance economic freedom and market forces,
                    they believed the local community could maintain both individual liberty and social order. This
                    Democratic localism had two major aspects. The first was creating and maintaining local communities
                    of shared interests and values. Each adult male could be free to do as he wished because he and the
                    other members of the community desired the same things. Because all were in broad agreement,
                    one's beliefs as well as one's liberty from external physical restraint were free
                    from challenges and threats. When a member of the community openly challenged the common viewpoints
                    of his neighbors, that person could be ostracized, beaten, or both. Such vigilante action was often
                    labeled "regulation." Regulators might crush outside threats to the community,
                    such as criminal gangs, but they also chastised errant neighbors and in some cases threw
                    nonconformists out of their neighborhoods.17
            
            The second part of localism was protecting communities from outside political interference. This
                    aspect of localism received extensive attention from Democratic orators and editors. Democrats
                    denounced many reforms, such as state-sponsored temperance, as unacceptable attempts to homogenize
                    society. Abolitionism was seen as nothing less than an attempt by New 
                        Eng-
                    landers to impose Yankee culture on the rest of America. In fact, Hoosier Democrats
                    sometimes used the term abolitionism as a kind of code word for cultural imperialism, or what
                    scholars today might call cultural hegemony. The Sullivan Democrat used this
                    definition of the term when it stated "that abolitionism is essentially monarchical, and
                    that the cry of ‘freedom for negroes’ is but a trick of kings and despots, and
                    their tools and flunkey's, to rob white men of their birthright of Liberty."18 Similarly, a Democratic pamphlet contended that abolition was designed
                    "to satisfy a craving desire, of puritan origin, to attend to every man's affairs
                    except your own."19
            
            
               
                  17 Rodgers, "Northern Political Ideologies," 87-90,
                        574-75; Elliott J. Gorn, "‘Gouge and Bite, Pull Hair and
                        Scratch’: The Social Significance of Fighting in the Southern Backcountry,"
                            American Historical Review, XC (February, 1985), 18-43; Kenneth S.
                        Greenberg, "The Nose, the Lie, and the Duel in the Antebellum South," ibid., XCV (February, 1990), 57-74; Charles S. Sydnor, "The
                        Southerner and the Laws," Journal of Social History, VI (February,
                        1940), 3-23; Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 270-73; and Bertram Wyatt-
                            Brown
                        , Southern Honor: Ethics & Behavior in the Old South (
                            New York
                        , 1982).
               
                  18 Sullivan Democrat, February 4, 1864.
               
                  19 Democratic State Central Committee, Facts for the
                        People! pamphlet ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ], 1862), 11. The Democratic party's opposition to outside forces imposing
                        values was welcomed by the district's relatively small number of foreign-born
                        Democrats, who settled mainly in 
                            Terre Haute
                         and some of the larger towns. Democratic activists in 
                            Vigo County
                         included a number of Irish and German immigrants who were engaged in the production
                        and/or distribution of alcoholic beverages. For a discussion of the appeal of the
                        southern-oriented ideology of Hoosier Democrats to various types of immigrants, see Rodgers,
                        "Northern Political Ideologies," 242-58, 428-31.
            
            
            When engaging in extralocal organizations, a person's individual liberty was restrained by
                    group loyalty. A man was free to join or not join an association, but once he chose to join he was
                    expected to be loyal to the group and to acquiesce to the will of the majority. When a Democrat
                    deserted the party he could expect the wrath of the remaining party faithful. Indiana party leaders
                    who became War Democrats were lambasted. Even Joseph Wright, the popular former Democratic governor
                    of the state, was vituperated in the Democratic press for "his … somersault from
                    democracy into the stagnating pit of abolitionism."20
            
            The Democrats of west-central Indiana believed liberty was precious and almost always endangered.
                    Democrats thought that liberty and those who possessed it were subject to repeated attacks by the
                    forces of tyranny. In fact, Voorhees understood and portrayed history as an endless series of
                    struggles between the forces of freedom and the minions of despots. In this long history of
                    struggle, America was the latest defender and champion of liberty. As Voorhees put it, 
                        In the vast and complicated annals of the past, we behold all the multiplied forms in which
                            human government has been attempted. But in all its thousand shapes, there have been but two
                            contending principles in behalf of which men have enlisted their minds in council and their
                            arms in action. The unlawful assumption of power by those who hold authority, has been
                            waging an unbroken contest with the rightful sovereignty of political institutions from the
                            earliest dawn of history to the present time. Liberty and despotism have been the two great
                            opposing forces which have convulsed the world, torn down old systems and planted new ones,
                            and marked the world's highway of progress with fields of battle. Their struggles
                            for supremacy have never ceased.21
                  
                    
            
            Hoosier Democrats believed that once America had defeated the British tyrants in the Revolution, the
                    main potential threat to liberty came from within the 
                        United States
                    . The purpose of the Union created by the Revolutionary Fathers was to allow its
                    citizens to be free. The Constitution defined the structure of the Union and was designed to prevent
                    the federal government from becoming a vehicle of despotism. As was common for Americans steeped in
                    republicanism, Voorhees saw the executive branch as the most likely source of tyrannical action.22 To safeguard liberty, the Constitution included the separation of powers not
                    only within the federal government, but between state and federal governments as well.
            
               
                  20 Sullivan Democrat, June 26, August 28, September 4,
                        1862.
               
                  21
                        Speeches, 32.
               
                  22 While Hoosier Democratic ideology shared certain concepts with the
                        republicanism of the American Revolution, so, too, did the ideology of Hoosier Republicans.
                        Neither Democratic nor Republican political ideology embodied enough of the tenets of
                        republicanism to be considered the heir of this revolutionary philosophy, even though aspects of
                        both Republican and Democratic ideology owed obvious intellectual debts to it. For more on this
                        point, see Rodgers, "Northern Political Ideologies," 680-86.
            
            
            To go beyond these basic points and fully appreciate the implications of these views on the nature of
                    the Union and the Constitution three questions need to be addressed. How did Voorhees and fellow
                    party members view human nature? What was the precise relationship between the state and federal
                    governments? And to how great a degree could the Constitution legitimately be altered?
            The key to understanding how the Democrats of west-central Indiana viewed human nature is the concept
                    of self-interest. The historian John Ashworth has found this concept to have been a central feature
                    of Democratic ideology in general.23 It was the view of Voorhees and his
                    followers that all men know and pursue their self-interest. Such a view was expressed to an English
                    traveler by a 
                        Terre Haute
                     Democrat when the visitor incredulously asked why the electorate was qualified to vote
                    on judges. The Hoosier Democrat defended the practice of judges running on party tickets and then
                    went on to say: 
                        I calculate that the people are those most interested in having a good judge; since it is for
                            themselves and to themselves that he will have to administer the law!
                        … The lawyer must have distinguished himself to have become known at all: and from
                            amongst those who have distinguished themselves, it is everybody's interest to
                            choose the best man.24
                  
                    
            
            The view of Hoosier Whigs and their Republican descendants was that men could discipline and control
                    their passions through the development of their characters over time. Men who were especially
                    successful at building their characters were capable of becoming what Whigs and Republicans called a
                    statesman: a person who sought to balance competing interests and to put the general public good
                    before their own and that of their constituents. Voorhees and his followers considered these
                    concepts of character and statesmanship to be ludicrous. They took the pessimistic view that men
                    were what they were, and no one could change basic human nature. Ironically, Democrats evolved a
                    broad egalitarian-ism from this pessimism about human nature. Since all men knew their interests and
                    no one could overcome the imperative to pursue them, all white males were equal, regardless of their
                    wealth, education, or religious piety.
            Since men were incapable of resisting the urge to follow their self-interest, all men who were given
                    powerful offices had to be watched. Men in government, Democrats thought, used their offices to
                    enrich and empower themselves and their friends and families. The interest of the majority of
                    citizens outside of government was to use the power of their numbers and votes to block leaders
                    whose 
                  
                     23 See the works by Ashworth cited in footnotes 12 and 14.
                  
                     24 J. Richard Beste, The 
                                    Wabash
                                : or Adventures of an English Gentleman's Family in the Interior of
                                America (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1855), II, 167-69.
               
                     pursuit of self-interest threatened to harm the majority and
                    infringe on its liberty. Thus, containing man's imperative to self-aggrandizement when
                    given power was an essential feature of government in a free society. As Voorhees put it: 
                        It is in the heart of man to grasp at power…. A crown with its jewels …
                            have never failed to lure the daring mind, unchastened by the love of legal liberty, to
                            tempt the dangerous heights of sole supremacy. But … resistance to the power of
                            one over many … has been obstinate, fierce, and perpetual. The love of power is
                            shared by all alike, and the laboring millions of a government cherish it as dearly as he
                            who wears away his days, and consumes his nights in feverish longings after the fleeting
                            emblems of temporal greatness. Freedom from the impositions and restraints of one supreme
                            will has been the wholesome object sought in almost every popular revolution in which
                            mankind ever engaged.25
                  
                    
            
            One way to restrain politicians from using government for their own ends was to have an electoral
                    majority control leaders as much as possible. Politicians were not elected to make decisions that
                    they thought were best; they were elected to do the will of the majority. Voorhees made this point
                    clear when he stated in published comments to his constituents: "I do not vainly imagine
                    that your devotion has been merely personal. On the contrary, I would have been as nothing in your
                    estimation, but for the principles which you maintain, and which I represent for you in
                        Congress."26 For Voorhees "the voice of the
                    people" was "the voice of God."27 Stephen Burton, a
                    Democratic state representative from 
                        Sullivan County
                     expressed the same view when he stated: "Some think me a little ultra, but,
                    while I reflect the sentiments of the people, I can't be far wrong….
                    "Vox PopulV is ‘Vox Dei’
               28
            
            Sometimes, however, even a vigilant majority could not prevent leaders from successfully pursuing
                    their own interests. This was why it was necessary for a government to have as few powers and
                    responsibilities as possible. The more power government possessed, the more power there was for
                    leaders to exploit. Furthermore, the powers given to government had to be spread among different
                    levels. For Voorhees the Union was a loose confederation. It was indissoluble, but it was so loosely
                    constructed and allowed the states so many powers that no situation would likely arise that would
                    make secession appear to be legitimately needed. As Voorhees put it: 
                        the American Union is the first confederation of States in the annals of mankind where the
                            attributes of sovereignty were allowed to remain in its individual members. Centralization
                            of power has been the bane of every confederation of which history gives any account, and
                            the brightest displays of learned statesmanship … ever beheld were made by the
                            founders of this government, in originating and adopting the means whereby that rock of
                            shipwreck and disaster might be forever avoided. 
                        
                           25
                                    Speeches, 32-33.
                        
                           26 Sullivan Democrat, May 26, 1864.
                        
                           27
                           "Speeches, 87.
                        
                           28 Indiana, Brevier Legislative Reports
                                    (1863), VI, 195-96.
                     
                            
                            
                        ADVERTISEMENT FOR A DEMOCRATIC PARTY MEETING, PUTNAM COUNTY
                                    INDIANA PRESS, SEPTEMBER 18,1858
                        Courtesy Roy O. West Library, Depauw University, 
                                        Greencastle
                                    , Ind.
                      … If this Union, through fanaticism and licentious sectional hate,
                            shall perish, shall therefore American liberty itself fail? … Who shall say when
                            the trustee becomes unfaithful, and all the methods recognized in the different departments
                            of the government have been exhausted in vain, to compel the performance of the conditions
                            on which the trust was created, that each State of this Union may not reinvest itself with
                            all its original rights, privileges, and powers? This double chance for the American citizen
                            to perpetuate his freedom is the chief glory and crowning virtue of our complex, and at the
                            same time simple and beautiful system of government.29
                  
                    
            
            Secession, in fact, was a threat to liberty in a number of ways. First, it threatened the concept of
                    majority rule. As one Hoosier Democratic publication put it: "The great crime of the South was 
                  
                     29
                            Speeches, 45-46. On Voorhees's belief that the Union was
                            indissoluble, see his rejection of Thaddeus Stevens's state suicide theory in ibid., 173. A useful background article on differing interpretations of
                            the nature of the Union before the Civil War is in Kenneth M. Stampp, The
                                Imperiled Union: Essays on the Background of the Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 1980), 3-36, 271-78.
               
                     in not fighting these [Republican] heresies inside of the
                    Union. They forsook the maxims of Jefferson, and would not ‘abide by the
                    decision’ in the election."30 Second, it threatened to
                    destroy the 
                        United States
                    , the nation that defined and championed liberty for the world.31
                    Third, it undermined liberty by making the nation smaller. It was a commonplace among Democratic
                    thinkers from Thomas Jefferson on that the larger the country was, the safer liberty would be. This
                    was because a large country was harder for a corrupt minority to dominate than a small country.
            Secession, then, was a dire threat to liberty. Yet Democrats were loath to end it by force because
                    this would require the creation of a very powerful federal army. That army could become an engine of
                    tyranny as well as a mechanism for restoring the Union. In addition, a true Union had to be held
                    together by the voluntary consent of the people, not at bayonet point. Thus, secession should be
                    ended by negotiation. As Voorhees stated in 1863: "The danger of all civil wars is a
                    military despotism. This evil is to be confronted; and to do so is a part of our
                    mission…. The restoration of the Union, too, is a cherished purpose of the Democratic
                    party. And after some time be past this will be accomplished, not in strife and blood; but in
                    compromise, harmony and peace."32 If force or the threat of force was
                    to be used it should be used in conjunction with negotiations, in the way that had proved so
                    successful, in Voorhees's view, for 
                        Washington
                     during the Whiskey Rebellion and Andrew Jackson during the Nullification Crisis.33
            
            For the Democrats of west-central Indiana, the Constitution was only one of many documents that had
                    embodied the eternal rules of liberty over the centuries. It was unique only in that it more fully
                    and effectively embodied them than the Magna Carta or any other past document, frame of rights, or
                    government. "Our constitution," Voorhees declared, "is simply one more
                    denial recorded in history of the power to transcend the written law in order to reach and injure
                    the citizen in the enjoyment of life, liberty, and property. It is simply one more declaration,
                    added to those already made, that the people possessed an inherent power to protect themselves
                    against their old enemy–executive usurpation."34 When
                    Voorhees and other Hoosier Democrats proclaimed that 
                        United States
                     war aims 
                  
                     30
                            Facts for the People!, 5. The italics are in the original.
                  
                     31 This view was reflected in a speech in which Voorhees, after noting
                            that many nations had been larger, richer, and so forth than the 
                                United States
                            , stated: "But why do the attention and interest of mankind turn from
                            them with a sense of relief and delight to the Western world? The student of ancient history
                            drops the book from his hands and forgets to resume the story in gazing at greater wonders
                            here than any which he reads. It is the spirit of liberty that has worked this
                            wonder." Sullivan Democrat, July 30, 1863.
                  
                     32 This quotation is from a speech Voorhees gave in 
                                New Hampshire
                            . A few weeks after he gave it, it was published in the Sullivan Democrat, July 30, 1863.
                  
                     33
                            Speeches, 145.
                  
                     34
                            lbid., 80.
               
                     should be the "Union as it was, and the Constitution
                    as it is," they were saying that the Union could only be preserved by strictly adhering to
                    the separation of powers expressed in the Constitution. This separation was the best rule ever
                    formulated for preserving the liberty of the individual and the sanctity of relative local autonomy.
            The right of habeas corpus was one feature of the Constitution that helped to make
                    it better than earlier charters of rights. Habeas corpus, Voorhees contended, was
                    "the active agent by which the will of the people, as expressed in the constitution and
                    laws made for their own protection, is enforced…. It was recognized at once by a race
                    unwilling to accept the doom of slaves to be a law of necessity."35
                    Even though habeas corpus was written into the Constitution, it was something that
                    transcended it. "It is one of those high, unre-pealable laws which liberty writes on the
                    hearts of all her worshipers," Voorhees thought, "and which, without the aid of
                    legislation, became a part of the common law of 
                        England
                    , simply because of that rule of God's providence, which prescribes an eternal
                    fitness of things."36 Obviously, Lincoln's suspension of habeas corpus struck, in the Democrat's view, at a core feature of the
                    constitutional guarantees of liberty and at divine, natural law.
            In demanding a return to "the Union as it was," Democrats were also suggesting, of
                    course, that something had changed for the worse. This change, in their view, was the drive by New 
                        England
                     abolitionists and the Republican party to abolish slavery and to remake the Union in a
                    Yankee/Republican image. This attempt to create a cultural hegemony threatened the localism that was
                    a vital part of the Democratic conception of liberty. It was the root cause of the disunion crisis.
                    Voorhees charged that "the descendants of a bigoted and speculating class now seek to
                    absorb the right to think, the right to act, and the right to possess and enjoy, for, and in the
                    place of, and to the exclusion of all who exist outside of their malignant circle."37 As for the Confederates, "in their estimation," Voorhees
                    contended, they seceded in order "to preserve the integrity of their local laws, their
                    social institutions, [and] the right to control their domestic affairs free from federal
                        interference."38 The Sullivan Democrat voiced
                    similar thoughts: "if the mother [of the war] was a Southern party … the father
                    was Northern fanaticism and anti-slavery, and the child of shame bears more resemblance to the
                    father than to the mother."39
            
            
               
                  35
                        Ibid., 82.
               
                        36
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  37
                        Ibid., 47.
               
                  38
                        Ibid., 152.
               
                  39 Sullivan Democrat, January 23, 1862. While it is
                        clear that Voorhees and most other Hoosier Democrats thought secession was wrong, one rarely
                        finds denunciations of the South or of secessionists that are anywhere near as vehement as their
                        condemnations of Republicans, abolitionists, and New 
                            England
                        .
            
            
            Democratic fears of Republican intentions to dominate the nation were expressed from the early days
                    of the war. For example, in June, 1861, a Hoosier Democratic leader wrote in a private letter to
                    Voorhees that he believed: 
                        that an attempt will be made to place the whole country under military rule, that all the
                            means of the government will be employed to arm the minions of the administration and to
                            disarm all opponents, that an absolute reign of terror will be inaugurated, and when the
                            means of resistance of the masses are removed a military despotism will rule until all state
                            rights under this constitutional organization shall have been abolished and a monarchy
                            absolute or limited established…. I look upon this war as much and more a war
                            upon the democracy than anything else…. A state forced to obedience at the point
                            of the bayonet I regard as much & more a subversion of the government than secession
                                itself….40
                  
                    
            
            Voorhees opposed any fundamental change in the Constitution or the nature of the Union. He did not
                    see the Constitution as a flexible and amendable document. In his view amendments that introduced
                    fundamental changes in the Constitution were invalid. The Constitution embodied eternal laws and
                    principles that guaranteed freedom. If one altered it so profoundly that it ceased to embody these
                    concepts, then it became not a bastion of liberty, but a vehicle for tyranny. In essence, this was
                    the Democratic variation of "higher law," and Voorhees invoked it when he came out
                    in ardent opposition to the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution. Commenting on this amendment,
                    the Hoosier congressman said: 
                        the constitution does not authorize an amendment to be made, by which any State or citizen
                            shall be divested of acquired rights of property or of established political franchises. The
                            construction which our fathers gave to the constitution, and to which we have all hitherto
                            adhered, guaranteed to the slaveholding States the right of property in slaves….
                            It is true that the provision of the constitution which authorizes its amendment, is very
                            broad…. But it is always implied as a limitation of power, that a well-settled
                            principle of public law shall not be violated. To majorities are intrusted great and
                            diversified powers, but among them … is never granted the power to rob a minority
                            of its vested rights.41
                  
                    
            
            Voorhees defined the 
                        United States
                     as more an idea than a place. The Union, he thought, was defined by certain ideas and
                    values, not by geographical boundaries. The Constitution was the 
                  
                     40 Joseph Ristine to Daniel Voorhees, June 20, 1861, manuscript 130,
                            Carring-ton Family Papers (Manuscripts and Archives, Yale University Library,
                                    
                        New Haven, Connecticut
                     ). Ristine was a Democratic leader in 
                                Fountain County
                             and the state auditor during 1863–1864. This letter was part of the
                            correspondence seized during a raid on Voorhees's office in 
                                Terre Haute
                             in 1864. Parts of the letter were reprinted in Union State Central Committee,
                                Record of the Disloyal Democracy (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1866). Although it was obviously a partisan publication, the things quoted in
                            this pamphlet are accurate, though very selective. It contains a number of local Democratic
                            wartime resolutions that reflect views very similar to those expressed by Voorhees.
                  
                     41
                            Speeches, 178-79. Bayless Hanna, a 
                                Vigo County
                             Democrat, made a similar argument before the Indiana Senate. Indiana, Brevier Legislative Reports (1865), VII, 197-99.
               
                     embodiment of those basic ideas. Thus, to alter substantially
                    the Constitution was tantamount to destroying America. As Voorhees put it: 
                        But does mere land and water, mere extent of soil, constitute the life of this nation? No,
                            sir; immortal liberty is its life–the soul which animates the body–and
                            without which the mere form of our government will be a cold and lifeless
                            corpse…. The constitution is my country, and I have no country outside of its
                                provisions.42
                  
                    
            
            The Constitution, the separation of powers, and even majority rule were not enough–as the
                    Civil War crisis illustrated–to preserve liberty. Ultimately, it was the vigilance of
                    individual free men that guaranteed liberty for all. In normal times, this vigilance was
                    accomplished through the expression of the will of the majority in elections. But in times of crisis
                    men who truly possessed and truly deserved liberty had to be ready to do more than vote. What was it
                    they had to be ready to do? What was it, in Voorhees's view, that distinguished free men
                    from those who were not free?
            A cursory reading of the passages about free men in Voorhees's speeches suggests that he
                    gave a racial definition to the question of who was free and who deserved to be free. Voorhees often
                    referred to the Anglo-Saxon peoples as "the race of liberty." How the Anglo-Saxons
                    achieved this status was something about which Voorhees was ambiguous. In some speeches he suggested
                    that their propensity for liberty was a divine gift: "that divine emanation from the bosom
                    of God to the soul of man." In others he suggested a kind of frontier thesis in which the
                    Anglo-Saxon experience in the forest wildernesses of early Europe somehow turned them into lovers of
                    a liberty that "arose from the fresh, untamed regions of Northern Europe with all the
                    newness of life–with the bounding energy of a youthful giant."43
            
            If Voorhees was vague about how Anglo-Saxons came to possess liberty, he was quite definite about the
                    characteristics of free men and what they must do to maintain their liberty. Voorhees's
                    description of the numerous past struggles between liberty and tyranny makes it clear that other
                    races were at one time people of liberty. The Jews of the Old Testament, the ancient Greeks, the
                    citizens of the Roman Republic, and other peoples had, for a time, been the race of liberty.44 In fact, in spite of all his racial rhetoric, a close reading of
                    Voorhees's speeches makes it clear that what ultimately defined the man of liberty was not
                    race but personality 
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., 96.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., 37, 98, 101. Note how the last quotation is reminiscent of John
                            William Ward's description of the American character's being influenced by
                            what he calls nature and providence. Ward's discussion of will, nature, and
                            providence is especially useful if one limits his interpretation to Democrats rather than
                            applying it, as Ward does, to all Americans. See Ward, Andrew Jackson.
                  
                     44 On this aspect of history see Speeches,
                        81.
               
                     traits. In particular, it was the free man's will to
                    fight for his freedom that distinguished him from the rest of mankind.
            Like so much else in Democratic thinking, will was a spontaneous quality; it was not something
                    learned or developed. As noted above, Whigs and Republicans believed that a man could be truly free
                    only after undertaking a long and arduous process of self-discipline. For Democrats liberty was
                    freedom from outside restraints. What Voorhees's definition of a free man made clear was
                    that anyone who deserved to be free of outside controls had to be willing to resist any restrictions
                    placed on him by others.46
            
            Voorhees's interpretation of the American Revolution reflected his views on the
                    characteristics of the free man. For Voorhees the Founding Fathers were great men, not so much
                    because of their character and their republican virtue, but because they fought back when tyrants
                    tried to take away their freedom. The Founding Fathers had the will to use violence to protect their
                    liberty. This will to fight to the death for liberty, this "honest, upright
                    manhood," was the defining characteristic of the free man, the man of liberty. Every free
                    people of the past had possessed this will. When they ceased to have it, when they gave in to
                    "luxury, sloth, and indifference," they lost their freedom to a despot. Once a
                    people lost their liberty, they never regained it. Another race of liberty arose to take their
                        place.46 Voorhees and his fellow Democrats praised the sagacity of the
                    Founding Fathers, but when they talked about being able to live up to their standards and preserve
                    liberty, what they talked about, primarily, was the guts of the Fathers, not their wisdom.47
            
            The crude race-baiting that Voorhees and the Hoosier Democratic press increasingly engaged in during
                    the Civil War was a blatant appeal to bigotry, but it was more than this. Voorhees and others used
                    racial stereotypes to turn the black slaves of the South into the negative referent of the man of
                    liberty. In their rhetorical portrayals, slaves were not simply members of an inferior race, they
                    were also men who lacked the qualities of free men. Male slaves were depicted as lacking resolution
                    and courage and as being meek and passive virtually to the point of being like little children. In
                    the thinking of the Democrats, the black slave did not deserve freedom because he was a slave.
                    Anyone who would allow himself to be a slave could never be worthy of liberty. In effect, slaves
                    deserved to be slaves because they were slaves. Anyone who believed that southern slaves could be
                    made into good citizens was attempting to overturn the natural order. Thus one Seventh District
                    Democratic paper referred to the "ideas of the Abolitionists" as 
                  
                     45 On Republican ideology in this and the following paragraphs, see
                            the works cited in footnote 12.
                  
                     46
                     Speeches, 66, 88, 127-36.
                  
                     47 See, for example, ibid., 58-59, 101.
               
                     being "insane, fanatical and suicidal." And
                    Voorhees referred to the freedom Republicans planned to give slaves as a "worthless
                        liberty."48
            
            Like black men, women had no meaningful place in the Democrats' conception of the political
                    realm. Republicans in west-central Indiana had no intention of allowing women to vote, but their
                    conception of liberty created a niche in which women, whom they and others often stereotyped as
                    being morally superior, could be permitted to participate in many political and other public forums.
                    For Republicans, women had a duty to reinforce the values that provided the vital foundation of the
                    Republican conceptions of liberty and social order. Republican women gave patriotic speeches to
                    mixed audiences and published pro-Union prose and poetry. They formed soldiers' relief
                    organizations. They were involved before and after the war in reform organizations. They even served
                    as officers in mixed male and female temperance organizations.49
            
            
               
                  48
                        Ibid., 153, 172-82; 
                            Greene County
                        
                        Southern Indianian, March 26, 1863. For examples of Democratic appeals to
                        racism see Sullivan Democrat, September 4, 1862, June 11, August 13, September
                        17, October 1, 1863. For background on the Democrats and racism see: Baker, Affairs
                            of the Party, 212-58; Stephen E. Mai-zlish, "Race and Politics in the Northern
                        Democracy: 1854-1860," in Robert H. Abzug and Stephen E. Maizlish, eds., New Perspectives on Race and Slavery in America: Essays in Honor of Kenneth M. Stampp (
                            Lexington
                        , Ky., 1986), 79-90; Sil-bey, Respectable Minority, 80-83; Emma
                        Lou Thornbrough, "The Race Issue in Indiana Politics during the Civil War,"
                            Indiana Magazine of History, XL VII (June, 1951), 165-88; and V. Jacque
                        Voegeli, Free but Not Equal: The Midwest and the Negro during the Civil War (
                            Chicago
                        , 1967). Note that the Democrats' position on race reflected their more
                        general view that there were natural limits to how much men could change or be changed and,
                        consequently, to how much society could be reformed. Thus, Democratic race-baiting and
                        criticisms of abolitionism were not simply and exclusively aimed at efforts to end slavery but
                        were also attacks on many of the vast array of reforms and ideas they found both absurd and
                        threatening. As a means of attacking the Republican agenda of social reform and activist,
                        positive government, the race-baiting approach had great potential because it resonated so well
                        with basic Democratic beliefs and because in order to counterattack Republicans had to defend
                        black abilities in a society where racist assumptions of black inferiority were widespread, even
                        among Republicans.
               
                  49 For Republican views on women and the wartime activities of Republican
                        women see: Louise C. Manning, "Presentation of Flag to 43rd Regiment at 
                            Evansville
                        , 1861," typescript, War (IN) Civil folder, Misc. Papers (
                            Vigo County
                         Public Library, 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Ind.); 
                            Parke County
                        
                        Republican, January 27, 1859, August 13, 1862, April 8, 1863, February 1,
                        1865; 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                        
                     
                                Wabash
                             Express (weekly), April 29, 1863; Report of the Ladies Aid
                            Society, 2-5, printed report beginning with 1869, in Rose Ladies Aid Society, folder 1,
                        box 800114 (
                            Vigo County
                         Public Library Archives, 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Ind.); and Rodgers, "Northern Political Ideologies," 107-109,
                        372-75. For background on the public roles of women in the nineteenth century see: Paula Baker,
                        "The Domestication of Politics: Women and American Political Society,
                        1780-1920," American Historical Review, LXXXIX (June, 1984), 620-47;
                        Anne M. Boylan, "Women and Politics in the Era before Seneca Falls," Journal of the Early Republic, X (Fall, 1990), 363-82; Stephanie McCurry,
                        "The Two Faces of Republicanism: Gender and Proslavery Politics in Antebellum 
                            South Carolina
                        ," Journal of American History, LXXVIII (March, 1992),
                        1245-64; Carroll Smith Rosenberg, "Beauty, the Beast and the Militant Woman: A Case
                        Study in Sex Roles and Social Stress in Jacksonian America," American
                            Quarterly, XXIII (October, 1971), 562-84; Mary P. Ryan, Women in Public:
                            Between Banners and Ballots, 1825-1880
               
            
            
            There is little evidence of similar public activity on the part of Democratic women. For example, in
                    Sullivan, the Seventh District's banner 
                        Democratic county
                    , the two major committees of the Ladies' Aid Society together contained nine
                    men and only six women. At least two-thirds of these women were Republicans, a remarkable fact
                    considering that nearly three-fourths of Sullivan's voters were Democrats. Democratic women
                    orators, authors, and poets were noticeably absent from Sullivan. Of the two female reform
                    organization officers that were found in the county, one was a Republican and the other could not be
                    identified by party. Democratic women simply did not play the same range of political and other
                    public roles as did Republican women. The near total exclusion of Democratic women from the
                    political realm was consistent with Voorhees's view of the person who deserved the full
                    status of a free citizen. For Voorhees, the man of liberty was defined by will and aggression,
                    attributes nineteenth-century Americans considered masculine.50
            
            After the tumultuous legislative session of 1863, themes of will, violence, and liberty became ever
                    more prominent in the speeches and editorials of Voorhees and other west-central Indiana Democratic
                    spokesmen. These leaders attempted to prepare their constituents for the use of force while trying
                    to contain premature outbreaks of rank-and-file violence. Elections represented the key determinant
                    as to when violence was justified. Democrats had felt all along that the Republicans were bent on
                    imposing their agenda on the country at any cost. Morton's assumption of illegal powers in
                    Indiana, the forced exile of Clement Vallandigham from 
                        Ohio
                    , the 
                  (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1990), especially 132-58; Catherine Clinton and Nina Silber, eds., Divided Houses: Gender and the Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 1992); Elizabeth D. Leonard, Yankee Women: Gender Battles in the
                                Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 1994). For background on antebellum conceptions of women and their proper
                            sphere see: John Mack Faragher, Women and Men on the Overland Trail (
                                New Haven
                            , 1979), especially 110-43; Barbara Welter, "The Cult of True
                            Womanhood: 1820-1860," American Quarterly, XVIII (Summer, 1966),
                            151-74; Nancy F. Cott, The Bonds of Womanhood: "Woman's
                                Sphere" in New 
                                    England
                                , 1780-1835 (
                                New Haven
                            , 1977); and Nancy A. Hewitt, "Beyond the Search for Sisterhood:
                            American Women's History in the 1980s," Social History,
                            X (October, 1985), 299-321.
                  
                     50
                            History of 
                                    Greene
                                 and 
                                    Sullivan Counties
                                , State of Indiana … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 602-603; Sullivan Democrat, February 6, 1862. That
                            women were not generally associated with defined masculine qualities of courage, will, and
                            so forth is suggested by an incident that took place in a military unit from the district.
                            Two captured deserters were punished by losing six months' pay and by being
                            "dressed in women's clothes and marched up and down the battalion at the
                            point of the bayonet." Samuel H. Mattox to his mother and father, January 16, 1863,
                            typescript, SpC. B, M4368, G.C., Diary and Civil War Letters of Samuel H. Mattox (
                                Vigo County
                             Public Library). While Democratic views were basically determined by the men of
                            southern heritage who were the majority of the district's voters, it is worth
                            noting that the district's Irish-born Democrats probably had views on women that
                            were similar to those of voters of southern background. On male Irish immigrant attitudes
                            towards women see Hasia R. Diner, Erin's Daughters in America: Irish
                                Immigrant Women in the Nineteenth Century (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1983).
               
                     military arrests, and the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus validated and intensified their already existing fears of potential
                    Republican tyranny. However, as long as reasonably free elections were held, the Democrats of
                    west-central Indiana would fight for their liberty at the ballot box.51
            
            The interconnections of liberty, will, violence, and fair elections were forcefully expressed by
                    Voorhees in a speech he gave in 
                        Ohio
                     on behalf of the exiled Democratic gubernatorial candidate Clement L. Vallandigham. His
                    defiant speech there received wide circulation in the Seventh District. In this speech he stated:
                        
                        These Governors [Morton of Indiana and Yates of 
                                Illinois
                            ] tell the great state of 
                                Ohio
                             that if she dares to select a man as her Chief Magistrate who is obnoxious to
                            them and the President, war will be levied against her…. They threaten the
                            streets of your cities with blood…. The horrible alternative was held up before
                            you. Take Brough for Governor, or take civil war and the fate of 
                                Missouri
                            . Are you slaves? Shall these men come here and crack their whips over your
                            heads? Are you to be terrified like wayward children into submission?
                        … If… we are attacked by Brough, Morton or Yates, or all
                            combined,–the President himself and all his followers … we will return
                            blow for blow….
                        Let American freemen everywhere throw off their lethargy and prepare for the conflict.
                            Cowardice invites oppression. Defiance often stops its advances. But, whether it recedes or
                            approaches, it is the duty of men determined to be free to remember that eternal vigilance
                            is the price of liberty. It may be hard to die … but it is still harder to a
                            brave spirit to lay his mouth to the dust and accept the polluted hoof of power on his
                            prostrate neck…. Nor, in such a conflict, will we fail. It will be as holy and
                            just as that in which our fathers enacted the revolution…. I call on the
                            Democracy of the nation … to rally with arms in their hands to the rescue of the
                            principles of self government. And in that hour, if I fail to do what becomes a man of free
                            birth, determined to die free, … then strike my name from the books of your
                            remembrance, and let… the disgrace rest upon my name forever.52
                  
                    
            
            In a similar vein the Southern Indianian, the Democratic organ in 
                        Greene County
                    , warned that if Republicans continued to suspend habeas corpus and
                    other basic rights that "it is not unreasonable to suppose, that forbearance will at last
                    cease to be a virtue, and that the people will avail themselves of the last remedy in their
                    reach–revolution; and by a general uprising shake off the manacles of despotism, and hurl
                    pretenders and usurpers from those high places, which they have disgraced in the eyes of every
                        freeman."53 In private correspondence Democrats were saying similar
                        
                  
                     51 After telling a Democratic audience that Morton had armed men ready
                            to keep Democrats from voting in the 1864 elections, 
                                Terre Haute
                             Democratic editor Grafton F. Cookerly stated, "Fellow Democrats, if we
                            can't beat them at the ballot-box[,] we can at the cartridge-box." 
                                Parke County
                            
                            Republican, August 17, 1864.
                  
                     52 Sullivan Democrat, October 13,1863. The 
                                Greene County
                            
                            Southern Indianian, September 8, 1863, praised Voorhees when he announced
                            that he had decided to campaign for Vallandigham in 
                                Ohio
                            . Voorhees became personally involved in violence in 1864. At the National Hotel
                            in 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., Voorhees engaged in a fistfight with Republican 
                                United States
                             Senator Zachariah Chandler of 
                                Michigan
                            . 
                                Greene County
                            
                            Southern Indianian, June 14, 1864.
                  
                     53
                     Ibid., June 4, 1863. Democratic leaders often
                            asked for both calm and for Democrats to prepare for a fight in the same speech or
                            editorial. They seemed to be
               
                     things. One Democratic voter confided to his son in a private
                    letter that: "I think the Republicans and the democrats will be engaged in a war all over
                    the united states[.] I fully believe it will come to that[.] I will hope to the better and prepare
                    to meet the worst[.]54
            
            The Democratic ideology outlined here was more than just a set of ideas and beliefs. Ideology
                    influences what one sees as well as what one believes. Democrats in west-central Indiana viewed the
                    world through ideologically colored glasses. The reality that they saw was a reality different from
                    that perceived by Republicans and by modern historians who choose to look only at events of the time
                    without considering the ideological factor. When one begins to understand their ideology, one can
                    begin to see the logic of Democratic behavior. Democrats acted consistently and rationally within
                    the reality their ideology defined.
            The Democrats of west-central Indiana were not disloyal to the Union. They were loyal to their own
                    definition of the Union. And the Democratic Union was threatened by Republicans as well as by
                    southern rebels. Hoosier Democrats of southern origins did not support the Confederacy because of
                    their ancestral ties. They opposed secession. What influence southern origins had was translated
                    through the Democratic ideological views and the socioeconomic habits that were brought from the
                    South. Democrats were conditioned by their ideology to expect tyrannical attacks on liberty. They
                    anticipated an aggressive and dangerous Republicanism, and their ideology focused their vision on
                    those actions of the Republican Morton and Lincoln administrations that confirmed their fears of
                    potential Republican tyranny. Democrats did not engage in irrational partisanship. They were not
                    blind to the danger the nation faced. Democrats responded logically within the parameters of their
                    ideology to the threats to America they believed and perceived to exist. Finally, the existence of
                    nonexistence of formal antigovernment plots by Harrison Dodd or others is not as important as the
                    fact that probably most Hoosier Democrats felt that their liberty was in mortal danger and that they
                    might be required to resort to violence to protect it. If they were not allowed to defend their
                    freedom with the ballot, then their ideologically conditioned view of current events and of history
                    and their sense of self-worth and self-definition–their manhood–demanded that
                    they, like their Revolutionary fathers, exhibit the necessary will to defend their liberty through
                    violent means.
            
               saying the time for violence had not come, but that it could very quickly. For a good example
                        of this see ibid., March 26, 1863.
               
                  54 J. W. Smith to B. W. Smith, January 23, 1863, typescript, Smith
                        Letters, SpC, 929.2 L, G.C. (
                            Vigo County
                         Public Library).
            
         
         
         
            Looking Back
            The Truman Books
            
                    Robert H. Ferrell
                    ∗
                
            It is no exaggeration to say that any major public figure, notably a president of the 
                        United States
                    , can count on appraisals that run a gamut from fair to unfair, from works of
                    scholarship to works of malevolence. Such has been the case with books about Harry S. Truman. He of
                    course was aware that writers would not always treat him well. He was a student–although
                    not always a thorough student–of history, and he enjoyed relating how nineteenth-century
                    New 
                        England
                     historians treated President Thomas Jefferson for undertaking the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase. The doubling of American territory by a stroke of Jefferson's pen,
                    when he signed the treaty with Napoleonic 
                        France
                    , added a vast frontier region to the country that was bound to overwhelm the Federalist
                    party and, by New 
                        England
                     lights, wreck the very basis for the Union. The New 
                        England
                     historians, the twentieth-century president wrote, took it out on Jefferson. As for
                    himself, he believed the historians would take it out on him because of his use of nuclear weapons
                    on 
                        Japan
                    , the program of great measures (Truman Doctrine, Marshall Plan, North Atlantic Treaty)
                    that changed American foreign policy from isolation to participation in world affairs, and the
                    Korean War. In domestic affairs they would take it out on him because he sought to follow the New
                    Deal of his predecessor with his own Fair Deal. The historians would believe the calumnies of
                    Republican newspaper owners, which had no basis other than their own opinions.
            Truman liked to read biographies and admired the Indiana historian Claude Bowers who at long last
                    gave Jefferson his due. He liked Marquis James's books about his historical hero, President
                    Andrew Jackson. The historians made fun of James, but Truman was an historian, too, and he liked to
                    read about how the "gin-ral" bested his enemies, all for the good of the republic.
            Nonetheless he admitted to himself and anyone who would listen that he did not expect the historians
                    immediately to be favor- 
                  
                     ∗Robert H. Ferrell was a member of the history department
                            of Indiana University in 
                                Bloomington
                             from 1953 until his retirement in 1988. There he taught the history of American
                            diplomacy and foreign policy. He is the author of books in his teaching field and has
                            published ten books on Harry S. Truman
               
                     able to his own administration. Time would be necessary for the
                    truth to come out.
            Truman did take one measure to avoid the distortions of the historians. This was to authorize a book
                    by his friend Jonathan Daniels, son of Josephus Daniels, who had been secretary of the navy during
                    the Woodrow Wilson administration. Jonathan Daniels had been a White House assistant during the
                    Franklin D. Roosevelt administration and for a few days in the Truman administration was
                    presidential press secretary. But Truman thought the younger Daniels was too much a scholar, not
                    attuned to the ways of newspapermen, even though he had a connection with his father's
                    newspaper, the Raleigh News and Observer. The president replaced him with a high
                    school classmate, Charles G. Ross, a Pulitzer prizewinner with the 
                        St. Louis
                    
                    Post-Dispatch. It may indeed have been with some feeling of having been unfair to
                    Daniels or a fear that he had hurt Daniels's feelings that he allowed Daniels to do an
                    authorized biography. In any event he trusted Daniels and hence wrote letters of introduction for
                    him to relatives and friends in Independence and 
                        Kansas City
                    . Moreover, Truman himself talked at length with Daniels.
            The resultant book (The Man of Independence, 1950) was a triumph of the authorized
                    biographer's art. It was always interesting, if overblown in its writing. Daniels, one
                    thinks, pumped up his book's pages to get from there to here. He put in celebrations of the
                    American political past and of the Democratic party during that past and discussions of the obvious.
                    The book came close to overwriting. Yet Daniels had gone out to Independence and 
                        Kansas City
                     and spoken with Truman's contemporaries and even some of his elders. Daniels
                    set down their memories a decade before the archivists of the Harry S. Truman Library in
                    Independence began to do oral histories. By that latter time, in the 1960s, many of
                    Truman's contemporaries and elders had passed on. Moreover, as Daniels interviewed
                    administration figures, including the president, he obtained a considerable amount of inside
                    information. If separated from the book's celebrations of the Democracy and other
                    extraneous explanations, this information is valuable. The book, therefore, is the only work from
                    the first generation of Truman books that amounts to anything and is worth reading with care.
            Remarking on other first-generation books beyond that of Daniels is hardly worth the effort. A
                    reporter who knew Truman during the Senate years, William P. Helm of the 
                        Kansas City
                    
                    Journal-Post, had a few interesting things to say, including a story of how in
                    1941 he persuaded Truman to arrange an investigating committee for the war effort. That committee
                    brought Truman to national attention and made him available for the vice-presidential nomination in
                    1944 (Harry Truman: A Political Biography, 1947). A Republican department store
                    owner in Independence, Henry A.  Bundschu, published what he
                    described as a biography of the president in 1949, this with the printing facilities of the 
                        Kansas City
                    
                    Star (Harry S. Truman: The Missourian). Bundschu's account was hardly
                    more than a pamphlet, a few dozen pages. He had known Truman and had good stories, and although a
                    Republican he was fairminded (Truman might have said) because he came from 
                        Missouri
                    , not New 
                        England
                    .
            One turns to what in retrospect seems to have been a second wave of scholarship on Truman: two
                    biographies that appeared in the 1960s, and a considerable number of historical monographs on the
                    Truman administration.
            The biographies were well-done, considering Truman's political eclipse during Dwight D.
                    Eisenhower's presidency and the paucity of available sources on Truman. The Truman
                    Library's oral history program was just getting started, and only the general files of the
                    Truman administration were open to researchers. The two authors, Cabell Phillips of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times and free-lance writer Alfred Steinberg, must have had little encouragement
                    apart from their own interest. But again, they did well, considering the times and the lack of
                    material. Phillips (The Truman Presidency, 1966) possessed thorough knowledge of
                    the Truman presidency, for he had reported for the Times throughout those years.
                    He was an incisive, well-organized writer. Steinberg (The Man from 
                            Missouri
                        , 1962) also was a good writer, expert at putting together disparate sources,
                    whether interviews with people who had known Truman or memoirs and articles. Steinberg's
                    was no book to ignore, even though Harry S. Truman, in annotating his copy, described its author as
                    a liar. As the old president thumbed the book he wrote his impressions in the margins:
                    "Never happened." "Another big lie!" "Another
                    lie." "Not a word of truth in the paragraph." "Lie."
                    "Another lie." "Wrong again." Phillips meanwhile had irritated
                    Truman by asking to see his private papers. For that matter, so had Steinberg, who one time accosted
                    Truman when the latter was taking one of his morning walks. To both of these friendly biographers
                    the president said, in effect and possibly in so many words, that he would open his papers when he
                    was good and ready. The books had to be written without the assistance of their subject's
                    papers or, contrary to the case with Daniels, extended interviews and letters of introduction. With
                    these limitations the books were helpful to readers and informative. They came as close as the
                    authors could get to their subject.
            The monographs on Truman that appeared in this second wave were drawn from similar
                    sources–the Truman Library's general files together with whatever collections of
                    private papers were open, most of them also in the Truman Library. These books were usually by
                    academic scholars who used newspapers and the Con-
                    
                    
                  HARRY S. TRUMAN
                  
                  U. S. Army, courtesy Harry S. Truman Library, Independence, 
                                Missouri
                            .
               
                    
                    gressional Record and articles in scholarly journals that themselves suffered from
                    the same limitations on sources.1
            
            A third grouping of the Truman literature consisted of the books that came out in the 1970s. Here
                    again there were two biographies. The one by Margaret Truman was by and large a worthwhile volume
                        (Harry S. Truman, 1972). Written with the assistance of Thomas Fleming, it
                    contained novelties, for the president's daughter was as forthright as her father and had
                    been in a position to know a great deal. It is an affectionate book and defensive, and Margaret
                    Truman made no effort to hide her partisanship. She showed her father as an enormously hardworking
                    chief executive, doing his best for the country over not merely the years of the presidency, but the
                    twenty years of county and Senate office-holding that preceded them.
            The other biography that came out at this time was Plain Speaking: An Oral Biography of
                        Harry S. Truman (1974) by the newspaperman and writer Merle Miller. Based on tapings of the
                    president in 1960-1961 in preparation for a television series that failed to attract network
                    sponsorship, the book entranced reviewers and readers and many scholars. The latter have quoted from
                    its pages down to the present time. Margaret Truman's book had sold well, into the hundreds
                    of thousands of copies. Miller's book sold even better: in two years 500,000 hardcover
                    copies and 1.25 million paperbacked copies. Margaret Truman, one should add, did not like
                    Miller's book at all. To a 
                        Kansas City
                     reporter she said that her father undoubtedly said the things that were in the book but
                    that Miller, who had been a writer for the proposed television series, had no right to use the
                    tapes. She was not certain, she said, about who owned the tapes and presumed that ownership was
                    subject to common law copyright, the same as letters, by which the writer of a letter possesses
                    copyright even though the recipient or someone else holds the letter.
            
               
                  1 Ronald J. Caridi, The Korean War and American Politics (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1968); Richard Dalfiume, Desegregation of the U.S. Armed Forces:
                            Fighting on Two Fronts, 1939-1953 (
                            Columbia
                        , Mo., 1969); Richard O. Davies, Housing Reform during the Truman
                            Administration (
                            Columbia
                        , Mo., 1966); Robert A. Divine, Second Chance: The Triumph of
                            Internationalism in America during World War II (
                            New York
                        , 1967); Herbert Druks, Harry S. Truman and the Russians (
                            New York
                        , 1966); Ronald T. Farrar, Reluctant Servant: The Story of Charles G.
                            Ross (
                            Columbia
                        , Mo., 1969); Robert H. Ferrell, George C. Marshall (
                            New York
                        , 1965); John Gimbel, The American Occupation of 
                                Germany
                            : Politics and the Military, 1945-1949 (
                            Stanford
                        , Calif., 1968); Alan D. Harper, The Politics of Loyalty: The White
                            House and the Communist Issue, 1946-1952 (
                            Westport
                        , Conn., 1969); R. Alton Lee, Truman and Taft-Hartley: A Question of
                            Mandate (
                            Lexington
                        , Ky., 1966); Arthur F. McClure, The Truman Administration and the
                            Problems of Postwar Labor, 1945-1948 (
                            Rutherford
                        , N.J., 1969); Allen J. Matusow, Farm Policies and Politics in the
                            Truman Years (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1967); Donald H. Riddle, The Truman Committee: A Study of
                            Congressional Responsibility (
                            New Brunswick
                        , N.J., 1964); Irwin Ross, The Loneliest Campaign: The Truman Victory
                            of 1948 (
                            New York
                        , 1968); Richard L. Walker, E. R. Stettinius, Jr., and George
                        Curry, James F. Byrnes (The American Secretaries of State and their Diplomacy,
                        Vol. XTV; 
                            New York
                        , 1965).
            
            
            The Miller book deserves attention because so many copies are in the hands of readers who accept it
                    as containing the president's very words. Only recently has it been possible to check the
                    book out. Suffice it to say that although the book was published by a reputable 
                        New York
                     firm, 
                        Putnam
                    , and has had a long life and is still in print, it was a gross literary fraud. Miller
                    took unpardonable liberties with the president's words on tape. Actually Miller had little
                    to do with the tapings themselves. Two friends of the president, the radio reporter William Hillman
                    and a public relations man and former presidential assistant, David Noyes, asked the questions with
                    Miller occasionally chiming in. Somehow the tapes came into Miller's possession, and he
                    used them for all they were worth and a good deal more. Years after bringing out his book, and after
                    a reported public row with Margaret Truman, he gave the tapes to the Lyndon B. Johnson Library in
                    Austin, 
                        Texas
                    . Austin was a remote locality, -and the self-designated oral biographer ensured the
                    tapes' remoteness by closing them. He died in 1986, and in 1993 officials of the Johnson
                    and Truman libraries realized that the tapes had not belonged to Miller in the first place and
                    opened them. The opening was heralded by a press release, and the present writer drove out from 
                        Bloomington
                     to Independence for the occasion. No one else turned up except a National Park Service
                    researcher who spent a half hour, found nothing about the Ethel and Nellie Noland house at 216 North 
                        Delaware
                     across the street from the Truman house at 219 North 
                        Delaware
                    , and went away. After listening to the tapes and attempting to transcribe them with a
                    primitive recorder purchased at a local discount store, I gave up and ordered copies and had them
                    transcribed. Miller's modus operandi thereupon stood revealed. He changed
                    Truman's words in countless ways, sometimes improving the literary effect. Adding or
                    subtracting words, he thoughtfully added his own opinions. He inserted his favorite cuss words,
                    damning Truman for a generation as a foul-mouthed old man. He cutely claimed the president to have
                    been a drinker, of having imbibed during the taping sessions by stepping out for (he
                    presumed–he had no way of knowing) "small libations." He said he
                    accompanied the president to a Howard Johnson restaurant near the Truman Library–a
                    preposterous claim, for Truman would have been overwhelmed with autograph seekers. There, in the
                    restaurant, Miller and Truman drank more libations. Worst of all, Miller made up many pages in his
                    book, inventing whole chapters. The material on President Eisenhower, which consumes much of the
                    book, is almost entirely invention. Notably the tapes say nothing about the story that attracted
                    readers the most of anything in the book. This was the detailing of an alleged intervention by
                    General George C. Marshall (all this is in Truman's words) against Eisenhower, who during
                    the war (according to Miller) desired a divorce from his wife so he could marry his pretty driver
                    and receptionist.  Kay Summersby. It is possible that Miller
                    obtained such gossip from Truman's military aide, Major General Harry H. Vaughan, who after
                    the book came out vouched for the story.
            The Truman monographs of the 1970s, books that were various and sundry in their subjects, often
                    reflected the passions of the 
                        Vietnam
                     War, which had come to a crisis in 1968 and then wound down until the collapse of South 
                        Vietnam
                     in 1975. The present essay is no place to explore the extraordinary scholarly
                    confusions of the 1960s and 1970s coincident with 
                        Vietnam
                    . Suffice it to say that scholarship tended to focus on the Truman years because, many
                    scholars concluded, 
                        United States
                     foreign policy had taken a wrong turn in the late 1940s with the beginning of the Cold
                    War. The Cold War, many students believed, was as much the fault of the 
                        United States
                    , which meant the Truman administration, as of the 
                        Soviet Union
                    . Foreign policy in that administration was wrong because it was seeking confrontation.
                    Domestic policy too was wrong because the New Deal programs had been diverted by the bogus proposals
                    of the Fair Deal. Those proposals were nought but a subterfuge to give the impression that the
                    purposes of President Roosevelt were being carried on by his successor. In reality the money for
                    social reform in the 
                        United States
                     was diverted to armaments and other Cold War purposes.2
            
            It was an extraordinary accusation about Truman foreign policy, and by extension domestic policy, and
                    twenty years after this attempted revisionism it all seems unfortunate. Historians should not write
                    from their imaginations.
            But another reason the monographs of the 1970s were not going to stand over the years was that the
                    major (not in quantity, but in quality) holdings of the Truman Library did not open until the late
                    1970s and early 1980s. These were, first of all, the private papers of the president, 339 Hollinger
                    boxes five inches wide and holding file folders full of letters and memos and other such things.
                    This treasure trove opened beginning in 1977 and was almost entirely open by 1980. It was followed
                    by a second trove, the most 
                  
                     2 Gar Alperovitz, Cold War Essays (
                                New York
                            , 1970); William C. Berman, The Politics of Civil Rights in the
                                Truman Administration (
                        Columbus,
                                    Ohio
                     , 1970); Barton J.
                            Bernstein, ed., Politics and Policies of the Truman Administration (
                                Chicago
                            , 1970); Richard M. Freeland, The Truman Doctrine and the Origins
                                of McCarthyism: Foreign Policy, Domestic Politics, and International Security,
                            1946-1948 (
                                New York
                            , 1972); Lloyd C. Gardner, Architects of Illusion: Men and Ideas in
                                American Foreign Policy, 1941-1949 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1970); Thomas G. Paterson, Soviet-American Confrontation: Postwar
                                Reconstruction and the Origins of the Cold War (
                                Baltimore
                            , Md., 1973); Martin J. Sherwin, A World Destroyed: The Atomic Bomb
                                and the Grand Alliance (
                                New York
                            , 1975); Athan G. Theoharis, Seeds of Repression: Harry S. Truman
                                and the Origins of McCarthyism (
                                Chicago
                            , 1971); Athan G. Theoharis, The Yalta Myths: An Issue in U.S.
                                Politics, 1945-1955 (
                                Columbia
                            , Mo., 1970); Richard J. Walton, Henry Wallace, Harry Truman, and
                                The Cold War (
                                New York
                            , 1976); Daniel Yergin, Shattered Peace: The Origins of the Cold
                                War and the National Security State (
                                Boston
                            , 1977).
               
                     remarkable set of private papers in the history of the
                    presidency: 1,268 letters from Truman to Bess Wallace and, after their marriage in 1919, Bess W.
                    Truman. All but one were in the president's hand. They were written between 1910 and 1959.
                    The letters were found in the Truman house a few blocks from the library and were opened in 1983, a
                    year after Bess's death. They were everywhere in the house–in boxes downstairs,
                    in bureau drawers, under sofa cushions. Those in the attic were saved amid confusions that would
                    make any historian shudder. The attic was open to animals and birds, and a raccoon got in and
                    discovered jars of jellies or other preserves, clawed open the lids, and enjoyed himself, after
                    which he feasted on the attic's pigeons. All over the attic were clutches of pigeon
                    feathers and jam. But the letters were all saved and brought down to the library, except for some
                    dozens, maybe hundreds, that Bess burned. Her daughter once described this in a book (Souvenir: Margaret Truman's Own Story, 1956). According to Margaret Truman, her
                    father came into the living room where Bess was burning letters in the fireplace. "But
                    think of history!" said the president. "I have," was
                    the response.
            Another treasure of the library that became available at the same time as the private papers and Dear
                    Bess letters was the diary of Truman's assistant press secretary, Eben A. Ayers. The diary
                    set down in enormous detail–and in half a million words –what went on in the
                    executive offices each day and especially what happened in the president's office, which
                    was a few feet from Ayers's office.
            Beginning in the 1980s, because of the wonderful new material, a new group of books has appeared. At
                    long last, a full generation after Truman's presidency and two decades and more since
                    Truman's death in 1972, the Truman literature is beginning to take the measure of the man
                    and his times. Robert J. Donovan in 1977 and 1982 published remarkable books on each of the Truman
                    terms (Conflict and Crisis and Tumultuous Years). Donald R.
                    McCoy published a volume on the presidency (The Presidency of Harry S. Truman,
                    1984). Richard Lawrence Miller took Truman to the White House in Truman: The Rise to
                        Power (1986), based on careful work in the library. William E. Pemberton, in Harry S. Truman: Fair Dealer and Cold Warrior (1989), revived the contentions of the
                    1970s, using the new material. Monte M. Poen published the Truman "mad letters," a
                    marvelous collection of missives in which the president customarily began on a cool note but then
                    gradually lost his temper, forcing him or his secretary, Rose A. Conway, to file the result (Strictly Personal and Confidential, 1982). Poen published another admirable
                    collection on a variety of subjects (Letters Home, 1984). Andrew J. Dunar
                    reexamined the Truman scandals in a measured, fair way (The Truman Scandals and the
                        Politics of
                    
                    Morality, 1984). Ken Hechler, former White House assistant, brought out his
                    authoritative Working with Truman (1982).
            Three biographies recently have been published. Casting about in 1982 for a subject that would hold
                    his attention and that of readers, David McCullough considered Pablo Picasso. When that subject wore
                    out more quickly than he thought possible, he turned to Truman (1992). In time for
                    the presidential campaign of 1992, the book's stories about its subject, its drawing of
                    Truman as a son of the Middle Border, and its appreciation of the American past at a time when
                    nostalgia was in short supply made it irresistible to book buyers. The present writer published Harry S. Truman: A Life in 1994, a volume quite different from
                    McCullough's in that it is not a life and times and thereby is half as long. Reviewers have
                    said it is more critical of its subject. Alonzo L. Hamby in 1995 brought out another life and times
                        {Man of the People). It does not celebrate the Middle Border, even though
                    Hamby is a native of Humansville, 
                        Missouri
                     (population 1,084), one of those wonderful farm villages with piquant names, such as
                    Peculiar, 
                        Missouri
                    . Hamby's book offers a psychological view of its subject. He presents him as
                    an overachiever who worked harder than other individuals because he was unsure of himself.
            In the midst of the biographies' appearance occurred the confusion in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., over the proposed exhibit at the Smithsonian Institution of the Enola Gay, the B-29 bomber that delivered the atomic bomb to Hiroshima. The
                    museum's curators had prepared a text to accompany the exhibit that seemed to service
                    historians and to veterans to be too evenhanded in assessing responsibility for the war and to
                    criticize use of the bomb. Revisions were made, and they too did not please the dissenting service
                    historians and veterans. Historians generally entered the fray, with perhaps a dozen books published
                    in 1995, some justifying use of the bomb, others criticizing. The criticism implicitly and sometimes
                    explicitly looked in the direction of the reputation of the president of that time, Truman. On more
                    than one occasion Truman himself had justified what he had done. In 1959 he told an enormous
                    twelve-hundred-student "class" at 
                        Columbia
                     University that the bomb was just like an ordinary artillery weapon, that the Japanese
                    had deserved it, that he had lost no sleep over the decision, and that if necessary he would make
                    the same decision.
            Readers of the present article will have their opinions of the decision to use nuclear weapons on two
                    Japanese cities, weapons that killed between 120,000 and 150,000 men, women, and children, soldiers
                    and civilians alike. My own opinion is that the wartime president did not so much make a decision
                    about using the bomb as confront a nearly impossible situation. He went along with using the new
                    weapon for historical (that is, emotional) reasons– the Japanese bestialities in 
                        China
                     that killed hundreds of thousands  of people, the
                    attack on Pearl Harbor, the Bataan death march, and the inhuman treatment of prisoners throughout
                    the war. In addition the president faced an attack upon the Japanese home islands that could have
                    cost the casualties he spoke and wrote about after the war, one quarter to one half million American
                    deaths. Moreover, as we now know, all Allied prisoners in Japanese hands in 1945 were scheduled for
                    death the moment any 
                        United States
                     soldier set foot on the home islands. The president faced, as he put it, "an
                    Okinawa from one end of 
                        Japan
                     to the other."
            But has the evaluation of Truman and his place in history now come to rest? Here it is necessary to
                    distinguish between the views of the American public, which bought McCullough's book, and
                    historians, who may not have bought it. The American public long ago went over to Truman's
                    side, a process that began in the early 1970s with the abject end of the Nixon administration. By
                    that time the busloads of tourists were filling the semi-circular road outside the Truman Library,
                    and inside the citizens were fighting for souvenirs. Time magazine described the
                    scene as "Trumania."
            The three recent biographers agree with the public view. In McCullough's evaluation and my
                    own and Hamby's, no more sorting of Truman's qualities needs to be done. In spite
                    of my criticisms of Truman's public career, and Hamby's sensitivity to
                    Truman's personal insecurities, all of us place him high among holders of his office. His
                    foreign policy by and large has turned out to have been right. Everything coming from the archives
                    of the former 
                        Soviet Union
                     has backed Truman up, including the recent discovery that Stalin was responsible for
                    starting the Korean War.3 As for Truman's domestic proposals, the
                    country in the years after his presidency accepted all of them, save only his proposal for health
                    care–about which he may have been uncannily prescient. (For what was the country coming
                    to, Truman once asked himself, when it was possible for a working man to pay as much as
                    $25 a day for a hospital bed?)
            From this positive judgment the historians generally have held back. They have not yet come around to
                    Truman, certainly not to Trumania. For them the new Truman books, the biographies and the others
                    using the new material, have not made much of a difference. Perhaps they think that David McCullough
                    is only another Claude Bowers or Marquis James. For myself and Hamby, they may believe that we have
                    spent too much time in the Truman Library and have been overwhelmed by Truman's presence
                    there. 
                  
                     3 Kathryn Weathersby, Soviet Aims in 
                                    Korea
                                 and the Origins of the Korean War, 1945-1950: New Evidence from Russian
                                Archives (Cold War International History Project, Woodrow Wilson International Center
                                for Scholars; Working Paper VIII, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1993); Kathryn Weathersby, "The Soviet Role in the Early Phase
                            of the Korean War: New Documentary Evidence," Journal of American-East
                                Asian Relations, II (Winter, 1993), 425-58.
               
                     After all, his grave is in the library courtyard, outside the
                    windows of the search room. Taken as a group the historians are not enthusiastic about Harry S.
                    Truman and his works.4 This is the case even though the polls of historians and
                    other experts in the ranking of presidents have shown Truman eighth or ninth in what (because of the
                    frequency of recent four-year presidents) is becoming a large group. In evaluating Truman the
                    historians by and large find themselves uncertain. They need more time before they can come around
                    to the right point of view.
            
               
                  4 Barton J. Bernstein, "Seizing the Contested Terrain of Early
                        Nuclear History," Diplomatic History, XVII (Winter, 1993), 35-72;
                        Barton J. Bernstein, "The Struggle over the Korean Armistice," in Bruce
                        Cumings, ed., Child of Conflict: The Korean-American Relationship, 1943-1953
                        (Seattle, Wash., 1983), 261-307; Bruce Cumings, The Origins of the Korean War
                        (2 vols., 
                            Princeton
                        , 1981-1990); Rosemary Foot, The Wrong War: American Policy and the
                            Dimensions of the Korean Conflict (
                            Ithaca
                        , N.Y., 1985); Rosemary Foot, A Substitute for Victory: The Politics of
                            Peacemaking at the Korean Armistice Talks (
                            Ithaca
                        , N.Y., 1990); Fraser J. Harbutt, The Iron Curtain: Churchill, America,
                            and the Origins of the Cold War (
                            New York
                        , 1986); Frank Kofsky, Harry S. Truman and the War Scare of 1948: A
                            Successful Campaign to Deceive the Nation (
                            New York
                        , 1993); Melvyn P. Leffler, A Preponderance of Power: National
                            Security, the Truman Administration, and the Cold War (
                            Stanford
                        , Calif., 1991); Robert L. Messer, The End of Alliance: James F.
                            Byrnes, Roosevelt, Truman, and the Origins of the Cold War (
                            Chapel Hill
                        , 1982); Thomas G. Paterson, On Every Front: The Making and Unmaking of
                            the Cold War (revised ed., 
                            New York
                        , 1992); Leon V. Sigal, Fighting to the Finish: The Politics of War
                            Termination in the 
                                United States
                             and 
                                Japan
                            , 1945 (
                            Ithaca
                        , N.Y., 1988).
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Encyclopedia of 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Edited by David J. Bodenhamer and Robert G. Barrows, with the assistance of
                    David G. Van-derstel. A Project of the Polis Research Center of Indiana University-Purdue
                    University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1994. Pp. xv, 1600. Illustrations, references, tables, maps,
                    figures, subject guide, index. $39.95.)
            This encyclopedia originated "in the mid-1980s when a new cityscape renewed pride in the
                    Hoosier capital and suggested an interest in its history." Encouraged by the success of a
                    similar project in 
                        Cleveland
                    , five historians, under the auspices of the Center for American Studies at Indiana
                    University-Purdue University at 
                        Indianapolis
                     (IUPUI), "effectively launched the Encyclopedia
                    project" (p. ix). An editorial staff via the POLIS project of IUPUI guided the project from
                    1989 onward, aided by a local advisory committee and supported by many grants. The project had 485
                    authors, "more than 400 of whom work outside traditional academic settings" (p.
                    ix). (Unfortunately, the reader will find no list of contributors. Most are Hoosiers. A graduate
                    student contributed the largest number of entries.)
            The reader's guide introduces scope, types of entries, and indexing and cross-referencing
                    schemes. The work comprises topics "central to the development of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Marion County
                    " (p. xiv). It encompasses also the eight counties in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Metropolitan Area but offers limited information on areas outside 
                        Marion County
                    . Although comprehensive, the encyclopedia stresses the twentieth century, since the
                    last lengthy history of the city, by Jacob Piatt Dunn, appeared in 1910. Persons were included if
                    they had "a significant impact on the development of Greater 
                        Indianapolis
                    " (p. xiv), regardless of their longevity in the city or their ultimate fame or
                    notoriety. Biographical entries were limited to persons who died before March, 1994, and
                    institutional sketches generally confined to "entities that are or were located in 
                        Indianapolis
                     or 
                        Marion County
                    " (p. xiv).
            The encyclopedia contains three types of narratives: general entries, listed alphabetically;
                    mini-essays; and fourteen interpretive essays on such broad topics as African Americans, government,
                    and religion. The appendix contains a timeline and a statistical abstract. Bibliographic citations
                    follow many entries. Three methods of cross-referencing and indexing are employed. Entries often
                    include the names of separate, related items. The indices are by subject and name. The introductory
                    essays make up 224 pages; general entries and mini-essays 1,247 pages; and the timeline, statistical
                    abstract, and indices 76.
            
            Scholars will undoubtedly compare The Encyclopedia of 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                with the format and the quality of other reference works, especially Kenneth
                    Jackson's The Encyclopedia of 
                            New York City
                        
                (1995). The introductory essays are for the most part well written. An
                    overview of 
                        Indianapolis
                     history, however, is conspicuously absent (compare, for example, The
                        Encyclopedia of 
                            Kentucky
                        ). The editors offer only a brief introduction that describes 
                        Indianapolis
                     as a representative place that "embodies (perhaps exaggerates) the
                    region's middle-class values" (p. 2).
            Unigov, a somewhat consolidated city and county government created by the legislature and set up in
                    1970, perhaps makes the scope inherently unclear. What is 
                        Indianapolis
                    ? The title suggests a narrower focus than the editors' prefatory statement,
                    and most of the entries deal with and reflect the pre-1970 boundaries of the city. Little about 
                        Marion County
                     appears. The statistical abstract is also revealing. Some tables handle 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Marion County
                    . Others treat only 
                        Marion County
                     (for example, racial composition from 1900 to 1990 curiously is not provided for 
                        Indianapolis
                    ). In some cases (for example, the table of largest employers in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ), the user is not certain of the geographic confines of the list. One table lists the
                    budgets of combined city-county government for 1976 to 1991, but not earlier city budgets. Maps
                    showing 
                        Indianapolis
                    's territorial growth and its evolving reach would have been useful.
            The user may find the paucity of comparison a drawback. The statistical abstract offers a limited
                    amount of national and state data. One exception demonstrates the value of a broader view. That 
                        Indianapolis
                     accounted for twice the percentage of the state's population in 1990 than in
                    1890 (Table 3, p. 1504) provides one argument for an essay on the relationship between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and its state. Have Hoosiers' perceptions of 
                        Indianapolis
                     changed, especially in the past twenty years? Similarly, some of the interpretive
                    essays do not place the city in state and national context.
            Ease of use, moreover, could be improved. General entries for those knowing 
                        Indianapolis
                    , especially proper names and major themes and topics, seem ample and well done. There
                    are entries that one would expect–for instance, on baseball, bridges, buses, cemeteries,
                    parks, retailing, taxes, and zoning. Neophytes seeking information on presumably common topics like
                    canals, electricity, epidemics, gas, housing, newspapers, sewers, taxis, and telephones, however,
                    must find it elsewhere, and cross-referencing is unavailable. Canals must be found under Central
                    Canal, for example, and epidemics under medicine and public health. Some subjects are overlooked.
                    There are citations for the wholesale district, but not wholesaling, and for the automobile
                    industry, but not automobiles. The reader will find no entries on, among other topics, abortion,
                    apartments, birth control, dining, or hotels.
            
            Some factual errors exist. The photograph on page 389, for instance, shows a first communion class in
                    Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , not 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Francis Silas Chatard (p. 407) was not the first 
                        United States
                    -born Roman Catholic bishop in Indiana. (Joseph Dwenger, bishop of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     after 1872, was.) The earliest Catholic school (p. 389) was established in 1847, but
                    the account on page 1,236 incorrectly states the date as 1859. Chatard's episcopacy began
                    in 1878 (p. 389), not 1898 (p. 1,237). Similarly, St. John's and St. Mary's are
                    incorrectly identified as German and Irish Catholic parishes, respectively (p. 1,236).
            
               The Encyclopedia of 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               , nonetheless, is impressive and useful. Although it is not the history that
                    replaces Dunn's, it will doubtless benefit those who are interested in most aspects of the
                    state capital's development and, one hopes, those who want to write its history.
            DARREL E. BIGHAM is professor of history and director of
                    the Historic Southern Indiana Project at the University of Southern Indiana, 
                        Evansville
                    . He is completing a book on villages, towns, and cities of the lower Ohio
                        River. He contributed several articles, without remuneration, to the Encyclopedia of 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
         
         
            
               Fighting for Jobs: Case Studies of Labor-Community Coalitions Confronting Plant
                        Closings. By Bruce Nissen. (
                        Albany
                    : State University of 
                        New York
                     Press, 1995. Pp. xviii, 215. Figures, tables, notes, selected bibliography. Clothbound,
                    $49.50; paperbound, $16.95.)
            For two decades, plant closings have bedeviled manufacturing workers in the Midwest.
                    America's industrial heartland has become a "rustbelt." Economic ideology
                    has depicted these closings as the inevitable consequence of impersonal market forces. Local
                    responses have wavered between passive acceptance and desperate attempts to accommodate businesses
                    by lowering taxes, providing infrastructure, lowering wages and benefits, and relaxing work rules.
                    Meanwhile, family-supporting jobs have disappeared, working-class living standards have fallen, and
                    communities have declined.
            
               Fighting for Jobs offers a much-needed antidote to these economic maladies. In this
                    little book, Bruce Nissen, a Labor Studies professor at Indiana University Northwest, provides
                    systematic study of five cases of plant or department closings in the 
                        Hammond
                    -Gary-East 
                        Chicago
                     area. His analysis challenges economic orthodoxy by demonstrating that plant closings
                    have not been caused solely–or primarily–by market forces. By exploring the
                    dynamics of worker and community responses to closings, Nissen demonstrates that passivity and
                    accommodation are not the only possible options. Resistance is also an option, one
                    with a greater
                     likelihood of protecting jobs and living standards. But, Nissen
                    shows, such resistance can succeed only when labor-community coalitions are solidified around
                    strategies which shape both the public definition of the problem and the posture taken by local
                    political officials.
            Nissen's five case studies, drawn from the middle to late 1980s, show that outside corporate
                    ownership, corporate accounting and internal management structures, and downright mismanagement play
                    as significant a role in setting the stage for plant closings as do imports, high costs, aging
                    equipment, and declining technologies. Broad economic factors are significant, to be sure, but they
                    do not tell the whole story, nor do they impose insurmountable limits on worker and community
                    efforts to save jobs.
            
               Fighting for Jobs traces the efforts of the Calumet Project for Industrial Jobs to
                    prevent plant closings, facilitate buy-outs and reopenings, lay a foundation for worker ownership,
                    or require corporate responsibility for severance packages, retraining, and the other costs of
                    economic dislocation. Formed in 1984, the Calumet Project has brought union, religious, and
                    community activists together with academics and researchers in an effort to influence the direction
                    and pattern of economic change in northwestern Indiana.
            In four of the five struggles detailed in Fighting for Jobs, workers and their
                    allies had little impact on the direction of economic change. Plants closed and jobs were lost.
                    Corporations were able to walk away from their responsibilities and leave the burden of their
                    policies behind.
            But Fighting for Jobs is a hopeful book. The cumulative impact of these struggles
                    and the persistence manifested by the Calumet Project for Industrial Jobs have influenced the public
                    definition of the problem and the stance assumed by local political leaders. This played an
                    important role in the victory gained in the fifth and final struggle analyzed, at LaSalle Steel in 
                        Hammond
                    . There, union leaders successfully involved their rank-and-file membership and built an
                    energized coalition with community activists and local residents. Together, they pressured local
                    political structures to, in turn, put pressure on a corporation that was threatening to close a
                    major department.
            In his analysis of the case studies, Nissen identifies factors and strategies that can be utilized in
                        future struggles. In this way, Fighting for Jobs itself can
                    be a source of hope, for it will become a valuable tool for union and community activists.
            PETER RACHLEFF is professor of history at Macalester
                    College in 
                  St. Paul, Minnesota
               . His most recent book is Hard-Pressed in the
                        Heartland: The Hormel Strike and the Future of the Labor Movement (1993).
         
         
         
            
               Cities of Light and Heat: Domesticating Gas and Electricity in Urban America. By
                    Mark H. Rose. (University Park: 
                        Pennsylvania
                     State University Press, 1995. Pp. xviii, 229. Notes, illustrations, tables,
                    bibliographic essay, index. $34.50.)
            
               Cities of Light and Heat is a segmented study of the development and spread of gas
                    and electric consumption in two cities and the nation as a whole. The first two chapters chronicle
                    the creation of gas and electric utilities in 
                        Kansas City
                     and 
                        Denver
                     and the pressures that prompted the spread of utility infrastructure outside of the
                    city centers. Personalities, political realities, competition, and new technologies all influenced
                    the chronology and geography of gas and electric distribution in these cities in the nineteenth and
                    early twentieth centuries. Peculiar in this process was the decision to abandon the cost of delivery
                    to the individual customer as the sole determinant of price. Instead of charging more distant
                    customers at a higher rate, utility officials and politicians eventually worked together to spread
                    the costs of building their systems evenly over all customers.
            To overcome customer resistance and increase consumption, promoters turned to sales innovations and
                    the public schools. Manufactured gas proved costly compared to coal. This prevented even a highly
                    trained and motivated sales force from converting enough city residents to gas heat. More sales came
                    when natural gas arrived, first in 
                        Kansas City
                     in 1907, then much later in 
                        Denver
                     in 1928. 
                        Denver
                    's proximity to cheap coal kept natural gas at bay twenty years longer than in 
                        Kansas City
                    , but the fact that natural gas contained more than twice the heat potential of
                    manufactured gas helped make it a success. A gas furnace, went the sales pitch, allowed a man to
                    quit worrying about his wife at home being a stoker and janitor. It kept the house warm with a
                    thermostat and eliminated ashes. A simultaneous campaign in the schools to promote gas and electric
                    appliances built a base of future consumer demand for the convenience and cleanliness of the new
                    technologies.
            Of the two figures sketched in the fifth chapter, J. C. Nichols's creation of the Country
                    Club District of 
                        Kansas City
                     merits more interest than Roy Munroe. While Munroe spent his life as sales manager for 
                        Denver
                     Gas promoting gas and appliance sales, Nichols financed and built homes and shopping
                    districts for 
                        Kansas City
                     residents. By building his new shopping center near suburban residential developments,
                    he anticipated future trends in many ways, in spite of predictions of failure. Rose uses these
                    examples to document the increased consumption of utility services and the spread of wires and
                    pipelines wherever suburbanization went.
            In the final two chapters the author looks at the spread of the culture of gas and electric usage in
                    the 
                        United States
                     from 1920 to  1985, but he does this statistically
                    and anecdotally. He leaves the reader wishing for a more detailed treatment of the creation and
                    early years of the 
                        Denver
                     and 
                        Kansas City
                     companies, or a fuller description of the spread of appliances and heated living spaces
                    touched upon in the other chapters.
            Rose's topics, considerations of motive, and his bibliographic essay will make this a useful
                    work for those interested in urban history, the diffusion of technology, and the American culture of
                    comfort.
            BRUCE SMITH teaches in the Department of History and
                    Political Science at Saint Francis College, Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , Indiana. He recently completed a manuscript on the impact of World War II on a small
                    industrial town in Indiana. He and his wife Natasha raise wool sheep on their 
                        Noble County
                     farm for the fleeces she uses to make handspun yarn.
         
         
            
               Sustainable Agriculture in the American Midwest: Lessons from the Past, Prospects for
                        the Future. Edited by Gregory Mclsaac and William R. Edwards. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1994. Pp. x, 291. References, tables, maps, illustrations, figures, index.
                    $32.95.)
            This collection of twelve essays, lucidly introduced and eloquently concluded by Gregory Mclsaac,
                    asks whether and how mid-western agriculture can be sustained. The contributors are mostly
                    scientists who bring knowledge of agricultural engineering, soils, climates, and geography to the
                    discussion. A few of them specialize in social studies, notably agricultural economics and
                    anthropology, but none are historians. Their discussion principally concerns the future, not
                    history, but they acknowledge that "studying the past … may help us to divine
                    the future" (p. 1). Accordingly, the essays examine agriculture's history as well
                    as its prospects and deserve a broad audience of readers who care about the Midwest's part
                    of that history and need clear, readable guidance to its technical and environmental aspects.
            The book's attention to the past begins with Mclsaac's introductory essay, which
                    includes a brief history of the terms "sustainable" and
                    "sustainability" as they have been applied to agriculture. It would be good to
                    sustain agriculture, nearly everyone agrees, but what is needed to give agriculture sustainability
                    varies with the interests and academic disciplines of those who have studied the subject. In his
                    concluding essay, Mclsaac fervently argues that the division of academics into separate disciplinary
                    tribes has blocked really inclusive studies of what sustaining agriculture requires. Sustainability
                    gets studied in fragments even on land grant campuses which should, and perhaps increasingly will,
                    foster holistic studies of agriculture and its prospects. Mclsaac's general argument  nicely illustrated by the intellectual variety of this
                    book's more specific essays, should interest everyone who studies or worries about American
                    higher education.
            Valuable historical sections of this book include geographer John Thompson's history of the
                    lower Illinois River valley's drainage between the 1890s and 1930.
                    Bottomland produced extraordinary corn yields during that period, and drainage brought more land
                    into use at enormous cost to investors, to the valley's environment, and to the people who
                    lost fishing and hunting opportunities. That is an 
                        Illinois
                     story, as are most of this book's essays. The essay also makes a brief
                    reference to Hoosiers, specifically the "wealthy manufacturers and nationally prominent
                    Republican party leaders from 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    " (p. 90) whose hunting and fishing club made a profitable sale of wetland to a 
                        Chicago
                     investor who had it drained. Most of the essay is solid business, political, and
                    environmental history that illustrates the movement that produced so much drainage throughout this
                    country in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Now, Thompson hopes, the high cost of
                    keeping the bottoms drained may allow some of them to be wetlands again.
            Other valuable history lessons in this book include William R. Edwards's brief discussion of
                    the relationship between midwestern farming and upland game species; Richard Weinzierl's
                    account of human struggles with insects, especially his explanation of integrated pest management,
                    which he considers "in its fullest sense … an essential component of sustainable
                    agriculture" (p. 183); Dennis Michael 
                        Warren
                    's analysis of the farming cultures of Native Americans, Americans of Finnish
                    ancestry, 
                        Iowa
                    's Amish, and the Practical Farmers of 
                        Iowa
                    , all of whom have lessons to teach about making agriculture sustainable; and Sonya
                    Salamon's comparison of the farming cultures of German and "Yankee"
                    communities in south-central 
                        Illinois
                    , where she finds the Germans "predisposed toward sustainable farming
                    systems" (p. 73).
            All of the book's essays end with substantial bibliographies, and all of them avoid the sort
                    of technical jargon that might repel or defeat readers with limited knowledge of the
                    authors' disciplines. Part of the publisher's series on "The Environment
                    and the Human Condition," the book aims to make specialists' knowledge available
                    to an audience of people who care about farming, the environment, and the Midwest. Though the
                    authors are not historians, they have made a valuable contribution to the knowledge available to
                    students of the region's agricultural history.
            DONALD B. MARTI teaches 
                        United States
                     history at Indiana University 
                        South Bend
                     and is currently studying rural sociologist Kenyon Butterfield (1868-1935).
         
         
         
            
               Ordinary Life, Festival Days: Aesthetics in the 
                            Midwestern County
                         Fair. By Leslie Prosterman. (
                        Washington
                    , D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1995. Pp. xi, 220. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    Paperbound, $24.95.)
            Leslie Prosterman is one of the first authors in a long time to study agricultural fairs at the
                    county level. The only comprehensive study to date of any state's county fairs is a volume
                    from the WPA's American Guide Series entitled Fairs and Fair Makers in 
                            Kentucky
                        
                (1942). Most fair research has focused instead on the influence of state and
                    world fairs. In Indiana, for example, the history of the Indiana State Fair and fairground is
                    chronicled in Paul Miner's Indiana's Best! An Illustrated Celebration
                        of the Indiana State Fairgrounds, 1852-1992 (1992), while a history of county fairs remains
                    to be completed. As Prosterman points out, it is difficult to believe this pervasive community
                    institution has persisted for so long in the 
                        United States
                     but captured so little academic attention.
            Prosterman's book is based upon interviews with fair participants and event judges at fairs
                    in central and northern 
                        Illinois
                     and southern 
                        Wisconsin
                     in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Although her research data is now somewhat dated,
                    her interest in exploring how community values and individuals interact in the formation of
                    aesthetic taste is not. Understanding the human capacity for individualism or conformity within a
                    range of community values is invariably the object of much research.
            The book gives a brief history of fairs and the ways they have been administered, and it discusses
                    premium books as they differentiate classes of entries and the process of judging. Prosterman shows
                    how judging, the evaluative process, provides a means of community and individual communication in
                    reciprocal interaction. She uses the county fair to show how communities reinforce a collective
                    "ideal." According to Prosterman, in the whole structure of county fairs harmony
                    is insisted upon. "
                        The county
                     fair represents a world they would like to exist and highlights rules of conduct, sets
                    of judgment, from which they know they deviate but which reinforce a sense of togetherness in a
                    fractured and strife-ridden world" (p. 12). To celebrate farming as a way of life, fair
                    organizers perpetuate a life idealized, away from pressure to change.
            Prosterman's point about reciprocity is a good one, but if there is reciprocity between
                    individuals and the community, it also exists between the community and the strife-ridden world.
                    Fairs do change and have done so in the presence of agricultural stress. Although our society still
                    retains a nostalgic ebullience for the yeoman and agriculture, farm closings and a decline in the
                    number of family farms is the somber contemporary reality. These factors have strongly affected
                    fairs, and with the book's short study period it is difficult to show how much.
            
            Prosterman's work also raises a question about the potential regionality of county fairs. To
                    contrast her findings to fairs in the Midwest, for example, midwestern fairs are focused almost
                    entirely on youth, not adults; they also are almost always funded by public monies, not by private
                    stock corporations. These examples showing difference only stress that there is room for more
                    research on county fairs in the 
                        United States
                    . Prosterman's contribution has, as good research should, raised questions for
                    others to consider.
            CATHY AMBLER is a Ph.D. candidate at the University of 
                        Kansas
                    , Lawrence, in American Studies. She is currently finishing her dissertation, "
                        Kansas County
                     Fair-scapes, 1854–1994," which documents the history of 
                        Kansas County
                     fairs and fairgrounds.
         
         
            
               Barns of the Midwest. Edited by Allen G. Noble and Hubert G. H. Wilhelm.
                            (
                  Athens, Ohio
               : 
                        Ohio
                     University Press, 1995. Pp. xi, 295. Figures, illustrations, references, index.
                    Clothbound, $50.00; paperbound, $25.00.)
            While many books on barns have focused on their inherent beauty, Barns of the
                    Midwest chronicles all facets of barn construction, function, heritage, and geographic
                    distribution. Editors Allen G. Noble and Hubert G. H. Wilhelm, both well known in the agricultural
                    history field, have successfully brought together other specialists to compile this scholarly book.
                    Their well-developed insights into and interpretations of barn types, form, function, and history
                    are assembled in numerous chapters.
            
               Barns of the Midwest addresses the tremendous diversity of midwestern barns by
                    examining barns from the early ethnic structures to the newer and larger barns designed for specific
                    purposes. Included are informative chapters on early log-crib, threshing, dairying and tobacco
                    barns. Other chapters take the reader into the intricacies of the modern midwestern barn. Subject
                    matter as diverse as barn extensions and barn decor and preservation is also adequately portrayed.
                    Especially gratifying are the two fine chapters by Lowell Soike, whose grasp of agricultural
                    history, combined with his flair for writing, provide the reader with a sense of living during the
                    time when these structures were being constructed.
            Of special interest to Indiana round barn enthusiasts (and to this reviewer) is the excellent chapter
                    on nonorthogonal barns by Keith Sculle and H. Wayne Price. Sculle and Price add to
                    Indiana's round barn history by providing an interesting discussion, combined with
                    never-before-published photos of Indiana round barn builders, 
                        Benton
                     Steele and Horace Duncan. But it is not just Indiana's round barns that Sculle
                    and Price portray. They successfully describe Indiana's contribution to the round barn
                    construction that occurred in the Midwest between 1880 and 1920.
            
            Hoosier readers will also find the chapter on early log-crib barns found in southern Indiana of
                    particular interest. Here, 
                        Warren
                     Roberts presents a fine discussion of single- and double-pen barns, as well as a
                    history of German-American log barns, both of which are commonly found in secluded southern reaches
                    of the state.
            With seventeen contributing authors, each chapter is written uniquely and could stand alone as an
                    article. The editors encouraged this diversity of style, rather than "attempting to enforce
                    rigidity of form." This is the book's strength, but it is also a weakness. The
                    book's strength is derived from the expertise and knowledge readily presented that an
                    author or researcher working alone could not begin to match. With such diversity, a wealth of
                    information is introduced, and with each chapter a fresh style is conveyed to the reader.
            Distractions include an overdone chapter on the definition of the Midwest and some inconsistencies in
                    the manner in which each author presents his conclusions. However, where Barns of the
                        Midwest might be improved most is in the area of illustrations. A consistency in style
                    would make the book flow more smoothly and eliminate some rough edges. While some chapters present
                    fine drawings, others have crude illustrations of barn types that might be better presented in a
                    more refined illustration or in a photograph. Similarly, some of the maps, particularly those in the
                    first chapter, lack purpose.
            On the whole, however, this is a good book. It provides a meaningful contribution to a diverse
                    subject. While the book will be of most interest to scholars, it deserves to be read by all serious
                    enthusiasts of agricultural history.
            JOHN T. HANOU of 
                  Annapolis, Maryland
               , is a
                    1973 graduate of Indiana University and the author of A Round Indiana: Round Barns in
                        the Hoosier State (1993). He has written several articles on the subject of round barns,
                    and his photographs of the midwestern landscape have won many awards.
         
         
            
               Born in the Country: A History of Rural America. By David B. Danbom. (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins University Press, 1995. Pp. xii, 306. Illustrations, notes, suggestions
                    for further reading, index. Clothbound, $42.50; paperbound, $14.95.)
            Old habits are hard to break. Danbom has tried to "write a synthetic history of rural
                    America that integrates the new social history with the old–and new–political
                    and economic history" (p. xi), but he has not managed to venture far beyond a conventional
                    treatment of agricultural organizations, institutions, policies, and bureaucracies. He is most
                    comfortable with sweeping generalizations about vast areas and with nebulous concepts (such as  social maturation, population pressure, commodification, and
                    class). He is least comfortable with real live people, the true stuff of social history, although he
                    does drop a name or two from time to time.
            Furthermore, he falls into the old trap of assuming that "rural" is synonymous with
                    "farm." One might argue that indeed they have been synonymous throughout much of
                    American history, but many miners, foresters, fishermen, and women have also been rural people, as
                    are many contemporary resort operators, and today most of the nation's
                    "rural" people are actually refugees from urban areas who have taken up residence
                    in the countryside. In 1990 only 6.3 percent of the rural people of the 
                        United States
                     lived on farms.
            The book begins with a chapter on medieval Europe and the Woodland Culture of Native Americans and
                    discusses the traditional epochs of American agricultural history in subsequent chapters. It does
                    so, however, almost always in terms of agricultural institutions, programs, and policies. One looks
                    in vain for any full treatment of agricultural practices, farming systems, specific crops and types
                    of livestock, and the people who have raised them.
            The book scants the American agricultural heartland in the Midwest and devotes much of its attention
                    to the Great Plains (which at times seem to include the entire West) and the South. It tilts
                    strongly toward the Great Plains, where the stalwart farmers seem to have managed to cope with
                    severe environmental constraints, but the South fares very badly.
            The author has bought the Yankee myth that farmers in the North could do nothing wrong but farmers in
                    the South could do nothing right. Sections on the South range from descriptions of cannibalism in
                    colonial 
                        Virginia
                     (p. 25) and small planters in the Chesapeake living "in filth, infested with
                    lice, putting dirty bodies into dirty clothes" (p. 46) to a creative interpretation of the
                    New Deal cotton program (pp. 210-14), which "worked its wicked ways on tenants"
                    (p. 226).
            The book probably will not sell well south of the Mason-Dixon line.
            JOHN FRASER HART, professor of
                    geography at the University of 
                        Minnesota
                     in 
                        Minneapolis
                     since 1967, has published extensively on rural areas in the 
                        United States
                    . His work includes The Land That Feeds Us (1991) and, most recently,
                    a chapter in Emery N. Castle, ed., The Changing American Countryside
                (1995).
         
         
            
               Industrializing America: The Nineteenth Century. By Walter Licht. (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins University Press, 1995. Pp. xviii, 219. Bibliographical essay, index.
                    Clothbound, $38.95; paperbound, $13.95.)
            Walter Licht, professor of history at the University of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , organizes his interpretation of nineteenth-century economic  transformation around the "marketization" of social
                    relations. The course of change–technological, structural, social, and
                    cultural–was profoundly uneven in character, highly diverse in geography, and
                    unpredictable in impact. It is Americans' changing definitions of appropriate market
                    relations that identifies, for Licht, the unifying descriptor and key engine of change in the
                    nineteenth century.
            Licht begins his story with an overview of the political economy of the late eighteenth century,
                    surveying first the forms of economic activity on the eastern seaboard and then revisiting the
                    debate over manufactures. The narrative moves quickly to a discussion of the paths of industrial
                    growth. It covers the different rural factory systems in the textile industry of New 
                        England
                    , the industrialization of crafts in mercantile cities, and the southern, slavery-based
                    version of industrial development. Licht assesses the range of responses to early industrialization
                    in the trade union movement and less formal responses such as transiency and religious revivalism.
                    Prevailing notions of commonwealth gave way to private enterprise, but the lack of a strong
                    laissez-faire critique of governmental actions suggests that "Americans in the early
                    industrial period remained as republican as liberal, as commonweal-oriented as personally
                    driven" (p. 88). Licht then reviews the various arguments about the impact of the Civil War
                    on industrial growth. He concludes that the war's impact on the course of change pales in
                    comparison to the post-Civil War construction of "a definitively new state corporate
                    capitalist order" (p. 98).
            The single best chapter, "An Industrial Heartland," is a brilliant review of the
                    state of industrial America in 1880. The narrative flies high over the landscape, surveying the
                    broad contours of industrial expansion in geographic tiers and concentric circles, and then swoops
                    low to examine the dynamics of postbellum southern growth and the role of midwestern cities like 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     (but not, it must be said, 
                  Indianapolis, Terre Haute
               , or 
                        Muncie
                    ). The final two chapters interpret, in turn, the rise of the corporation as a business
                    form and the social turmoil that exploded at the end of the century as laborers and farmers battled
                    big business. What Licht finds of interest is that divergent motives led to convergent goals:
                    increased personal security and a more administered economy and society.
            This synthetic overview of the nineteenth century is well organized, scholarly, readable, and
                    reliable; in a word, judicious. Perhaps too judicious. For one thing, despite his expressed interest
                    in the rise of the market and the expansion of the cash nexus into all forms of public and private
                    life, Licht does not employ the insights of 
                        Warren
                     Susman, T. J. Jackson Lears, Gunther Barth, or Alan Trachtenberg on the role of the
                    market in individual or social life. For another, this is an almost uniformly supply-side analysis;
                    Licht  never examines in earnest the rise of consumerism or the
                    implications of increasing materialism on home life, class structure, or cultural style. Finally,
                    the writing style and the analysis are so balanced, so tempered, so academic, that
                    the resulting history veers toward the predictable and lifeless. Undergraduates reading this book
                    will get a detailed story and will be introduced to some of the analytical disagreements among
                    professional historians, but they will not be challenged or inspired to become their own historians.
            WILLIAM S. PRETZER, School Programs Team leader at Henry
                    Ford Museum & 
                        Greenfield
                     Village, 
                  Dearborn, Michigan
               , is the author of, most recently, "From
                    Artisan to Alderman: The Career of William W. Moore, 1803-1886," in Robert Asher, Paul
                    Gilje, and Howard Rock, eds., American Artisans: Crafting Social Identity,
                        1750-1850(1995).
            
         
         
            
               Out of the Wilderness: The Life of Abraham Lincoln. By William Hanchett. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1994. Pp. xi, 151. Illustrations, maps, notes, bibliography, index. Cloth-bound,
                    $21.50; paperbound, $7.95.)
            Unfortunately, William Hanchett's short biography of Abraham Lincoln does not measure up to
                        The Lincoln Murder Conspiracies (1983), his justly acclaimed study of the
                    Lincoln assassination. That monograph, also published by the University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, met a demonstrable need in Lincoln scholarship by patiently and meticulously
                    demolishing the various conspiracy myths that had developed around the first presidential
                    assassination in American history. This attempt to provide a "new introductory
                    biography" (p. x) is uninspired and poorly organized.
            Hanchett opens the story with President-elect Lincoln's departure from his adopted hometown
                    of 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , in 1861, a potentially powerful dramatic moment that he
                    describes with little effect. The narrative then touches upon most of the well-known incidents of
                    Lincoln's early life with almost no elucidation. Hanchett divides the Civil War period into
                    overlapping thematic segments, focusing upon the war, emancipation, Lincoln's family, and
                    political opposition to Lincoln in the North. The biographer then discusses the aftermath of the
                    assassination and assesses the nature of Lincoln's success as a war leader.
            Hanchett's narrative judgement is curious at best. This may be the first published biography
                    of Lincoln that fails to discuss, or even mention, the 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address. Hanchett whips through the important period 1854-1860 in a mere six pages. He
                    disposes with the Lincoln-Douglas debates in two sentences and with Lincoln's 1860
                    presidential nomination in three paragraphs. His chronology of the Civil War is disjointed and
                    difficult to follow, with platitudes often substituting for analysis. "Of course [Lincoln]
                    had  no absolute control over events;" writes Hanchett,
                    "no one ever has had, and no one ever will" (p. 129).
            In Hanchett's defense, many others, equally accomplished as scholars, have been frustrated
                    by the demands of Lincoln biography. Honest Abe is a difficult subject, at once familiar and
                    distant. His biographers face a veritable mountain of secondary sources yet must overcome a relative
                    dearth of primary material. There is no doubt, however, that Hanchett has researched this biography
                    well, committing no obvious errors of fact. This itself is an accomplishment.
            Lincoln's exalted role in the national memory creates unique pressures on anyone who aspires
                    to understand and explain his behavior. To his credit, Hanchett has offered already at least one
                    significant contribution to the Lincoln field.
            Perhaps Hanchett's desire for brevity is simply too burdensome for a subject as important as
                    Lincoln. The reader is repeatedly frustrated by a confusing absence of details and explanations. If
                    such an introductory biography is to succeed, however, it must tell the story with more verve and
                    coherence. Out of the Wilderness has also been produced as a video documentary by
                    Hanchett and Gary L. Beebe. It is possible that what fails to impress in print is more evocative on
                    film. Still, the problems of the printed biography are severe enough to make the book sadly
                    irrelevant.
            MATTHEW PINSKER received his D. Phil, at 
                        Oxford
                     University. He has taught at 
                        Gettysburg
                     College, 
                  Gettysburg, Pennsylvania
               , and currently teaches at Haverford
                    College, Haverford, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .
         
         
            
               The Abolitionists and the South, 1831-1861. By Stanley Harrold. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1995. Pp. x, 245. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $29.95.)
            In The Abolitionists and the South, Stanley Harrold examines the breadth of
                    abolitionist activity in the Upper South during the antebellum period. The purpose of this study is
                    to correct longstanding assumptions that the abolitionist movement was circumscribed within northern
                    geographic boundaries. Harrold successfully demonstrates that antislavery activism flourished in the
                    border states, however much that tradition was mediated by northern capitalist and religious
                    motivations.
            He begins by examining the images of white and black activists that existed in the minds of both
                    northerners and southerners and then moves on to discussions of well-known, mostly male antislavery
                    activists. These activists participated in the movement in a number of ways: creating a cadre of
                    abolitionist missionaries, establishing antislavery colonies in the Upper South, and attempting to
                    forge political alliances in the South with northern-based Republican antislavery parties.
            
            A number of themes, however, deserve further exploration. Except for a brief description of the
                    activities of Delia Webster and references to the letters of Lydia Maria Child, one gets the
                    distinct impression that women did not join in the discussion of southern abolitionism or
                    participate in abolitionist activities in this region. The activities of Webster and Child present
                    the possibility that more women were involved in some aspect of southern abolition than the book
                    suggests. This raises questions about their modes of participation compared and contrasted to those
                    of their male colleagues.
            The predominance of masculine images of the southern abolitionist, regardless of the extent of female
                    participation, is an intriguing subtext in Harrold's study and could have been explored
                    further. "The Image of a Southern White Emancipator" and "The Image of a
                    Southern Black Liberator," seemingly generic chapter titles, are for the most part based
                    upon the views and activities of individual male activists. The activities of six white abolitionist
                    men illustrate the various ways that individuals contributed to the construction of a masculinized
                    image of the southern white emancipationist as both a symbol of progress for the movement in the
                    South as well as "southern intransigence" (p. 37). In the eyes of many northern
                    abolitionists, these activists represented bravery, heroism, strength, and fortitude, traits that
                    were interpreted as decidedly Christian as well as masculine. Northern abolitionist views of slaves
                    ranged from an internalization of proslavery arguments of the inherent submissiveness and
                    contentment among slaves and hence a belief ultimately in the strength of northern
                    activism to confidence in the initiative of slaves themselves to secure their own freedom. The
                    extreme, romanticized image of black slave men, which proslavery writers promoted and some northern
                    abolitionists incorporated into their own views, stood opposite that of white emancipators. Slave
                    men supposedly exhibited "feminine" traits of emotionalism, submissiveness, and
                    obedience. Harrold leaves unresolved, however, the problematic relationship between this
                    romanticized view and an equally dominant perception that black men were hypersexual, bestial, and
                    morally inferior and, therefore, posed a threat to middle-class white womanhood. To what extent did
                    longstanding fears of black masculinity also shape the image of the Southern Black Liberator?
            Despite these gaps, Harrold reopens a field of abolitionist scholarship that future historians will
                    undoubtedly pursue in the continuing effort to create a deeper understanding of the antislav-ery
                    movement in the 
                        United States
                    .
            SHIRLEY J. YEE is associate professor and acting director
                    of the Women Studies program at the University of 
                        Washington
                    . She is currently working on a study that explores the racialization of gender between
                    the 1850s and the 1920s through a comparative study of African-American, Chinese, and Irish women in
                    the 
                        United States
                    .
         
         
         
            
               The Union, the Confederacy, and the Atlantic Rim. Edited by Robert E. May. (West 
                        Lafayette
                    , Ind.: Purdue University Press, 1995. Pp. xi, 169. Notes, illustrations, map, index.
                    Cloth-bound, $24.95; paperbound, $12.95.)
            This volume, which derives from the 1994 Sears lectures given at Purdue University, contains essays
                    by four prominent historians, together with audience questions and responses. Its theme is
                    "the meaning of the Civil War to the international community and the war's place
                    within the overall story of nineteenth-century world history" (p. 20). In his introduction,
                    Robert E. May establishes the subject's parameters and significance, boldly insisting that
                    Americans "will never truly comprehend their Civil War until they claim its diplomatic
                    front" (p. 23). How successfully do his contributors meet this challenge?
            The opening essay by Howard Jones, "History and Mythology: The Crisis over British
                    Intervention in the Civil War," distills the argument of his recent monograph, Union in Peril (1992), that the threat of intervention was intensified and not diminished
                    by the "pivotal" events of 1862. Jones correctly highlights the British concern
                    over slave insurrection, which Lincoln's partial and belated emancipation only served to
                    heighten, and he concludes that the Palmerston government's decision to stay out of the war
                    "proved crucial" to the collapse of the Confederacy. The main problem here is the
                    semantic uncertainty generated by the word "intervention" and the extent to which
                    one can legitimately speculate, as an historian, on the likely consequences of any foreign action.
            R. J. M. Blackett's essay, "Pressure from Without: African Americans, British
                    Public Opinion, and Civil War Diplomacy," on the other hand, eschews the counterfactual and
                    offers instead a fascinating glimpse into the war's impact upon British grass roots
                    opinion. In particular, he records the contribution of nearly forty, mostly forgotten, black
                    Americans who were actively engaged in enlisting British support for the Union, and in a detailed
                    study of one cotton textile area he convincingly demonstrates that earlier analyses of working-class
                    opinion failed to record the divided sentiments generated by the American war. Blackett deftly
                    sidesteps the question of the wider impact of these local arguments by maintaining that the
                    documentary record shows "an almost universally accepted conviction that government policy
                    was susceptible to public pressure and that for this reason individuals were obligated to become
                    involved in the effort to marshal public opinion in support of the causes in which they
                    believed" (p. 76).
            Equally wide-ranging in its implications although radically different in approach is Thomas
                    Schoonover's contribution, "Napoleon is Coming! Maximilian is Coming? The
                    International History of the Civil War in the Caribbean." Schoonover draws on  a variety of theoretical models to compare Union and Confederate
                    involvement in this vital contiguous region. It is southerners, perhaps inevitably, who suffer by
                    the comparison, as Schoonover perceptively charts Confederates' short-termism and
                    "flawed understanding" of their society's connections to the world
                    economic system.
            In the final essay, "‘The Whole Family of Man’: Lincoln and the Last
                    Best Hope Abroad," James M. McPherson offers astute readings of the impact of
                    Lincoln's "central idea" on foreign liberalism. However,
                    McPherson's view that "most members of that minority of Englishmen who owned
                    enough property to vote… probably would have welcomed the dissolution of the American
                    republic" (p. 136) is entirely unverifiable, notwithstanding the manifest resentment felt
                    by many in the middle and upper classes at American conduct during this period. Still, the essay
                    provides an elegant finale to a thought-provoking collection whose international perspective is much
                    to be welcomed.
            MARTIN CRAWFORD teaches American history at Keele
                    University in 
                        England
                    . His most recent book is William Howard Russell's Civil War:
                        Private Diary and Letters, 1861-1862 (1992).
         
         
            
               The Third Day at 
                            Gettysburg
                         & Beyond. Edited by Gary W. Gallagher. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1994. Pp. x, 217. Illustrations, notes, maps, bibliographic essay, index.
                    $24.95.)
            In 1992 and 1993, Gary W. Gallagher and assorted historians published collections of essays on the
                    first and second days at the Battle of 
                        Gettysburg
                    . High in quality and traditional in their nature, these essays tackled the major
                    command decisions in the most celebrated and costly engagement in the Civil War. In The
                        Third Day at 
                            Gettysburg
                         & Beyond, Gallagher and comrades complete their trilogy by expanding
                    beyond the confines of that approach to place military operations into a wider context of the war
                    and postwar perceptions of that conflict. The result is the most unusual and intriguing volume of
                    the set.
            The book opens with its best work, a study by Gallagher of the impact of Confederate defeat at 
                        Gettysburg
                     on the Army of Northern 
                        Virginia
                     and people on the home front. After poring over hundreds of letters and diaries written
                    by Confederate soldiers and civilians, Gallagher challenges the argument that 
                        Gettysburg
                     marked the beginning of the end for the Confederacy. In an essay spiced with wonderful
                    quotations, he concludes that while the manpower losses were irreplaceable, the repulse at 
                        Gettysburg
                     had limited impact on Confederate morale.
            
            William Piston delves into the Lee-Longstreet relationship in his analysis of the third day. Piston
                    explains the difficulties, resulting from the paucity of sources, of reconstructing the planning and
                    execution of the assault. After building up and tearing down various theses, he blames both Lee and
                    Longstreet for faulty design and execution. Unfortunately for Longstreet, in the postwar years
                    Lee's idolaters fudged his errors in the campaign and affixed the onus of defeat on
                    Longstreet.
            Carol Reardon's essay concentrates on that controversial attack and its flawed depiction
                    during and after the war. Initially, 
                        Richmond
                     newspapers provided coverage, and their focus on 
                        Virginia
                    's role eventually immortalized Pickett's charge. They glorified the
                    conduct of 
                        Virginia
                    's troops and blamed the repulse on soldiers from other states, especially 
                        North Carolina
                    . In the postwar years, the Southern Historical Society–an organization
                    dominated by Virginians–continued to propagate that version to the detriment of others
                    and, so Reardon argues, the truth. Yet its influence was so powerful that the tainted interpretation
                    survives today.
            Two brigade commanders, Lewis Armistead and Richard Garnett, are the topic of Robert K.
                    Krick's splendid essay. He follows these individuals from childhood, through West Point and
                    the regular army, to Cemetery Ridge, where they both fell. Impressively researched, colorfully
                    written, and cleverly argued, this is a fascinating portrait of two men in gray whose lives always
                    seemed to touch one another.
            In a very different type of essay, Robert Bee uses the writings of an enlisted man to understand
                    cultural perceptions in a mid-nineteenth century 
                        Connecticut
                     town. He taps into more general studies to help describe the soldier's actions
                    and explain his concerns, especially his perceptions of courage and how rumors of cowardice affected
                    him. The study ratifies Reid 
                        Mitchell
                    's arguments about the impact of community on Civil War soldiers.
            The concluding essay may be the most provocative of the batch, an assessment of George G.
                    Meade's generalship during the pursuit. Drawing skillfully from Meade's
                    contemporaries, Wilson Greene undercuts certain arguments, endorses others, proposes his own, and
                    ultimately provides a judicious if somewhat critical appraisal of Meade's
                    "lost" opportunity to crush Lee's wounded army before it returned to 
                        Virginia
                    .
            For anyone interested in the Civil War, The Third Day at 
                            Gettysburg
                         & Beyond is a worthwhile book.
            JOSEPH T. GLATTHAAR is a professor of history at the
                    University of 
                        Houston
                    . His most recent book is Partners in Command: Relationships Between
                        Leaders in the Civil War (1994).
         
         
         
            
               Pragmatism and the Political Economy of Cultural Revolution, 1850-1940. By James
                    Livingston. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1994. Pp. xxiii, 392. Tables, illustrations, notes, index. $39.95.)
            As its title suggests, Pragmatism and the Political Economy of Cultural Revolution
                    is a sweeping, ambitious work of intellectual history, one that will surprise, challenge (and often
                    frustrate) those who attempt to wade through its elaborate strands of argument. Author James
                    Livingston, an economic historian whose expertise spans several disciplines, makes his contribution
                    to the laudable rediscovery and rehabilitation of the American pragmatist tradition, a project
                    initiated in recent years by Richard Rorty, Cornel West, Robert Westbrook, Alan Ryan and many
                    others. Like his fellow neopragmatists, Livingston presents a strong case for the relevance of the
                    century-old "innovations" of William James and John Dewey, attractive in this
                    "postmodern" age for their provisional, experimental, radically democratic
                    implications.
            Livingston rejects orthodox Left laments about the oppressiveness of the new cultural and economic
                    order brought about by the incorporation and industrialization of the 
                        United States
                     as it moved into the twentieth century. He directs special criticism toward the school
                    of antimodernist alienation identified with Lewis Mumford, a perspective here dismissed as a
                    romantic dead end, a temptation to hand-wringing that is a chief cause of the fin de
                        siecle malaise of progressive forces throughout the developed world. Livingston's
                    alternative demands a search for the liberating possibilities that are an inherent by-product of
                    corporate capitalism's destruction of rigidly class-based hierarchies. To the extent that
                    people are free to "reconstruct" their notions of "selfhood,"
                    and to establish new "solidarities" beyond the reach of the marketplace,
                    Livingston insists (with echoes of Marx) that the current regime contains the seeds of its own
                    demise. He concludes that a revitalized ethos of pragmatism is the means to transcending the
                    nihilistic individualism of consumer society, and to realizing the potential for a postcapitalist,
                    "socialist" order that, even today, in the market's latest moment of
                    triumph, remains viable.
            
               Pragmatism and the Political Economy of Cultural Revolution is an achievement of
                    considerable sophistication and virtuosity. It is in some ways a pathbreaking cultural study, filled
                    with boldly original arguments and provocative reinterpretations of familiar material. Unfortunately
                    the barriers to understanding those arguments are daunting, often overwhelming, and the audience for
                    this book will be a decidedly narrow one. Livingston's gymnastics are tough to follow, page
                    after page, and his aggressively polemical, "dialectical" style and weakness for
                    overgeneralization become tiresome over the long haul. His writing also manages to combine the  tendencies toward jargon-ridden, obtuse abstraction that
                    afflict contemporary philosophy and literary criticism with the "deadly poetry" of
                    political economy. Still, those few initiates who are able and willing to make the commitment will
                    find wrestling with this author an unexpectedly rewarding experience.
            GREGORY D. SUMNER is assistant professor of American
                    history at the University of 
                        Detroit
                    , Mercy. He is the author of Dwight Macdonald and the politics Circle (1996).
         
         
            
               Cultural Crusaders: Women Librarians in the American West, 1900-1917. By Joanne
                    E. Passet. (Albuquerque: University of 
                        New Mexico
                     Press, 1994. Pp. xix, 208. Illustrations, tables, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $40.00.)
            Joanne E. Passet's study, Cultural Crusaders: Women Librarians in the West,
                        1900-1917, takes readers far beyond the stereotypical notion of female worker in a
                    masculine milieu. Using very broad strokes to paint an image of the western librarian during the
                    first two decades of the twentieth century, the author leaves the reader with the impression of an
                    atypical individual who defied gender stereotypes as she survived and promoted her wares. Passet
                    labels the early, professionally trained librarians cultural crusaders–individuals who
                    exuded a "library spirit," the precursor of the public service attitude. More
                    specifically, the author identifies 311 female librarians who worked in eleven western states. Her
                    study includes academic, school, public, and special libraries. Passet admits that her population is
                    underrepresented because subjects were omitted if data was incomplete. What she fails to acknowledge
                    is the omission of a population that may not have appeared in the sources she examined: journal
                    literature, library school catalogs, alumni registers, and biographical directories.
            The book is well-arranged. After a brief introduction, Passet supplies background information about
                    the history of library education and work and the development of the "library
                    spirit." She also provides an ample introduction to the role club women played, especially
                    in the West, in the establishment of libraries. Chapters two and three describe the geographical,
                    cultural, and social backgrounds of the librarians and give some of their initial impressions of
                    western communities and landscapes. The reader understands their feelings of isolation. The crux of
                    the study, chapters four through six, focuses on the influence of academic and public institutions
                    on the development of library buildings and services. Passet details how the western academic and
                    public librarian supported and provided library services through networking: traveling and giving
                    inspirational talks, working with local boards, and establishing and revitalizing state library
                    associations. The establishment of libraries was often the work of crusading souls and
                    philanthropists.  (Passet reports that between 1899 and 1919,
                    one-third of the 280 communities in eleven western states receiving an Andrew Carnegie grant did not
                    have a library prior to the gift.)
            Passet elaborates on and places in historical context a concept that she notes and attributes to
                    Wayne A. Wiegand in her introduction. She indicates that 1917 marks a watershed in American library
                    history because it ends a period of rapid expansion. She concludes with a strategically placed
                    chapter that contains biographical sketches of four western librarians who "exemplify the
                    spirit of the cultural crusaders."
            Passet's study reminds readers that many things come full circle. For example, she notes how
                    traveling libraries during the time period created a desire for permanent collections. Public
                    librarians today often take book collections to other places, e.g., to schools and
                    shut-ins. During the Progressive Era, library services promoted a way to aid settlement and
                    literacy. More recently, it is common for home buyers to seek areas that boast healthy school and
                    library facilities.
            The well-illustrated book contains photographic images of librarians and varied library settings. As
                    a professionally trained librarian, Passet has done a good job locating primary source materials,
                    including personal papers and institutional archives (the alumni files at several universities and
                    the Carnegie Corporation library correspondence are rich examples of the latter). Her extensive
                    endnotes, bibliography, and index could serve as a reference prototype for those who may undertake
                    similar research.
            WILMA L. GIBBS is program archivist at the Indiana
                    Historical Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Indiana Alma Maters: Student Life at Indiana Colleges, 1820-1860. By Laura M.
                    Bachelder. Edited by Timothy Crumrin and Elizabeth Brand Monroe. ([Fishers, Ind.]: Conner 
                        Prairie
                     Center for the Study of Indiana Life, 1995. Pp. ii, 60. Illustrations, appendix, notes,
                    bibliography. Paperbound, $8.00, [plus $.40 sales tax for Indiana residents]
                    plus $.75 shipping. Order from Center for Study of Indiana Life, Conner 
                        Prairie
                    , 13400 Allisonville Road, Fishers, IN 46038.) Readers interested in the history of
                    Indiana in the nineteenth century and the history of higher education will find this small
                    publication valuable. The author briefly covers the founding of several colleges and universities
                    and then devotes the remainder of the study to details of campus life, classes, extracurricular
                    activities, codes of conduct, and graduation ceremonies. Illustrations, such as an 1859 Indiana
                    University class schedule, are pertinent and interesting. Those wishing to do further research on
                    nineteenth-century life at these colleges will appreciate the extensive notes and bibliography. Dawn E. Bakken, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               The First Fifty Years, 1912-1962: An Oral History. By Mar-jorie Lagemann Snodgrass. ([
                        Indianapolis
                    , Ind.: Newsfoto Yearbooks, 1994]. Pp. 103. Illustrations. $30.00, plus
                    $5.00 postage and tax. Order from ATS Oral History, Box 88433, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , IN 46208.) Anyone who intends to write a history of their school should look first at
                    the fine example provided by Marjorie Lagemann Snodgrass in her oral history of Arsenal Technical
                    High School of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . "Tech," as it has always been called by its students and the
                    community, has been a significant force in public education in 
                        Indianapolis
                     for much of the twentieth century, and this book does justice to its place in history.
                    Snodgrass introduces each period with a brief historical sketch, but most of the book is devoted to
                    extensive oral histories taken from former students. Their stories yield details of student life,
                    curriculum, extracurricular activities, student-teacher relations, and the lifelong effects a school
                    can have on its students. This book has obvious appeal for Tech graduates but is also recommended to
                    those interested in the history of 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the twentieth century and the history of secondary education. Dawn E.
                        Bakken, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               Brethren Dress: A Testimony to Faith. By Esther Fern Rupel. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : Brethren Encyclopedia, Inc., 1994. Pp. xviii, 183. Figures, maps, illustrations,
                    bibliography, appendices, table. $45.00, plus $3.00 shipping. Order from
                    Brethren Encyclopedia, 313 Fairview Avenue, Ambler, PA 19002.) Esther Fern Rupel, a  lifelong member of the Church of the Brethren, has written this study
                    of the "origin, significance and demise" of the distinctive dress worn by church
                    members. She begins with a brief history of the Brethren and then provides an extensive history,
                    accompanied by many illustrations, of their clothing. Rupel concludes with comments on the
                    complicated relationships of clothing to church conduct and government and on the changes which
                    modern culture brought to this traditional, conservative Christian group. Readers interested in the
                    history of costume and in the material culture of American religious groups will profit from this
                    meticulously researched volume. Dawn E. Bakken, Indiana University, Bloom-ington.
            
               When My Name Was Willie: A Collection of Stories. By William D. Hiatt. Edited by
                    Gene Hiatt. (n.p.: [H. E. Hiatt], 1995. Pp. [125]. Illustrations, appendix. Paperbound,
                    $5.00, plus $2.00 postage. Order from Gene Hiatt, 914 Greenbriar Lane, 
                        Richardson
                    , 
                        TX
                     75080.) This collection of vignettes describes rural life in central Indiana in the
                    early twentieth century. Included are such varied topics as the arrival of the first automobile and
                    its use by a country doctor, the operation of a village general store, farming, black-smithing,
                    incubating eggs, farm tools, early telephones, peddlers and hucksters, and wash day. The stories
                    center around Leisure and Elwood in 
                        Madison County
                    , the boyhood homes of William D. Hiatt. As an adult, Hiatt taught school in and served
                    as mayor of 
                        Tipton
                     and then ended his public career as manager of the West 
                        Lafayette
                     Water Company. Lorna Lutes Sylvester, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
            
               Voices from the Hills: Oral History and Folk Tales from 
                            Martin County
                        , Indiana, and Surrounding Areas. (Edited by Bill Whor-rall. Shoals, Ind.: Bill
                    Whorrall, 1995. Pp. 275. Illustrations, index. Paperbound, $24.00, plus $4.00
                    shipping. Order from Bill Whorrall, R.R. 3, Box 24, Shoals, IN 47581.) Bill Whorrall believes that
                    "rural areas … are special places" (p. 1). In this book, Whorrall
                    illustrates that point by recording the memories and stories of more than one hundred elderly
                    residents of 
                        Martin County
                    , Indiana. Whorrall, who has published three other books on the county, proves himself
                    to be an effective oral historian by eliciting lengthy and detailed accounts from many of his
                    informants. Work is the most prominent topic of discussion. The book contains descriptions of
                    farming, trapping, mining, and factory work. Other topics include one-room schools, country
                    churches, children's games, Halloween pranks, the Ku Klux Klan, and
                    "moonshine." The many ghost stores related by Whorrall's informants are
                    particularly entertaining. The book is attractively illustrated with woodcuts and  wood engravings by David Alford. A greater effort to organize the
                    material would have made the book more useful to students, but readers interested in rural life and
                    Indiana in the early twentieth century will find Voices from the Hills an engaging
                    work. Andrew Denson, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               .
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
      
   
