
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 32, Issue 4, pages 319-448. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:32+issue:4+year:1936&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Water-Powered Mills of Flat Rock River
            DENZIL DOGGETT
            
            As the tide of immigration flowed into Indiana, at the end of the eighteenth century and early part
                    of the nineteenth, through the newly founded border towns along the 
                        Ohio
                     and lower 
                        Wabash
                     Rivers, we find that the settlers followed the main streams in their northward and
                    westward journeyings, paying special attention to those capable of furnishing water power to operate
                    grist-mills and sawmills in the new frontier communities.1
            
            Flat Rock River, lying in southeastern Indiana, was probably typical of the streams which furnished
                    power for grinding the flour and meal of the pioneers and for sawing lumber for their homes.
                    Accordingly, a history of the individual water-powered grist and sash sawmills of this river and its
                    tributaries will probably be typical of the similar tributary streams which go to make up the White
                    and Wabash river systems. The source of Flat Rock is near the 
                        Randolph-Henry county
                     line, about eight miles northeast of 
                        New Castle
                     and lies at an elevation of approximately 1128 feet above sea level. It pursues a
                    general southwesterly course for approximately eighty-eight miles (by river) to the vicinity of 
                        Columbus
                     in 
                        Bartholomew
                     County, where it unites with Driftwood Creek to form the East Fork of White
                        River. Its mouth lies at an elevation of 643 feet, making the total fall in its
                    length 
                  
                     1 Acknowledgments: To John Nipp, Sr., who collected much and wrote the
                            historical sketches of mills in 
                                Rush County
                             accredited to him, I wish to extend thanks for assistance in preserving these
                            historical items. The following persons, I thank for their many informative letters,
                            sketches, photographs and maps: 
                                Marion
                             Owen, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Whitinger, Mrs. Charles Evans, Mrs. Julia Wyatt,
                            Charles Zoller, Mrs. Phoebe Roberts, Maurice Dauglas, Mrs. Hershel Blades, Albert Sanders,
                            Mrs. A.G. Newsom, Mrs. Glee Raymond, Thomas Bone, Jess Wiley, Edker Avery, Earl McNeely,
                            John Wyman, Guy C. Grant, Wade Innis, Mrs. Lucy Stanisfer, George Haymond, Mrs. Rose
                            Shelhorn, Joseph Shelhorn, Kenneth Jewett, H. W. Bennett, Robert Tate and Frederick May. I
                            also wish to express my appreciation for the assistance rendered by the members of the staff
                            of the Indiana State Library, who furnishd many items from books, clippings, correspondence,
                            and other sources in the various departments.
               
                    
                    
                  FLAT ROCK RIVER and TRIBUTARIES showing Location of WATER POWERED GRIST AND SASH SAW
                        MILLS
               
                    
                    
                  MILLS LOCATED ON MAP
                  
                  The Glidden Sawmill
                  The William Carr Mills and Factory
                  The Ammons or Nipp Mills
                  The Ertel-Nipp Mills
                  The Kirkpatrick Mill
                  The 
                                Vermont
                             and Watson Mills
                  The Smelser or "Tim" White Mill
                  The Nipp Sawmill
                  The Roland Mill
                  The Hinchman Sawmill
                  The Laughlin and Carmichael Mills
                  The Hungerford Mills
                  The Scull-Harcourt Mills
                  The Moscow Mills
                  The Owen Mills
                  The Milroy Mills
                  The Jewett Grist-Mill
                  Picayune Mill
                  The Short Sawmill
                  The Old Paul Mill
                  John Paul Woolen Mill and Sawmill
                  The Bailey Mill
                  The Isaac Newton Mills
                  The Haymond Mill
                  The Copeland Mill
                  The Cave Mill
                  The Girton Grist-Mill
                  The Rains-Crane Mills
                  The Patterson-Whitesides Mill
               
                     approximately 485 feet. It has a total drainage area of 532
                    square miles. Its tributaries are noted on the accompanying map of its drainage basin, showing the
                    location of all mills mentioned in this account.
            The name of the river, Flat Rock, is a literal translation of the names given by the Indians,
                    "Pack-op-ka" or "Puchkachsin." The names of two of the branches
                    of Flat Rock—Ben Davis Creek and Shankitank—were influenced by the Indian
                    occupation. The former is named for an Indian chief, Ben Davis, and the latter is a contraction of
                    the Indian name "Choak-hittuck" which means "Big Tree Creek."
            History records that early laws and grants by the bodies governing Indiana Territory encouraged the
                    establishment of water-powered grist-mills and sawmills. Rights of preemption were allowed men who
                    would make this venture, and special laws were enacted governing the tolls of the miller and the
                    methods of measuring grain and flour. He was also required to grind "well and sufficiently
                    and in turn."
            The census of 1810 indicates that Indiana Territory had several water-powered grist-mills and
                    sawmills. Esarey's History of Indiana, I, states that the census of that
                    year listed, "3 powder mills making 3600 pounds of powder, worth $1800; one
                    wheat mill, 32 grist mills and 3 horse mills, grinding 40,900 bushels of wheat and 14 sawmills
                    cutting 390,000 feet of lumber worth $3900."
            The census of 1840, which applied to Indiana with its present state boundaries, shows a remarkable
                    growth in the milling industry in 30 years, as 204 flouring mills, 846 gristmills, 1248 sash
                    sawmills and 54 oil mills were listed. In the three principal counties in the Flat Rock
                    watershed—Rush, 
                        Decatur
                     and 
                        Shelby
                    —we find that there was a total of one flouring mill, 58 grist-mills, 58 sash
                    sawmills and two oil mills. Of this total of 119 water-powered grist-mills and sawmills, probably
                    from 58 to 65 were located in the Flat Rock basin in 1840. This survey has shown that there was a
                    total of 50 mills of all classes, that is, 22 grist-mills, 22 sash sawmills, 2 woolen mills, and 4
                    wood-working mills on Flat Rock. Many of them were established between 1840 and 1860, while others,
                    poorly or improperly located, were either abandoned or destroyed by floods before and after these
                    dates.
            No definite data seems to be available stating just when the first grist-mill or sawmill was started
                    on Flat Rock.  Several were started about 1820, or a little
                    later, among them being the Moscow, Owen, Picayune, Jonathan Paul, Drake (or Girton) and Rains
                    mills.
            In this investigation, an effort was made to find the location of the former home territory or state
                    of the mill founders. In many cases, nothing could be determined, but in several it was definitely
                    learned that they came from the East or South. Among these were Joseph Owen from 
                        Georgia
                     and Jonathan Paul from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    .
            Due to the great effort needed to grind the family's meal and flour on the early
                    hand-operated querns carried into the wilderness by the pioneers, the grist-mill operator early
                    became one of the most important and respected men in his community. His mill became the center of
                    community life around which grew a small settlement of other artisans necessary to each community.
                    General stores were established and the postoffice was located near or at the mill. Most of these
                    mills were custom mills specializing in the grinding of small, singlebag grists carried to them on a
                    man's shoulders or across the withers of a horse. The trip to mill formed an important
                    social interlude in the routine work of the pioneer.
            Many of these early water mills formed the nucleus of a town which is still in existence. On Flat
                    Rock, the towns of 
                        Rushville
                    , Moscow, Milroy, Downeyville and Saint Paul were all originally built around a
                    water-powered grist-mill or sawmill.
            The miller and the mill-wright were important personages in each community. The latter worked over a
                    wider territory, building the mill, its wooden machinery, dam and water-wheel in their entirety. His
                    ability as a mechanic was unquestioned as he had many intricate wooden gears and other delicate
                    parts to plan and construct. An inspection of the typical wooden gearing in use in the mill at
                    Indiana's Spring Mill State Park will convince the skeptic. As far as is known, only one
                    handbook on mill construction was available—Oliver Evans, Young Mill-Wright
                        and Miller's Guide, first printed in 1795, with fifteen editions following at
                    intervals of two to eleven years, the last in 1860. This publication left many of the smaller
                    details of construction dependent upon the native mechanical ability of the mill-wright. Among
                    mill-wrights, either mentioned casually in the various county atlases, or as having been
                    mill-wrights who built certain mills, were John Nipp 
                    
                    
                    
                  MILLS SHOWN ON OPPOSITE PAGE
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     Key No.
                  
                  
                     (1)
                     Nipp's Mills, about 1909
                     3
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     Nipp's Mills, 1936
                     3
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     Smelser or "Tim White" Mill, 1936. Located a few hundred feet from
                                its original site. It is used as a storage shed
                     7
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     Carmichael Mills in 
                                    Rushville
                                , about 1895 (from an old colored post-card)
                     11
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     Ralph Nipp Mill, 
                                    Rushville
                                , 1936. Successor to Carmichael Mill on same site
                     11
                  
                  
                     (6)
                     Ruins of Owen Sash Sawmill about 1910. Metal parts used in restoration of sash sawmill
                                at Spring Mill State Park in 1932
                     15
                  
               
                     (the father of John Nipp, Sr., age 86, of 
                        Rushville
                    ), Stephen Cory, Andrew Stevens, William Carr (also a wheel-wright), John Nipp, Sr., and
                    Calvin Hungerford.
            In Beer's Atlas of 
                        Rush County
                     (1879), we find the following quoted paragraph: 
                        John Nipp2 built ten mills in 
                                Rush County
                            , two in 
                                Grant County
                            , and one in 
                                Decatur
                             County. He built a sawmill in 1851 for Adam Ammons, in 
                                Washington
                             township; in 1856 he built a grist-mill (Nipp's Mill). He helped to
                            build the second mill at Smelser's, the first being built by Stephen Cory. John
                            Nipp built a combination mill for Philip Ertel. This was a woolen mill, a grist-mill and a
                            sawmill on Flat Rock.
                    
            
            The miller built up a reputation for fair dealing and a cheerful disposition and thus influenced the
                    life of the community greatly. His advice was sought and he was usually one of the principal persons
                    in any community assemblage. His mill was often used for community gatherings and sometimes as a
                    place of worship.
            As each community's farming industries expanded, a surplus of grain was produced for
                    grinding into flour and meal. No local market was available so it became necessary to transport it
                    by water to 
                        New Orleans
                     to be sold to southern planters or for export. No doubt, many of the mills on Flat Rock
                    were forced or led by circumstances to join this movement. My great grandfather, Isaiah McCoy, used
                    to tell of driving stock overland to market at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and of the flat-boating of products at the time of the spring floods when boats could
                    clear the shoals and bars in small streams like Flat Rock.
            As time passed and roads were improved, custom gradually deserted many of the small inefficiently
                    designed and operated grist-mills and sash sawmills, and forced them to enter other manufacturing
                    fields. Several of the later historical accounts mention these efforts. One was transformed into a
                    wood-working plant for the manufacture of wooden wheatdrills. Another made spinning-wheels for use
                    in the pioneer homes. Still others made wheat-cradles, used in the harvesting of wheat. Many of
                    these cradles are still used by farmers in cutting wheat in "new ground" fields.
                    Grain cut in this manner is usually bound by hand, using a band made of wheat stalks twisted
                    together. Still other mills were transformed into wool-carding and spinning mills. Homespun clothes,
                    such 
                  
                     2 The John Nipp who still lives at 
                                Rushville
                            , is known as John Nipp, Sr., and signs his name that way, although his
                            father's name was also John Nipp. The last mentioned, or elder of the two, is the
                            one referred to in the passage from the Atlas of 
                                    Rush County
                                .
                  
               
                     as jeans and worsteds, were made from this yarn, usually in the
                    same mill. Coverlids and woolen blankets were also manufactured. Mr. John Nipp mentions that many
                    woolen mills of Indiana, operated by water power, were controlled by the Rothchilds of 
                        New York
                    , somewhat on the order of some of the manufacturing corporations now in existence.
            All the old type water-powered mills were of great interest to the boys of the community. Fishing was
                    usually better in the mill-race or mill-pond than in the streams. My father, John H. Doggett, told
                    how he and the other boys of Downeyville used to catch fish with their hands in the forebay of the
                    Picayune Mill when it was drained in order that the horizontal wooden water-wheel could be repaired.
            Many of the mills on Flat Rock never passed beyond the wooden machinery age. This type of gearing and
                    shafting is graphically shown in the reconstruction of the mill at Spring Mill State Park.
                    Naturally, it required quite a bit of work to keep it in condition and a lot of lye soap to keep it
                    thoroughly greased. The mills that were eliminated were those poorly located, either with respect to
                    power development or to relocated and newly constructed gravel roads. Others followed the evolution
                    from practically all wooden construction to that combining wood with cast-iron gudgeons, with some
                    steel shafting and wood or cast-iron belt pulleys in minor locations or in the setting of new
                    machines. Gradually steel shafting and wooden or cast-iron pulleys with all sizes and types of
                    belting superseded the older construction. This was especially true of the larger and more important
                    mills and those having the best water power sites.
            Improved machines for all milling operations, such as grain cleaning and the grinding and bolting of
                    flour and meal were introduced. The roller process of manufacturing flour began to supersede the
                    stone buhr process in the fifties or sixties and had practically supplanted it by 1890 or 1895.
            Likewise, the power used to drive the grist-mill machinery went through a process of evolution.
                    Probably the first type of water-wheel used was the undershot or slightly modified current-wheel,
                    operated by confining the water of the stream in a narrow channel and forcing it against paddles
                    under a wheel equipped with them. This type of wheel was only about thirty per cent efficient and
                    went out of common use about 1800. The breast or "pitch-back" had the water
                    introduced 
                    
                    
                    
                  MILLS SHOWN ON OPPOSITE PAGE
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     Key No.
                  
                  
                     (1)
                     Moscow Grist-Mill and Sawmill, about 1905. Owned and operated by Park Washburn at that
                                time
                     14
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     Moscow Water-Powered Mills, 1936. John M. Wyman, owner and operator
                     14
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     Owen Grist-Mill, about 1905. Gearing used in restoration of Harrier's
                                Grist-Mill at Spring Mill State Park in 1931
                     15
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     "Pitch-Back" Water Wheel, Owen Mill, about 1905. Gudgeons used in
                                restoration of overshot water wheel, Hamer's Mill, Spring Mill State Park
                     15
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     Picayune or Banta's Mill, about 1897
                     18
                  
                  
                     (6)
                     Old Paul Mill, Saint Paul, about 1800
                     20
                  
               
                     into narrow wooden buckets, the lengths varying according to
                    the amount of water available in the stream. The point of application of the water was usually about
                    three-quarters of the distance to the top, the weight rotating the wheel toward the forebay. Its
                    efficiency was much higher than that of the undershot wheel but probably did not exceed sixty or
                    seventy per cent. This type of water-wheel went almost entirely out of use about 1850. The overshot
                    water-wheel, built of wood and similar to that at Spring Mill State Park, has the water introduced
                    into the type of wooden buckets, as mentioned above, but beyond the wheel's upper center,
                    so that the velocity and weight of the water acts through the whole diameter of the wheel. It was
                    commonly used from the earlier days of the state until 1850, when they began to be gradually
                    replaced by the horizontal wooden water-wheel and then by the cast-iron turbine. The wooden overshot
                    wheels were adapted to heads of water from ten to forty feet and quantities ranging from two to
                    thirty cubic feet per second. All were finally replaced by turbines and none of the water-mills in
                    daily operation in Indiana now has a wooden or overshot wheel. A few of the mills were driven in
                    their later years by steel overshot wheels.
            The sash sawmills were driven by flutter-wheels, a type of impulse wheel driven by a jet of water
                    under as much head as possible. The saw carriage was dragged back by a "tub"
                    wheel, the forerunner of the turbine. Both of these types of water-wheels may be seen in operation
                    in the reconstructed sawmill at Spring Mill State Park.
            Very little detailed information has been available regarding the types of millstones used and their
                    sizes. Whenever any facts are available, they are carried in the subject-matter of the history of
                    the individual mill. In general, the types mentioned are French buhrs, English buhrs, Sand Creek
                    buhrs and Raccoon buhrs. The two first mentioned types were imported from 
                        France
                     and 
                        England
                    , respectively, but the other two were made locally, taking their names from the streams
                    on which the quarry was located which produced them. French buhrs were constructed from irregular
                    pieces of suitable grinding stone, used as ballast in ships sailing from 
                        France
                     to the 
                        United States
                    . They were bound by circular hoops of steel. On the other hand, English stones were
                    imported in their finished state, as they were made in one piece.  The English millstones were never used extensively in Indiana, as their importation from 
                        England
                     practically stopped about 1810—a little before the War of 1812. A few were
                    brought to the state from other states and some were imported several years after the Civil War, but
                    never in the quantity that prevailed in the eastern states from 1790 to 1810. Much might be said
                    about the types of dressings used on all these stones, but it is felt that this should be treated
                    separately after some further research. The following observations anent buhrs and related subjects
                    were made by John Nipp, Sr., in various conversations with him: 
                        Carr's Mill, located three-fourths of a mile above 
                                Rushville
                            , used a French buhr for grinding wheat and a native stone buhr for corn.
                        The White Mill once ground 4 bushels of corn in an hour, on a single buhr, with a 22-inch
                            head of water using a Giant Turbine manufactured by the John Obenchain Co. of 
                                Logansport
                            . Normally, this turbine operated two sets of buhrs with an 8-foot head of
                            water. In 1876, I was operating this Tim White Mill on the shares and made $2500
                            in a year for my half of the profits. I was furnished with a house, cow, garden, and a horse
                            and buggy on Sunday.
                    
            
            These water-powered mills served the public well from the time of the earliest settlements in Indiana
                    to 1890 or 1900. At that time, the stringent requirements of the government in regard to the quality
                    of flour, caused many of the small mills to quit this class of grinding. Then it was consolidated
                    with the other grinding done in the larger mills having enough capital to handle such machinery as
                    was necessary to meet the requirements. These small water-powered mills struggled along grinding
                    whole-wheat flour and corn meal for local trade. Combinations of damaging floods, obsolete mill
                    machinery, and the improvement of the small electric or gas-powered grinders divorced even this
                    small amount of custom from the water-powered grist-millers who had neither funds nor adequate
                    credit to keep abreast of the latest in machinery and keep their mill dams and other appurtenances
                    in repair. In the Flat Rock basin, only three water-powered mills are now in intermittent operation:
                    Nipp's Mills, 
                        Rushville
                     Mills and the Moscow Mill. These are left out of the total list of mills which have
                    separate historical sketches in the following pages.
            In the necessary research among publications and books referring to county history, many allusions to
                    mills were incorporated in the following sketches. Naturally, some notations 
                    
                    
                    
                  MILLS SHOWS ON OPPOSITE PAGE
                  
                     
                     
                     Key No.
                  
                  
                     (1)
                     Overshot Water-Wheel, Old Paul Mill, about 1908
                     20
                  
                  
                     (2)
                     Ruins of Mill-dam, John Paul Woolen and Sash Sawmill, about 1908
                     21
                  
                  
                     (3)
                     Copeland, Charles or Holland Mill, 1935
                     25
                  
                  
                     (4)
                     Mill-dam of the Copeland, Charles or Holland Mill as it appeared in 1935
                     25
                  
                  
                     (5)
                     Mill-dam of Cave Mill in 1935
                     26
                  
                  
                     (6)
                     Cave Mill as it appeared, about 1918
                     26
                  
               
                     were found regarding mills of which no information now exists.
                    The history of Noble Township in the 
                  
                            Rush County
                         Atlas (1879), contains the following statements: 
                        The first mills were one built by Wm. Robinson on the Abijah Hunt farm and one that John
                            Perkins had on Pleasant Run near where the Baptist Church now stands.
                        At this time, John Perkins had a distillery on his farm and a horse power tread mill. Some
                            years later he built a mill on Little Plat Rock near where the Pleasant Run Baptist Church
                            now stands (1888).
                    
            
            These two quotations from histories of the township and county evidently refer to the same two
                    places, one located about two miles west of 
                        New Salem
                     and one a mile and a half north of the same town. Nothing more could be found regarding
                    these mills.
            
                    I. THE GLIDDEN SAWMILL
               
                    The first mill on Flat Rock was a sawmill built on the regulation type [sash sawmill]. This
                        sawmill was built and owned by Josiah Glidden. The land on which this mill was built now belongs
                        to the Newgeon heirs and is about 2 miles northwest of 
                            Lewisville
                        . It had a 6 1/2 foothead of water, a short race and a three-foot dam. They used a
                        type of water wheel called a flutter-wheel. It passed out about the year 1895. [J.N.]4
               
                    II. THE WILLIAM CAR MILLS AND FACTORY
               
                    Wm. Carr's Mill was located one-half mile north of Raleigh on Flat Rock in 
                            Washington
                         township, 
                            Rush County
                        , in sections 12–13, T15N, R10E [Township 15N, Range 10E]. These mills
                        consisted of a flouring mill, a sawmill, and a spinning-wheel factory. Carr located his mills
                        and factory in the year 1845. He first built a sawmill and a few years afterwards built his
                        flouring-mill and wheel factory.
                    The spinning-wheel industry was flourishing in those days—there was the small
                        spinning-wheel, the large wheel, reel spinning-wheel and the reel on which all this yam was
                        reeled or wound. These old reels 
                     
                        3 The known mills and mill sites are noted on the map accompanying
                                this article and each is given a key number on the map. The same key number is set
                                opposite the name of the mill in the following sketches, making reference easier. Due to
                                the size of the map, it was impossible to place the names of the mills on it. It will be
                                noted that the mill sketches which follow are arranged in order from the source of Flat
                                Rock to its mouth, the mills on tributaries being placed from their sources to their
                                mouths, at the point where they enter the main stream. The mill farthest upstream was
                                the Glidden Sawmill, an account of which is given first in the series of sketches.
                     
                                
                           4 All of the sketches among those presented in this series that
                                    were written by John Nipp, Sr., are indicated by the initials "J.
                                    N." in brackets.
                                The following statement copied from a history of 
                                        Henry County
                                    , evidently refers to the Glidden Sawmill: "Probably the first
                                    mill of any kind in the township (
                                        Franklin
                                     Township, 
                                        Henry County
                                    ) was a saw mill, north of 
                                        Lewisville
                                    , built by Robert 
                                        Butler
                                    . Afterward a grist mill on the same site was run for a few
                                    years."
                                There was not much chance to build mills that could be operated successfully along
                                    the upper course of Flat Rock River, as the following sentences, also from a history
                                    of 
                                        Henry County
                                    , reveal: "Flat Rock ‘drags its slow length
                                    along’ near the middle of the township (
                                        Franklin
                                    ), and, although at two or three other points it has been compelled to
                                    do duty as a mill stream, it has never established much of a character for
                                    energy."
                            
                  
                         would hold 60 cuts of yarn and no more. When turned exactly
                        60 revolutions, there was some mechanical arrangement inside of the enclosed body that would
                        cause them to snap or knock. It was then that the spinster knew she had a cut of yarn on her
                        reel. According to count, this was about 600 feet of yarn per reel.
                    This man, Wm. Carr, was known as a wheel-wright by trade and was a good mechanic.
                    The mill operated under a four-foot head of water and used the old fashioned wooden wheels. His
                        dam was 2 feet high and it damaged lots of good land. These mills, as well as the man, have long
                        since passed.[J.N.]
                    III. THE AMMONS OR NIPP MILLS
               
                    A sawmill was built on Flatrock, in section 36, T15N, RUE, two and one-half miles south of
                        Raleigh by Adam Ammons in 1847–48. A 35-barrel flouring mill was built in
                        1854–55. These mills were built by John Nipp, the father of the writer, who
                        afterwards bought these mills. They were then known as the Nipp Mills. The sawmill would cut
                        about 2000 feet of merchantable lumber per day. It was converted into a muley-mill in 1868. The
                        grist-mill made flour and meal and was run as a country custom-mill.
                    In 1878, the writer [John Nipp, Sr.] of this article bought these mills. He discontinued the use
                        of the sawmill, but changed the flour mill to the roller system of milling, put in a new turbine
                        water-wheel and made a cement forebay or penstock, using the first cement in 
                            Rush County
                        , buying it in 
                     Louisville, Kentucky
                  . A 13-acre pond of water was
                        impounded by a low rebuilt dam. This mill was operated by a 9-foot head of water, had a mill
                        race one mile long and a very low dam.
                    John Nipp sold this mill in 1880 and bought it back in 1894 and kept it till after the World War
                        in 1918. He sold it to Ray Whitten, who afterwards sold it to his brother, Will Whitten, who is
                        running it every day. However, the flouring mill ceased to exist many years ago. It is the only
                        water mill in operation on Flat Rock north of 
                            Rushville
                        .
                    [J.N.]
                
            In addition to the information given above by John Nipp, Sr., the following is based on information
                    from Wm. Whitten, the present operator:
            The building now standing is the original building and is built of hand-hewed poplar timber cut in
                    the vicinity. It is now powered by iron turbines in two sizes, 25 H.P. and 16 H.P. These are used
                    when there is plenty of water or a shortage, respectively. They operate under a head of nine feet. A
                    gasoline motor furnishes stand-by power when water fails due to drouth. The original sstone buhr is
                    still in place and is used in grinding corn meal and feed. This buhr is a French buhr 4 feet in
                    diameter and weighs 2 tons. The original water wheels were horizontal wooden wheels, the forerunner
                    of the  modern and semi-modern types of metal turbines. The mill
                    race is 1 1/2 miles long and was dug by oxen and man-power. In one of the grain elevators, used in
                    elevating grain to the bins on the top floor of the mill, is a leather belt which was reputed to
                    have been installed when the mill was built. The Senior Nipp went horseback to 
                        Cincinnati
                     and carried the belt back. It is said to have cost $65 at that time. In
                    addition to the stone buhr mentioned above, the water power now drives a cider press, a hammer mill
                    and a steel buhr mill.
            
                    IV. THE ERTBL-NIPP MILLS
               
                    The Ertel Mills and woolen factory were built by John Nipp, the father of the writer, in
                        1846–47. They had a saw mill, a corn grinding mill and a wool carding machine. This
                        machine was calculated to take the raw wool and convert it into rolls for the spinning wheels.
                        This plant was located just one-half mile below the Nipp mills. In fact, these mills were so
                        close together that Ertel backed the water on Nipp to such an extent that he [Ertel] was
                        compelled to lower his dam six inches or pay damages for backing the water on the Nipp mill. As
                        Nipp had the priority in claims, Ertel only had at best a 4-foot head of water, while Nipp had a
                        9-foot head. John Nipp made every bit of the Ertel Mill, excepting the wool carding machinery.
                        He made all four of the wooden water wheels that ran the factory. He built the entire plant
                        which was a large one. The sawmill was 65 feet long and 24 feet wide. The woolen mill, a three
                        story structure, was 50 by 60 feet and was ceiled inside. These mills were run day and night for
                        several years. They did a tremendous business before and during the Civil War. This mill was
                        also prepared to grind corn and feed. Well do I remember going to mill at these mills when I was
                        a youngster a-straddle a horse. But, alas, nothing remains to be seen now at that busy mart but
                        a single mill-stone which is the only marker of that lonely spot. [J.N.]
                    V. THE KIRKPATKICK MILL
               
                    The David Kirkpatrick Mill was located in 
                            Washington
                         township on a small tributary to Flatrock called Shawnee Fork. This mill was
                        located on the David Kirkpatrick farm, 2 miles west of Falmouth and 1/2 mile north.
                    This mill was strictly a corn and wheat grinding mill. The stream was small and so was the entire
                        outfit, but it did its work well, but slow. It was said of this mill that it only gave out 3 or
                        4 horse power and it would grind with much less power than that. Its capacity was from half a
                        bushel to a bushel of com per hour. It did some custom work, but it was designed to do the
                        grinding for the Kirkpatrick family.5 [J.N.]
                    
                  
                     5 Mr. Nipp adds the following: "There WAS
                            a legend that goes with the history of this mill—here it is: One day while the
                            miller was operating this mill, the meal stopped coming down the spout. On looking up, the
                            miller saw a very large yellowhammer (bird) sitting on a beam eating the corn as fast as it
                            came down the spout. The miller sbooed this big bird away and the meal came down as usual.
                            This crude mill has long since passed and so has the legend of the big
                        bird."
               
                    
                    VI. THE VERMONT AND WATSON MILLS
               
                    The lone mill on Shankitank was called the 
                            Vermont
                         Mill or the John Watson Sawmill. It was built on Shankitank, a tributary of Flat
                        Rock in 1844. This saw mill was also called Moffit's Mill. It was located in Onion
                        township, about one mile north of the Smelser's mills on the west side of the river.
                        They had an 8-foot head of water, a 5-acre basin of water, a mill race one-half mile long and no
                        dam.
                    This water mill was converted into what was called a muley steam mill afterward by one Estell
                        Moffit and a mechanic by the name of Gilbert Abrahams. This mill afterward blew up in the year
                        of 1866 and never was repaired. No one was hurt in this boiler explosion, but the mill went out
                        of business and never was operated after this event. [J. N.]
                    VII. THE SMELSER OR
                            "TIM" WHITE MILL
               
                    The first grinding mill was built at a point on Flat Rock River two miles directly west of
                        Ging's Station in 1822 or 1823 by one John (or "Boss") Smelser, the
                        great-grandfather of the Smelsers of 
                            Rush County
                        . This mill was the best and most popular mill in the county for many years. It was
                        said that he owned, at one time, in fee simple 2200 acres of 
                            Rush County
                         land. A saw mill and distillery was built several years later. He operated this
                        distillery in connection with his grist mill. The distillery was operated both day and night for
                        many years, and its capacity was from 15 to 24 barrels every 24 hours.
                    The small mill that Smelser built in 1833 was for many years the best and most popular mill in
                        the country, but had become too small to handle the business of the community ten years later. A
                        company was formed in 1843 composed of the following named persons: Gail Hiatt, Timothy P. White
                        and Jacob Daubenspeck. A new 50-barrel flour mill was built and the old one torn down. The
                        distillery was discontinued but the community was known as Smelser's Mills and was
                        composed of the mills, a good grocery store and a postoffice. This was in 1860. Since then, the
                        mills are gone, the grocery is gone and the post-office is gone.
                    The mill was operated by an 8-foot head of water. The mill race was very long but the diversion
                        dam was only 2 feet high. This flouring mill ran for many years with this out-of-date equipment.
                        But in 1870, T. P. White, who owned the mill at this time, made some valauble improvements on it
                        and its capacity was increased to 100 barrels per day. A new 50 horsepower turbine water wheel
                        was installed and a renovating of the wheat cleaning department was made. The White Mills had no
                        equal for custom grinding in the state. I acted as miller at these mills in the year of 1875
                        when I ground as much as 200 bushels of wheat in one day. I would make out of a bushel of good
                        Number One wheat (good sixty pound wheat), as much as thirty-six pounds of good family flour,
                        and twelve pounds of bran and shorts, after taking out oneeighth toll. In the year 1876, Mr.
                        White told me that his flouring mill had made him more money than his farm of 750 acres of land.
                        The  profits of the year that I was there were something
                        over five thousand dollars. At that time everyone went to mill, as the mills handled all the
                        flour and meal. That was the period just before the advent of the paper sack. As soon as the
                        paper sack came into common use, the groceryman commenced to handle flour from the foreign mills
                        and that thing sealed the doom of the small mills of the country.
                    Mr. White gave me one-half of what the mill made and furnished me a dwelling house and cow
                        pasture. He gave me a horse and buggy on Sunday and still I was not satisfied. Accordingly, I
                        left Mr. White in the fall of 1876 to better my condition. There were at that time, as many as 8
                        or 10 flouring mills in 
                            Rush County
                        . But today there is not one grain of wheat made into flour in this county by
                        water-powered mills. [J.N.]
                    VIII. THE NIPP SAWMILL
               
                    This sawmill [owned by George and John Nipp] was built on the Oliver Norris farm in the year of
                        1838. It was just east of the Norris Schoolhouse, on the west bank of Flat Rock. Traces of the
                        mill race can be seen on the east side of the Old Clint Norris farm near the river in sections
                        16–21, T14N, R10E.
                    The dam was about 3 feet high and was built out of logs. That height of dam and the fall in the
                        river made a 6-foot head of water to run the mill. The mill was a regulation sawmill and had a
                        wooden water wheel of the flutter type. It would cut about 1800 feet of merchantable lumber per
                        day.
                    George and John Nipp owned 320 acres of land east of this mill. This area comprised the land
                        afterward owned by Dr. Wm. Smith and Purnell Bishop (1888). They failed to take the benefit of
                        the bankrupt law of 1841 and thereby lost the land. The mill had an imperfect title so they let
                        it all go together as land was very cheap in those days. There was a dwelling house and an acre
                        of land that went with this mill.
                    It was located in Union township, 
                            Rush County
                        ; was built in 1838 and was dismantled only a few years after it was built. [J.N.]
                    IX. THE REUBEN ROLAND MILL
               
                    This mill was located on Ben Davis or Mahoning Creek, 2 1/2 miles northeast of 
                            Rushville
                        , Indiana, and was owned and built by Reuben Roland, a native of 
                            Rush County
                        . It had a short race, a three-foot dam, a seven-foot head of water and used a
                        wooden water wheel. It was a custom grinding mill and had the customary machinery for doing such
                        work. It was made out of wood throughout—even the gearing that ran the bolting gears
                        was of wood. It was the principal neighborhood mill until the new Smelser Mill started to grind.
                        There are two legends that go with this old mill.
                    Wm. Carr, the wheelwright and the millwright, who built the Carr Mill just north of Raleigh, was
                        miller at the Roland Mill in 1845 when the new Smelser Mill started to grind. It was at this
                        time that Carr saw a man on horseback with a full sack of grain across the horse's
                        withers coming up the road from the south. Carr was upstairs in the  mill at that time, so he came downstairs and went to the mill door.
                        This man went by the mill and on to the Smelser Mill a few miles north of the Roland Mill. He
                        went to this mill and found that it was two or three days behind with its grinding, so he
                        brought his sack of wheat back to the Roland Mill. Mr. Carr met him at the mill door and what he
                        said to him was plenty. He would not take the bag of corn off the horse and cursed him. The man
                        went to 
                            Rushville
                         and sued Carr for the treatment accorded him. The Justice-of-the-Peace fined Carr
                        twenty-five cents for his crime.
                    Mr. Roland had a distillery in connection with his grinding mill, and the water for the
                        condensers was pumped by dog power. Roland constructed a tread mill and geared it to a pump, so
                        that all the water that supplied his condensers was pumped by dog power. The arrangement was
                        made to accommodate two dogs at a time, and the weight of those two dogs would pump sufficient
                        water to run this still. Many sheep killing dogs were taken to Roland for work. Mr. Emmett
                        Kennedy who is sponsor for this tale, said that Roland had more dogs furnished to him than he
                        could use. He usually kept three dogs in a pen that served time on the tread mill. These dogs we
                        had in our grandfather's day were large dogs—much larger than the little
                        fice that infest 
                            Rushville
                         nowadays. Roland had a 6-foot head of water and wooden water wheels. This mill ran
                        about 6 months in the year.
                    Remnants of this water wheel shaft and the main gearing were visible to the passers-by [of] the
                        Roland mill in 1865, but nothing remains now but the uneven earth, indicating that a building
                        once stood there.
                    Mr. Emmett Kennedy showed me the deed [patent] that his father, Hon. A. M. Kennedy, got from
                        Roland. That deed [patent] was made 100 years ago by James 
                            Madison
                         [Andrew Jackson] when he was president of these 
                            United States
                        . This deed [patent] was made March 20, 1832. [J.N.]
                    X. THE HINCHMAN SAWMILL
               
                    The John H. Hinchman sawmill, built in 1832 by Jonathan Bishop, was located just north of the
                        Marshall Blacklidge (1888) farm in Union township, in Sections 23–26, T14N, R10E,
                        about four miles northeast of 
                            Rushville
                        . It was run by the waters of Ben Davis Creek and was a regulation sawmill. It could
                        cut about twelve hundred feet of merchantable timber per day. This mill was operated only in the
                        spring of the year during the freshets when there was plenty of water. It had a six-foot head of
                        water, a two hundred-yard race, and a three-foot dam. [J.N.]
                
            The following information, from a history of the county, determines that this was the first sawmill
                    in Union township, 
                        Rush County
                    : "The first sawmill was built on Ben Davis Creek by Peter Shafer on land now
                    (1888) owned by George  Gray, south of J.W. Looney's
                    farm." According to location notes given by Mr. Nipp, this latter mill was about a mile
                    upstream from the Hinchman-Nipp mill.
            
                    XI. THE LAUGHLIN AND CARMICHAEL MILLS
               
                    The Laughlin mill and dam were built in 
                            Rushville
                        , in sections 5–6, Township 14N, Range 10E, in 1832 by Judge Wm. B.
                        Laughlin. The mill dam, which was located where the south bridge [on State Roads 52 and 53] now
                        crosses Flat Rock, so affected the health of Rushille that people would not tolerate it which
                        caused Mr. Laughlin to remove his dam just two years after it was built.
                    The John R. Carmichael mill was built on the Laughlin site in 1838, but Carmichael ran his race
                        upstream and built his dam three-fourths of a mile above 
                            Rushville
                         and that location is still in use today. Carmichael had a fall of water of about
                        eleven and one-half feet at the mill, and his race was about one and one-half miles long with a
                        four-foot diversion dam across Flat Rock at its upper end.
                    This mill ran during the Civil War and made its owner a mint of money. It did business with the
                        entire country. Then it was operated by a large wooden overshot water wheel which was
                        approximately twelve feet wide and eleven feet in diameter. This wheel was large enough to run
                        three runs of four-foot buhrs and make 150 barrels of flour per day.
                    We find that John Carmichael put the first steam engine in his mill on Flat Rock in 1868. The
                        stream went dry for two years and all the millers on Flat Roock had to do the same as
                        Carmichael. It was John Carmichael who made the remark after he had taken his overshot wheel out
                        and put in a turbine, that if he had the 
                            Mississippi
                         River flowing down his mill race, he could grind.
                    This property has changed hands a great many times since the death of John Carmichael. It was
                        owned at one time by Aaron Frazee (1888) and later by I. & C. Traction Company, which
                        bought it for cooling their engines with water. Mr. Charles Alger bought it in 1909 and put in a
                        full set of rolls to make flour and spent several thousand dollars for repairs. The last four
                        years of depression has had a telling effect on this mill. [J.N.]
                
            In addition to the above historical sketch furnished by John Nipp, Sr., it was found that the mill
                    was owned by Wm. H. Young, a native of 
                        Ohio
                     until 1935 when it was bought by Ralph Nipp, a son of Mr. Nipp, who is remodeling it
                    and installing new machinery, to be operated by water powered turbines.
            
            From a history of 
                        Rushville
                     and 
                        Rush County
                     further information may be added. Mr. Nipp states that this quotation refers to a steam
                    auxiliary added to the water powered Carmichael mill: 
                        In 1840, Harvey W. Carr, Joseph Nichols, Joseph McPike and Dr. William Frame formed a company
                            and built the steam mill, to which was attached a sawmill. In 1845, John and Jesse
                            Carmichael bought it. After running it for some time, Jesse went out and Lewis Maddux, James
                            Hibben and John Carmichael became the owners. In a short time, Hibben and Maddux sold their
                            interest and it has been ever since the property of John Carmichael. In July of 1887, Mr.
                            Carmichael put in the roller process works.
                    
            
            At one time, the Carmichael Mills were known as the "City Mills" as attested by the
                    following quotation from a History of Indiana Industries: "City Mills—Alger and
                    Gray, props.—Flour Mill." Brands of Flour manufactured were
                    "Princess" (changed name to "Finest") and
                    "Eureka." Mr. Alger conducted the mill at Glenwood for a number of years. Alger
                    and Gray became proprietors of the "City Mills" in 1895. The Carmichael Mills were
                    sold to Owen F. Carr in the summer of 1908 for $800, according to a Centennial History of 
                        Rush County
                    .
            As a matter of interest, Mr. Nipp has added the following description of the 
                        Rushville
                     or Alexander Posey Distillery which was dependent upon the Carmichael Mill for its
                    ground grain for mash.
            
                    The 
                            Rushville
                         Distillery was started in the year 1850 and was built and owned by Alexander Posey.
                        He also owned a bank in 
                            Rushville
                         called "The Posey Bank." A distillery was the most common thing
                        imaginable in those days, and there were no small towns or villages that did not have a
                        distillery. Some of these towns had two of them. There Were no restraints against people doing
                        anything of this kind that they wished to do. People would take their corn to these distilleries
                        and in return get corn whiskey, the amount being based on a percentage arrangement similar to
                        that used in grinding flour and meal. It was so cheap then that you could get a gallon of good
                        corn whiskey for 25 cents per gallon.
                    This distillery in 
                            Rushville
                         was located south of the Carmichael mill race on half an acre of land. The main
                        building was a wooden structure about 40 feet wide, 60 feet long, and three stories high. This
                        distillery had a capacity of 25 barrels per day. I was there but one time—my
                        recollection of the machinery is as follows: They had two 
                        large tubs or wooden tanks about 12 feet in diameter and 3 or 4 feet high. They used 2 small
                        copper coils instead of one large coil. These condensing coils were located on the east side of
                        the building. They got their condensing water out of the Carmichael mill race. They used a
                        2-inch iron pipe laid underground for this purpose. Mr. Posey had no corn or rye grinder and
                        consequently John Carmichael did all his corn and rye grinding. They tell me that many farmers
                        would take their corn to the distillery and take it out in corn whiskey. [J.N.]
                
            XII. THE HUNGERFORD MILLS
            
            These mills were built on Flat Rock, in section 4, Township 12N, Range 9E, about 1835 by Calvin
                    Hungerford. A grist-mill and a sash sawmill were both operated here at the same time. The grist-mill
                    had two runs of stones, one for wheat and one for corn. The race was 1 1/2 miles in length and was
                    dug by oxen and men. Wages were 12 1/2 cents per day. Good progress was made so that wages were
                    increased to 15 cents per day for the last quarter mile. The mills were operated under approximately
                    a seven-foot head of water. Some of the foundation walls for the grist mill are still in place
                    (1936), one portion being used as a corn-crib foundation. The foundations for the setting of the
                    flutter-wheel used in the operation of the sawmill can also be seen. However, both are in a farm
                    yard today, and, although the traces of the mill-race, forebay, foundations and tailrace can still
                    be seen, they have been leveled by the feet of farm animals and by weathering. The mill was bought
                    from Calvin Hungerford, its owner and operator, by Asa Forsythe in 1870. He operated it until 1884
                    when it was abandoned as a flour mill. William E. Roth, who has lived there thirty-nine years,
                    bought the farm and mill in 1896. At that time the buildings were still partially standing.
            Quite a bit of the above information was secured from Mr. and Mrs. Frank Whitinger, aged 88 and 82
                    respectively (1936), who lived in the neighborhood 80 years and who were small children when the
                    mill there was being operated at its greatest efficiency. Mrs. Whitinger said she could remember
                    that whenever the silk covering the bolting apparatus was changed, the girls of the family had new
                    silk dresses made of the cloth after it was dyed.
            Jess Wiley, as a boy of twelve, operated the Hungerford mill for several years for the owner, Mr.
                    Roth. This was from 1896 to 1904. Mr. Wiley was seventeen when he left this job. He states that the
                    mill was approximately forty by fifty feet  in size and three
                    stories high, with a basement ceiling built well above the ground level. The mil-pond and the lower
                    part of the mill-race were all on embankment. In later years (about 1890) an island formed in the
                    center of the mill-pond, the pond silting up until the water was only about two feet deep. Cattle
                    stood in this pond to keep off the flies.
            In these years only feed was ground on the two buhrs of the mill, the flouring machinery being
                    entirely abandoned. It had the usual sash saw driven by a turbine. Another turbine operated the
                    windlass which pulled the logs to the carriage and also pulled the carriage back, after the cut was
                    made through the log. The sawmill was located on the south side of the oblong shaped mill-pond and
                    the grist-mill was on the west side and south side, while the mill-race entered it on the northwest
                    side. The pond was approximately 300 feet in diameter. Traces of it may still be seen.
            XIII. THE SCULL-HARCOURT MILLS
            
            The John Scull Woolen Mill was located about three-quarters of a mile above Moscow and about a mile
                    downstream from the Hungerford mills, in Section 8, Township 12N, Range 9E, on Flat Rock River. This
                    mill was powered by a small horizontal water-wheel and probably had a two-foot or a three-foot dam.
                    According to John Nipp, Sr., water was supplied through a mill-race about 3/4 of a mile in length. A
                    woolen mill of this type required about four horsepower for the operations which it handled; namely,
                    picking, greasing, carding and spinning. In these operations, the wool was taken first as it was
                    sheared from the sheep and run through the picker. This separated the wool from the burrs, sticks,
                    and trash that had gotten in it as the sheep wandered through the swamps and wood-lands. It was then
                    greased with stale lard, preferably, so that it would lay straight when carded. In the carding
                    process, it was separated into strands and placed in piles so that it could be readily handled in
                    the spinning. This operation consisted in twisting the strands into threads by means of the
                    foot-power operated spinning wheel. This mill specialized in the manufactured rolls (wool ready for
                    spinning), blankets, coverlids, and rough jeans cloth for clothing. The Mrs. Whitinger mentioned
                    above in connection with the account of the Hungerford mills, had one of the coverlids made  by this mill draped over an old-fashioned sofa in her living
                    room.
            This mill was one of what might be called a chain of mills, which were established in
                    1858–60 for woolen manufacturing under the sponsorship of the Rothschild's,
                    capitalists. The Ertel Mills and the John Paul Mill were two others of the same type, on Flat Rock,
                    according to Mr. Nipp. John Scull was a Methodist minister and rode a circuit in the vicinty for
                    several years.
            After the woolen mill failed to make an adequate living for its owner, John Scull, the mill was
                    transformed into a sawmill and wheat drill factory by James Harcourt, the new owner. It was operated
                    in this capacity until 1890, when it was abandoned. It burned in 1893. This drill factory was
                    probably built in the sixties. Ira Harcourt, who lives on the adjacent farm, thinks that it was
                    about 1865.
            No information was available as to head or the type of wheel, but from the appearance of the ground,
                    the head was probably about seven feet, and a horizontal wooden wheel, followed by a turbine later,
                    probably furnished the power.
            
                    XIV. THE MOSCOW MILLS.
                    There has been a water-powered mill in Moscow continuously since the town was started in 
                            Rush County
                         shortly after 1820. The first mill that was ever built in Moscow was located about
                        100 feet north of the present mill in Section 18, T12N, R9E, and was built about 1822 by John
                        Woods and David Querry. This mill was built of round logs and had a still-house adjacent to it.
                        Later there were two distilleries with varied capacities, ranging from ten to twenty gallons of
                        corn whiskey per day, located about 190 yards above the mill site. At that time Moscow had a
                        hundred population.
                    This mills at Moscow were operated by Moses T. Conrad and Job Feaster from 1876 to 1880,
                        according to Sherman Conrad, a son of Moses Conrad. In the 
                     
                                Rush County
                             Atlas (1879), they were known [listed] as the M. T. Conrad Flour and Grist
                        Mill, Saw Mill with Water Power, 10 ft. fall. A map shows the layout of the property at that
                        time.
                    The mills at Moscow went through varied changes until Park Washburn and A.V. Barlow bought this
                        property in 1880, six years before the two-span wooden covered bridge was built by the Kennedys
                        in 1886. Milling was a very good business during this period and Mr. Washburn spent at least
                        $8,000 in repairing the flouring mill. He installed a full set of rolls and built as
                        good a 50 barrel mill as there was in the country. He also put in a new circular sawmill and
                        added a steam engine to help the water wheel in low water periods. Washburn also installed a
                        66-inch 
                            New Dayton
                         water wheel to run the saw mill.
                    
                    Afterwards Moscow was a lumber town. The first thing you saw as you entered town was lumber and
                        the last thing that you saw as you left was lumber. When Park Washburn got all the timber cut
                        out of the neighborhood, he sold out his milling interests to James Wright, a farmer in 1912.
                        Mr. Wright kept the property eight years and sold it to Joe Clark in 1920. He razed the mill and
                        sold it for junk and that ended the flour mill in Moscow. [J.N.]
                
            John Nipp, Sr., who furnished the above information bought the mill property in 1921 and sold it to
                    John M. Wyman, the present owner, in 1930, who built a new building to replace the one razed by
                    Clark and installed an 83-inch improved 
                        Dayton
                     water-wheel to operate a first class feed mill. The mill is operated by water power
                    under a ten-foot head with a gasoline engine for additional power through the low water periods of
                    the year. This mill also grinds corn meal and graham flour on the old stone buhrs of the original
                    mill.
            This mill property has had fifteen owners since its original patent to John Wood in 1820. It was
                    deeded to John Smawley in 1837; to William Fellows in 1848; to 
                        Franklin
                     and Alonzo Swain in 1850; to Erastus Bussell in 1855; to Erastus L. Floyd in 1855; to
                    Jacob Feaster in 1857; to 
                        Israel
                     Buehl in 1858; to Daniel Feaster in 1859; to Moses Conrad in 1876; to Arise V. Barlow
                    in 1880; to Elihu P. Washburn in 1896; to James Wright in 1912; to Joe Clark in 1920; to John Nipp,
                    Sr., in 1921; and to John M. Wyman, the present owner in 1930. The range in selling price has varied
                    from $700 to $5,-000.
            XV. THE OWEN MILLS
            
            
               
                        Marion
                     Owen was the last owner and operator of the Owen Mill, two miles south of Moscow on
                    Flat Rock River in 
                        Orange
                     Township, 
                        Rush County
                    , Indiana. This mill was abandoned in 1888 and was dismantled in 1914.6
            
            In the year of 1818 or 1819, Joseph Owen, accompanied by his wife, Tamar Millikan Owen, settled in
                    the pioneer community about two miles south of the town of Moscow in 
                        Rush County
                    , Indiana. Mr. Owen came from 
                        Georgia
                     and his wife from 
                        South Carolina
                    .
            In 1820 he built a rude grist-mill on Flat Rock River, the first in 
                        Orange
                     township, using a "pitch-back" water-wheel 
                  
                     6 The historical data regarding the Owen mill which follow are related
                            substantially as given by Mr. Owen in 1936.
               
                     as a source of power.7 This mill was
                    operated for nine or ten years and was then moved down stream in 1830 so as to secure more fall,
                    thereby developing greater power from the same flow of water. The dam was located at the same point
                    as before and the water was carried through a mill-race almost a mile long to the mill site, in
                    Section 29, Township 12N, Kange 9E. This mill-race was started in 1825 and was completed in three
                    years. Yokes of oxen, pulling wooden moldboard plows, loosened the earth which was moved by men with
                    wheelbarrows and shovels. Large boulders were pried out with wooden bars or lifted and carried by
                    the workmen.8
            
            At the new site, both a grist-mill and a sawmill were built and operated by Joseph Owen with the aid
                    of his three sons, Ben, Millikan and Joe. Andrew Stevens was the mill-wright employed to plan and
                    supervise the construction of both mills. The sawmill was located about a quarter of a mile upstream
                    from the grist-mill and was supplied by water from the main mill-race by a branch extending in an
                    easterly direction to the low earthen bluff forming the second bank of the stream.9
            
            Of the descendants of the three sons mentioned above, two of the sons of Millikan Owen retained an
                    active interest in milling work, and especially in the mills described above. There were four of
                    these sons, Oliver, Ben, 
                        Marion
                     and Millikan. The two latter sons operated the grist-mill and sawmill and built the
                    last wooden water wheel in furnishing power for the buhrs of the mill.
            The sawmill was abandoned with the advent of the improved steam engine, probably about 1880, but the
                    grist-mill was operated for several years until the flour salesmen from the big flour mills of the
                    northwest placed their "hard-wheat" flour in all the country stores of the
                    territory served by the Owen Mill. The last operation of the mill for the custom grinding of flour
                    was in 1888. Coupled with the above competition there came a series of years of high-water in Flat
                    Rock River caused by a combination of circumstances such as the cutting off of forest cover, the
                    drainage of the land, and excessive rainfall. These floods washed out the dam and caused
                    considerable 
                  
                     7 According to the 
                        
                                    Rush County
                                 Atlas (1879), Mr. Owen also had a still-house in connection with his
                            mill.
                  
                     8 Isaiah McCoy, my great-grandfather, related many stories concerning
                            his work on this mill-race.
                  
                     9 A map of these buildings and of the dam and mill-race is shown in
                            the Rush County Atlas (1879).
               
                     damage to the water-wheels, making it economically impossible
                    to meet the keen competition of the big mills.
            Thus, the old custom, whereby the farmer hauled his wheat to the mill at threshing time and left it
                    "on deposit" there for the year's flour supply for his family, became
                    obsolete and another pioneer custom became a thing of the past. The importance of the pioneer
                    grist-mill as a social center for the community and as a business enterprise was great. 
                        Marion
                     Owen stated to the writer that in his remembrance (age now 88), as many as seventy-two
                    wagons brought grists to the mill in twenty-four hours and at times four-horse teams were used, due
                    to the bad condition of the roads. This custom came from a radius of eight to ten miles, although
                    there were times when many came as far as sixteen to twenty miles. Mr. Owen stated that quite a
                    number came from Laurel, oh the Whitewater Canal, in those days.
            Mr. Owen related several details in the construction of the mill that were of much interest. One that
                    seems strange to us now is the cutting of a yellow poplar tree thirty-six inches in diameter for the
                    hub of the last pitch-back water-wheel for the grist-mill. The water-wheel was eighteen feet in
                    diameter, was six feet wide over all, and had a double row of buckets as shown in the picture of it.
                    Its speed was eight revolutions per minute and it developed approximately twenty-five-horse-power.
                    This wheel was built by the two brothers, 
                        Marion
                     and Pate (Pate was the nickname for 
                        Marion
                    's brother Millikan). He told how they went into the woods, picked out a yellow
                    poplar tree of the proper size, cut it down, hewed it into an octagonal stick of timber of the right
                    length, laid out and cut the mortises (four by sixteen inches, by twelve inches deep) for the arms
                    of the wheel, cut the gudgeon seats and then hauled the stick to the mill site where the gudgeons
                    (cast-iron pivots on which the wheel rotated) were installed and the gudgeon bands shrunk on, after
                    heating, to hold them in place. After this work was completed, the remainder of the wheel was built.
            The smaller gearing in the mill was practically all of cast iron while most of the larger gears were
                    of wood. These large gears were mainly spur gears, the teeth of which were made of hard-sugar or
                    maple wood. The gearing used in the new mill was the same as that used in the first one and came
                    from the foundry of James Bradley and Bros, of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and  from a foundry at Laurel, located on the old
                    Whitewater Canal.
            The mill had a capacity of 100 barrels of flour in 24 hours. In the milling season, mills were run
                    day and night in order to accommodate the patrons who had come great distances to mill. Water was
                    usually plentiful so that the mill could operate at its full capacity of three runs of stones. Four
                    runs were installed but the fourth was never used. Two runs were French buhrs, used in the grinding
                    of flour, one run was of Racoon buhrs, used in grinding feed and the fourth was Sand Creek buhrs
                    which were never used. It is said that the two pairs of French buhrs were hauled overland from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     by oxen.
            This mill was operated under lease by Moses T. Conrad from 1871 to 1877. The dam washed out in 1876
                    and he abandoned his lease. This led to a very interesting item, related by Mr. Owen, concerning the
                    construction of a new stone dam to replace the one washed out by floods of the previous spring. Work
                    was started on August 6, 1877, and the dam was completed November 6th, of the same year, just three
                    months being required for its construction. 
                        Marion
                     and his brother Pate were there every day helping the stone masons to hurry the work of
                    completion. The following statement is of interest in connection with the Owen Mill: 
                        Owen Bros. of Moscow, 
                                Rush County
                            , Indiana, have put in a new stone dam, the finest in the State. The dam was
                            constructed by John H. Eck, the stones being laid on the solid rock and fastened securely
                            with dowel pins, thus making it unusually strong and not likely to give way. Messrs. Owen
                            Bros, are now prepared to do all kinds of custom work at their flour mill; they have also a
                            saw-mill, and are prepared to do a general business in this line.10
                  
                    
            
            According to Mr. Owen, there was, and is, a certain glamour to milling. This included the
                    construction, maintenance and operation of the dam, mill-race, water-wheel, gearing and setting of
                    buhrs, bolting machines and sacking machinery. Probably a goodly portion of it lies in seeing the
                    picture of the old mill on a flour sack with the firm's name underneath it. These early
                    millers were men who took pride in their handiwork, more especially because this work consisted in
                    serving their fellow men with flour and meal, from which the staff of life was made in the pioneer
                    rural community. In addition to 
                  
                     10 From The Millstone. Dee., 187T. Published at 
                                Indianapolis
                             by David H. Ranek.
               
                     the glamour, there were certain pecuniary rewards, especially
                    in normal times when no highwater or drouth conditions interfered with the operation of the mill.
                    When more efficient steam engines came on the market and improvements were made in the flour mill
                    machinery and power transmission, the margin of profits dropped in the milling industry and the old
                    water-powered mills were slated for discard because of their inefficiency.11
            
            In the interview with Mr. Owen, he pointed out that Flat Rock River with its tributaries had been one
                    of the principal milling streams of Indiana. No less than fourteen mills were located on the main
                    stream between the town of Flat Rock in 
                        Shelby
                     County and the source of the stream in 
                        Henry County
                    . Some of these were grist-mills and some were sawmills, while others were combinations
                    of the two.
            Mr. Owen visited all of these mills except the Smelser and Nipp Mills above 
                        Rushville
                     and gained many helpful suggestions from his observation of methods of doing milling
                    work at these various mills.
            XVI. THE MILROY MILLS
            
            According to a sketch in the 
                  
                            Rush County
                         Atlas, the first mill at Milroy was kept by Gossett and Miller. It began
                    operations in the late eighteen-twenties and after changing hands several times was abandoned about
                    1845. The motive power was an overshot wheel supplied by water from Little Flat Rock.
            Evidently, a grist-mill was also built at another site in Milroy on Little Flat Rock, for we find a
                    record of a mill built in 1832 having two runs of French buhrs driven by an over shot water wheel
                    operated under a twelve-foot head of water. This mill was two and one-half stories high and 24
                    $$ 45 feet in size.
            The old mill was abandoned and a new one built about 1890 under ownership of Moses T. Conrad. A
                    turbine and steam power were installed at this time. The full roller process was installed about
                    1892, under the ownership of J. Grabill Bickhart, a brother of Chris Bickhart, one of the owners and
                    operators of the Bailey Mill below 
                        St. Paul
                    . This new mill was 
                  
                     11 In 1931, Mr. Owen gave all of the cast-iron gears, gudgeons, etc.,
                            which were left from the dismantling of the sawmill and grist-mill to the Indiana Department
                            of Contervation which was then engaged in the restoration of a flume and a wooden
                            water-wheel, wooden mill machinery and a sash sawmill at Spring Mill State Park near 
                                Mitchell
                            , Indians.
               
                     about a hundred feet below the old one which remained many
                    years as a land mark and had a daily capacity of 75 to 100 bushels of grain per day, or 75 barrels
                    of flour. The principal brands of flour manufactured were "Pond Lily,"
                    "White Dove" and "Silver Leaf." It was still in good running
                    condition in 1899.
            Owners and operators included the following in chronological order: Thomas J. Larimore; Rice and
                    Bracken; Bracken; F.F. Swain (1855–1860); W. Ferree (Steam and Water-Powered Mill); Moses
                    T. Conrad; William T. True (bought in 1879); Conrad (repurchased the same year); J. G. Bickhart;
                    Paulus and Smith; Jones and Bowles; a Mr. VanSickle (operated the Milroy Mill,
                    1893–1897); "Doc" Gwinn (miller was 
                        Boone
                     Arbuckle); Root and Green (George Root, Manager).12
            
            The home of Hubert Innis now occupies this mill site. Traces of the mill-race and the beginning of
                    the tail race may be seen at the back and side of the house. The race extends in a general northerly
                    direction to a point north of Milroy where a dam diverted water from Little Flat Rock.
            XVII. THE JEWETT GRIST-MILL
            
            This grist-mill was located east of the former 
                        Lafayette
                     Shelhorn tenant house at a point between this house and the 
                        Lafayette
                     Shelhorn home. This location is about half a mile above the town of Downeyville and
                    just above the cemetery of the Little Flat Rock Baptist Church. It was on the north bank of Little
                    Flat Rock. Traces of the mill race and the forebay may still be seen.
            This house (the 
                        Lafayette
                     Shelhorn home) is a stone structure and was built by David Jewett, grandfather of Mrs.
                    Phoebe L. Roberts.13 It was stated in a family history that Mr. Jewett gave a
                    man a mare for building this large stone building.
            XVIII. THE PICAYUNE MILL
            
            This mill was located in the town of Downeyville on Little Flat Rock, about a mile above its junction
                    with Big Flat Rock. 
                  
                     12 The writer remembers hauling building stone to Milroy with his
                            father about 1910, and seeing the mill standing and in operation at that time.
                  
                     13 Mrs. Roberts of Adams, Indiana, was born in 1864. She remembers
                            that when she was a little girl there were a few old relics or land-marks at the mill
                        site.
               
                     The mill property lies in the SE Quarter of Section 6, Township
                    UN, Range 9E.
            It was a combined water-powered grist-mill and sash sawmill. The water was carried from the dam in a
                    wooden flume to the water-wheels located at the downstream side of the mill. The earliest wheel was
                    an overshot wheel. This was replaced by a wooden turbine wheel, the forerunner of the metal turbine
                    used later in many mills. As far as is known, no turbine was used except the wooden one. The wheels
                    operated under a head of eight feet of water.
            The exact date of its construction is not known but it was probably soon after the farm was first
                    purchased by John Shelhorn in 1820. It was the first bought in 
                        Decatur
                     County. The mill was operated by the following: John Shelhorn; Peter Sherman (1850);
                    Charles Flinn and Isaac G. White (partners, 1854 to 1862); Daniel H. Banta (1862 to 1864); Jesse T.
                    Hamilton (1864 to 1867); Joshua Kelly (1867 to his death). It was next operated by Elisha Wyatt, an
                    heir, until his death in 1872, then by various other parties. The mill was abandoned in 1884. About
                    1895 or 1896, the timber was salvaged by Elmer Shelhorn who used it in the construction of a barn
                    which burned a few years ago.
            No exact data was found as to the derivation of the name "Picayune Mill." However,
                    it is believed that this was a nickname given because of its small size, from the picayune, a small
                    silver coin used in the early part of the nineteenth century and valued at six and one-fourth cents.
                    This small mill was rebuilt in 1854. Even after its reconstruction, the mill was much smaller than
                    those usually found in the community.14
            
            XIX. THE SHORT SAWMILL
            
            The Short sash sawmill was located on Flat Fock at or near the present (1936) Shady Bend Camp, a few
                    miles above Saint Paul. It was of the usual type. According to 
                        Marion
                     Owen, aged 88, "it was washed away in the New Year's
                    ‘freshet’ in 1848", so I have heard in early times."
            XX — XXI. THE PAUL MILLS.
            The Paul Mills included the Old Paul Mill and the John 
                  
                     14 The flour was bolted through a fine cloth according to Mrs.
                            Roberts, from whom a part of the historical data relative to the Banta Milt were obtained.
                            She is a daughter of Samuel Shelhorn and a granddaughter of John Shelhorn. Charles Zoller,
                            formerly of 
                                Greensburg
                            , who is living in a residence built on the site of the former miller's
                            house, furnished much of the information presented above, including the dates.
               
                     Paul woolen mill and sawmill. Jonathan Paul was born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     about 1770. His birthplace was Redstone Old Fort, now part of 
                        Brownsville
                    , whither his parents, Michael and Ann Parker Paul had removed from 
                        Germantown
                     in 1776. He was the youngest of a family of seven—Rebecca, Peter, Martha,
                    John, Ruth, Elizabeth and Jonathan. His brother, Col. John Paul was the founder of 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, and a member of the first legislature of Indiana. Jonathan Paul lived in 
                        Greene
                     County, 
                        Ohio
                    , from 1790 to 1819, when he came to Indiana, finally choosing a mill location on Flat
                    Rock. His land patent bears the date of October 10, 1820. He was married in 
                        Kentucky
                     to Eunice Griffin, a niece of his brother Peter's wife.
            His first home was a log cabin in the valley near the old road at the foot of the cemetery. This
                    house burned and another was built on the same spot. The second only served as a temporary dwelling
                    until he could get a brick house built which he had in contemplation. The contract for the building
                    was let to Daniel French, a brickmason and molder, and the result was the present "Old Paul
                    Homestead," which has been slightly modified. It is a large and unpretentious building of
                    the nineteenth century type. After the completion of his home, he set to work to build a mill on
                    Mill Creek.
            Jonathan Paul established this first rude mill on Mill Creek adjacent to the present cemetery, and a
                    short distance above where the later Old Paul Mill stood. This first mill was not much larger than a
                    smoke house. It ground only corn in an old fashioned hand hopper. A few years after Jonathan Paul
                    put his first mill in operation, his son, John Paul built a water-powered-mill a short distance
                    below the old mill. He later built a woolen mill at the confluence of Mill Creek and Flat Rock on
                    the west side of Mill Creek and a dam across Mill Creek. The mill-race can still be seen, though it
                    is badly weathered. He also had a sawmill near the same place, using water power from Flat Rock. The
                    two buildings were connected. It was the original intention to furnish power for these mills by
                    means of water carried through a race extending from the Dripping Springs to this junction. The race
                    was completed but the plan of operation was found to be impractical so it was never used. Portions
                    of the old mill-race may still be traced through Floyds' Woods. It is a matter of curiosity
                    to the people of the town and to many sight-seers. The woolen 
                    mill derived its power from Mill Creek and Flat Rock River was dammed to provide power for the
                    sawmill. The sawmill furnished the building material for the community. In the spring of 1847, both
                    the woolen mill and the sawmill, together with the dams were washed away in a flood.
            Paul rebuilt his father's mill, and this is the one that became known as the Old Paul Mill,
                    which was razed in 1909 for the timber which could be salvaged. It was operated by an overshot
                    water-wheel eighteen feet in diameter. Water freed from the race by the lifting of the water gate,
                    would fall down over the wheel, filling the buckets and causing it to rotate because of the weight.
                    The mill was equipped with French buhrs. This rebuilt grist-mill was three stories high and forty by
                    fifty feet in plan. It had a capacity of 30 barrels of flour per day of 24 hours. The mill was
                    equipped with two runs of stones driven by an overshot water-wheel eighteen feet in diameter and
                    about four feet wide. Water was taken from Mill Creek and was impounded by a stone dam in the area,
                    now a cultivated field, on either side of the 
                        St. Paul
                    -St. Omer read between the foot of the schoolhouse hill and the bridge over Mill Creek.
                    Traces of this stone dam and raceway leading to the mill site may still be seen. This creek is a
                    tributary of Flat Rock and enters it about half a mile below the mill site.
            The woolen mill was in operation in the Spring of 1865, according to 
                        Marion
                     Owen. He remembered taking axes to John Paul in 1865 who was also a blacksmith, to get
                    them drawn, handled and sharpened. Walter and Schemel were the proprietors at that time. This mill
                    made jeans, flannel and cashmere cloth. It was made into a knitting mill in 1875.
            The original Paul Mill was located at the same place as the mill which was operated by E.L. Floyd in
                    1882. This is the same mill that was salvaged in 1909. The salvaged lumber was used in several of
                    the frame houses built by George Schwartz, a preacher-contractor, during the period from 1909 to
                    1912.
            XXII. THE BAILEY MILL
            
            The Bailey Mill was located on Flat Rock about a mile below 
                        St. Paul
                     in Section 9, Township UN, Range 8E. It was built by Peter John Bailey in 1833 and
                    1834, starting to operate late in the latter year. It was a water-powered mill, the buhrs probably
                    being driven by an overshot water wheel at  first, then by a
                    wooden tub-wheel and later by a turbine. A sawmill was operated in conjunction with the grist-mill.
                    Erwin W. Madison assisted Mr. Bailey for many years in the capacity of miller until he went to war
                    in 1863.
            In 1868, the Bailey Brothers (Nicholas, John and Peter) came into control of the mill. They built a
                    new masonry dam that year. The mill building was fifty by fifty feet and five stories high. It was
                    fitted with four runs of five-foot stones and had a capacity of fifty barrels of flour in
                    twenty-four hours. The machinery was propelled by an improved turbine after the new management
                    assumed control.
            The building was made of yellow poplar and stone. It was supported by stone piers in the river and by
                    the stone banks of the river. These piers held the building up through many disastrous floods.
                    However, the flood of March 28, 1898, was too severe and the mill was lost in its entirety, with the
                    2,500 bushels of grain stored in it. Christopher (Chris) Bickhart was the owner and operator at the
                    time of the flood, hence the name Bickhart Mill is used by some.
            At that time there was sentiment in favor of rebuilding the mill and public subscription amounting to
                    $3,500 were pledged. The mill was rebuilt by Bickhart in smaller form and powered by a
                    gas engine only.15 It was later dismantled and removed to 
                        Henry County
                    .
            XXIII. THE ISAAC NEWTON MILLS
            
            The first Newton mill was built in 1834 as a water-powered sash sawmill on the Isaac Newton farm in
                    the edge of Waldron on 
                        Conn
                    's Creek, a tributary of Flat Rock. A grist-mill was added a little later. A
                    set of four-foot native stone buhrs was driven by an overshot water-wheel under approximately an
                    eight-foot head of water. Still later, woodworking equipment was added and turned bedsteads, lath
                    and wooden bowls were manufactured. This mill was operated by water power only, no standby steam or
                    gasoline engine ever having been added.16
            
            
               
                  15 Van P. Bailey, a grandson of Peter John Bailey, states that the buhrs
                        were made in sections of flint and stone and bound with iron. These might have been either
                        French or English buhrs, although the former were more common through this section of the state.
                        The earlier water-wheels were the four-bladed tub-wheels with complete wooden construction
                        including the gearing. The writer remembers "going to Mill" with his father to
                        the rebuilt mill operated by Bickhart.
               
                  16 These mills were abandoned about 1870 and dismantled and razed a few
                        years later, according to Lucy Stanisfer, a daughter of Mr. Newton.
            
            
            XXIV. THE HAYMOND MILL
            
            The Haymond Mill was located on the farm of the same name, about a mile down stream from Waldron on 
                        Conn
                    's Creek, a tributary of Flat Rock. It was built in 1856. It was both a
                    grist-mill and sash sawmill driven by a turbine under a 6 to 8-foot head of water. The stone buhrs
                    were three feet in diameter and are now at the Dr. Ray Haymond cottage north of Waldron. The mill
                    was torn down 30 years ago (1906), according to George Haymond of Waldron, a son of James C.
                    Haymond. It was probably abandoned several years earlier than this date.
            XXV. THE COPELAND MILL
            
            Alexander Copeland moved to a farm in the NW quarter of Section 22, Township UN, Range 7E, on the
                    north side of Flat Rock River and about a mile downstream from 
                        Geneva
                    , in 1846.
            Soon afterward he built a log dam across the river, a sash sawmill on the north side, a short mill
                    race and a grist and flour mill on the south side.
            In 1868, the race was extended down the river and a three story brick mill was built. It was equipped
                    with 2 sets of stone buhrs, probably French, for grinding flour, meal and feed.
            After his death in 1879, his two sons-in-law, Edward and Romolus Charles, served the farmers for
                    miles around until the mill was bought and remodeled into a roller mill in the fall of 1912 by
                    William R. Holland. The mill is, therefore, sometimes called the Charles Mill, and, in recent years,
                    the Holland Mill.
            The mill was sold to C.C. Shipp in 1918. It was then leased to a man named Stewart two years and was
                    dismantled about 1920. The brick mill building is still standing but the stone-filled timber
                    crib-dam was washed out in the ice jam and flood of March, 1936. This mill was last powered by a
                    standard cast-iron turbine, operating under approximately a twelve-foot head.
            XXVI. THE CAVE MILL
            
            This grist-mill was built about 1830 by William Bone, grandfather of Thomas Bone, Jr., who lives in
                    the Cave neighborhood, north of Hope. William Bone operated the mill  until about 1850. It was next operated by Alfred Bone, a son of William
                    Bone, until about 1870 or 1872. Then it was purchased by Leander Nelson.17 Mr.
                    Nelson operated the mill for fifteen or twenty years as a buhr grist-mill. After that time he added
                    the long-system roller-process, and took a partner. He also repaired the mill building and added
                    other machinery, such as corn shellers and wheat cleaners, which modernized the mill greatly. This
                    work was done in the early nineties, probably about 1892. The mill was sold to Andrew (Andy) 
                        Monroe
                     about this time. The roller process machinery was further modernized about 1900, by Mr.
                    Monroe. 
                        Monroe
                     sold the mill to C. C. Shipp, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , about 1929. Mr. Shipp razed the mill. During the last few years of its operation, the
                    mill ground feed and made graham flour and corn meal, the roller process not being in use since
                        1921.18
            
            The dam has a height of about nine feet, making the effective operating head of the water nearly ten
                    feet. In its early days, it was a buhr mill having two sets of buhrs, one for flour and one for corn
                    meal. The mill was three stories high and of frame construction. The "grinding
                    floor" of the building was the second, the side-hill basement of the mill being the first
                    story. The approach to the mill was on the side away from the stream, where there was a gravel road.
                    Grain was hoisted by means of a rope and pulley from this level to the second story or
                    grinding-floor.
            Interesting information found in a history of 
                        Shelby
                     County, indicates that "church services of the Cave Mill Christian Church were
                    held here as early as 1885," implying that the mill was used as a place of worship,
                    possibly while the church building was being repaired or rebuilt.
            The above quotation from a history of 
                        Shelby
                     County evidently refers to the mill which preceded Girton's Mill, as the
                    location is the same. The mill mentioned above was evidently the first in the county, according to
                    the 
                  
                            Shelby
                         County Atlas (1885).
            
               
                  17 Leander Nelson's wife was a cousin of the mother of Albert
                        Sanders. The latter is an old mill operator of 
                            Milford
                         on Clifty Creek, seventy-five years of age. Mr. Sanders furnished quite a bit of
                        the history and description of the Cave Mill.
               
                  18 The Cave Mill was powered by two cast-iron turbines, in later years,
                        according to Mr. Sanders. John Rutherford helped to break up the wheels for scrap iron and told
                        Mr. Sanders recently that they were of cast-iron. Evidently the earlier wheels were of the
                        all-wooden type of horizontal turbine, as this is the type of wheel remembered by Thomas Bone,
                        Jr.
            
            
            XXVIII. THE GIRTON GRIST-MILL
            
            
                    In the summer of 1823, a writ of ad quod damnum was procured by Isaac Drake,
                        but records show that a mill had been constructed and was in operation sometime previous to the
                        procurement of the writ. This mill was located on the NE Quarter of Section 25, Township UN,
                        Range 6E, on Flat Rock River.
                
            The above quotation from a history of 
                        Shelby
                     County evidently refers to the mill which preceded Girton's Mill, as the
                    location is the same. The mill mentioned above was evidently the first in the county, according to
                    the 
                  
                            Shelby
                         County Atlas (1885).
            The Girton Grist and Flouring Mill was built in 1854 on the Girton farm about two and one-half miles
                    east and north of the village of Flat Rock. It was a brick mill equipped with several runs of large
                    stone buhrs driven by an overshot water wheel. It was built by Jacob Girton and operated by him and
                    his son, Christopher Girton. After Jacob Girton's death, his son operated it until it was
                    abandoned in 1875.
            Lewis M. Blades, a son-in-law of Christopher Girton, remembers the appearance of the mill well. It
                    was one of the largest in the community and was in excellent condition, both structurally and
                    mechanically, when it was torn down in 1885. It was abandoned principally because of a mistake in
                    the location of the dam. It seems that the dam was so located that it diverted the heavier silt and
                    pebbles carried by Flat Rock in the comparatively sluggish portion of its length which is near its
                    mouth. This diversion naturally caused the mill race to silt badly so that it eventually became
                    necessary to clean it annually. As it was approximately a mile in length, it can be readily inferred
                    that the cost of cleaning the race took most of the profits from the operation of the mill. The law
                    of economics did the inevitable—closed the mill.
            On Christmas morning, 1880, Christopher Girton's residence burned. It stood on the present
                    site of the Lewis M. Blades home in Flat Rock. Girton and his family lived in 
                        Shelbyville
                     and Flat Rock during the next five years. In 1885, he decided to build a home in Flat
                    Rock on the site of his former home.
            Accordingly, he tore down the abandoned mill and used as much of the salvaged material as possible in
                    the construction of this home. The brick used on the inside wall of the beautiful old brick
                    residence came from the mill. All the window frames were sawed from walnut timbers from the
                    mill's interior framing. The front doors which are of walnut outside  and oak inside were likewise fashioned from the mill timbers. In like
                    manner, the stair posts and railing and the wood finishings for several rooms, were sawed from mill
                    timbers. These timbers were taken to 
                        Columbus
                     for the milling necessary before they could be used. The house has stone window sills
                    throughout, which were taken from the mill.
            Christopher Girton operated the mill during the Civil War and is said to have cleared $100
                    a day. The mill never stopped during that period—was operated day and night, seven days a
                    week, except when Mr. Girton and his miller had a political quarrel. The miller was a staunch
                    Republican and Mr. Girton an equally staunch Democrat. The quarrel started one Friday, when one
                    called the other political names, etc., and lasted until Sunday morning when they decided to drop
                    politics from their work. This miller, incidentally, was well paid, receiving $7.00 per
                    day.
            Jacob Girton also had a sash-type saw-mill located a quarter of a mile directly west of his
                    grist-mill. It was driven by water-power—probably by a breast wheel. It was leased to a
                    man named Clayton and was called the Clayton Sawmill. It? vas also abandoned in 1875 and probably
                    for the same reason as the grist mill, since it no doubt received water from the same race.
            
                    XXVIII. THE RAINS-CRANE
                            MILLS
               
                    As early as 1823, Mr. Isaac Rains founded a rude mill on Flat Rock, six miles north of 
                            Columbus
                        , at a point afterwards known as Corman Town. At that time there was an island in
                        the river and between it and the east bank there was a narrow channel through which the water
                        ran with much force and velocity. Taking two logs of suitable size, he placed one on the island
                        and the other on the bank parallel to the first and the current, notching them to make bearings
                        for a wooden shaft, which was laid from bank to bank at right angles to the stream and resting
                        in the notches made in the logs. To this shaft he attached flights or paddles reaching down into
                        the water and moved by its flow. Simple wooden gear connected this flood-wheel with a hand mill
                        [previously mentioned as being the first in the county]. Rude as this mill was in its
                        construction, it did a great amount of work and saved the neighboring settlers many a tiresome
                        trip. Later it was replaced by better appliances; the property fell into the hands of the Crane
                        family, who further improved it, adding a saw mill and wood-working machinery.19
               
                
            
               
                        
                     19
                            History of
                            
                                Bartholomew
                            
                            County (1888). Mr. Albert Sanders of 
                                Milford
                             visited a mill on Flat Rock many years ago, located about three miles east and
                            about three miles south of Tayloraville. From the account above, this is the later structure
                            built on the same site. Mr. Sanders stated to the writer that the mill observed by him was
                            driven by a wooden turbine-wheel operating under an eight or nine-foot head. Two runs of
                            stone were in use, one for corn and one for wheat. The building was two stories high and had
                            the bolting devices in the upper story.
                        Information statins that Joel A. Crane's Woolen, Grist and Saw mills were located on
                            Flat Rock in 
                                Bartholomew
                             County has been found by Mrs. A. G. Newsom of 
                                Columbus
                            .
                    
            
            
            XXIX. THE PATTERSON-WHITESIDES MILL
            In 1835, Isaac Patterson built a custom flouring mill on Flat Rock, just north of the old 
                        Madison
                     road-bed, near 
                        Columbus
                    . The location was a good one and the mill commanded a large trade, but the foundation
                    of the dam being sandy, it was constantly giving way and causing trouble and expense. The property
                    changed hands once or twice and finally went down, about 1847, probably owing to the want of water
                    power. In 1847–1848, Messrs. Banfill and Griffith extended the old millrace to the south
                    side of the town stopping at a point within one hundred yards of the bed of Driftwood Creek. Here
                    they erected a flouring mill fitted for merchant and custom work. The firm sold the property to
                    Capt. Whitesides, who continued to run the mill until the fall of 1858, when it was destroyed by
                    fire. A temporary custom mill was kept up for a few years afterwards at this point, when the
                    water-power was transferred to William Carter, who founded the Hydraulic Woolen Mills near the site
                    of the old mill. The destruction of the Whitesides Mill closed the water mill era in the immediate
                    vicinity of 
                        Columbus
                    .20
            
            
               
                        
                     20 In 1831, Mr. Thomas Cox built a mill run by water power on Flat Rock.
                            In 1835 he built a grist mill near 
                                Columbus
                            . This mill engaged a large trade for fifteen years or more, till other mills,
                            more modern and more easy of access, drew off its patronage, when it was abandoned, and the
                            water gradually shifted its course till the old mill was left some two hundred yards to the
                            west of the river. There is no way of definitely determining; whether this mill, mentioned
                            in another history of 
                                Bartholomew
                             County, is a duplicate of the Whitesides Mill, or is a different mill operated
                            in another locality.
                        Mrs. Newsome also found a reference to Chase's Mill on Flat Rock near the old Jacoby
                            Ford, afterwards Highfield Bridge Ford. This mill was locatedd about 2 1/2 miles north of 
                                Columbus
                            . It was washed away and never rebuilt. Whether these mills were the same as
                            others mentioned above, under either earlier or later ownership, is not known.
                    
            
         
         
         
            New Indiana Archival Documents
            HARVEY WISH
            
            During the past seven months, the Federal Archives Survey of Ilinois, directed by Dr. Russell H.
                    Anderson, and sponsored jointly by the National Archives and the Works Progress Administration, has
                    been preparing a detailed inventory of historical materials located in the federal depositories of
                    the state.1 This task has included in many instances the service of rescuing
                    historical documents from certain destruction. Most striking of the Survey's discoveries
                    has been a vast amount of Indiana letters and dispatches—some 5887
                    items—pertaining to the administrations of Indiana Governors from James Whitcomb to
                    Oliver Perry Morton. The bulk of this material represents Morton's official gubernatorial
                    correspondence.
            This material was found interspersed with Federal court records in some twenty burlap scrap-bags on
                    the second floor of the old 
                        United States
                     Court House Building at Clark and Adams Streets, 
                        Chicago
                    . Here the records had been stored for at least a year. Previously they were kept in a
                    large case under the building's dome and undoubtedly subjected to serious inroads by stamp
                    collectors, souvenir hunters, and more common types of vandals. Despite the effects of time and
                    neglect, the Indiana material is in surprisingly good condition. In only a few instances are the
                    letters or dispatches illegible or mutilated, but it is evident that the collection is far from
                    complete. Several hypotheses have been advanced as to the reason for Indiana material being found in 
                        Chicago
                    , but the explanations are not convincing. The presence of certain other documents found
                    together with the Indiana material suggests that the latter was taken to 
                        Chicago
                     some time shortly after the World's Fair in 1893. As for the question of
                    authenticity, no elaborate tests of internal or external criticism are required to establish this
                    point even for the most meticulous historian.
            The collection, as it will be noted, falls within the years 1840–1866, almost exclusively,
                    although a few documents belong to an earlier period. Such material represents the files of 
                  
                     1 Dr. Harvey Wish was for more than a half year associated as
                            Assistant Regional Director with Dr. Russell H. Anderson, Regional Director for 
                                Illinois
                             of the Survey of Federal Archives.
               
                     seven governors of Indiana in varying proportions. Beyond the
                    subject-matter that is of local value appears much that is of prime national interest. The American
                    historian, for example, needs no introduction to the significant role of Governor Morton in helping
                    to maintain the iron wedge that finally crushed the Confederacy. An attempt to suggest some of the
                    possibilities for new writings is made in the inventory here presented.
            I. SPECIAL POLITICAL MATERIAL
            This collection of sixty-seven letters contains thirty-seven items dealing with the defeatist
                    movement along the 
                        Ohio
                     River for the years 1863–4. Among Morton's chief tasks was that of
                    keeping Indiana with its large southern elements loyal to the Union; next in importance was the
                    problem of restraining the activities of 
                        Kentucky
                     secessionists under the inspiration of Governor Beriah Magoffin. An intricate trade in
                    contrabrand across the border carried on by small bands of southern sympathizers, demanded constant
                    surveillance. Defeatist organizations like the Knights of the Golden Circle constituted a threat to
                    the Union cause.
            Most of the letters in this unit contain descriptions of pro-southern activities in the state and are
                    addressed to Governor Morton by citizens of southern Indiana. Excerpts from a letter written by
                    James D. Hosea of Scott County are vividly illustrative: 
                        I was at Auston and I noticed that there was a meeting in that place…. I found
                            that it was to be in the School house. I then went and got into a dark corner so that I was
                            not noticed. Then the all com in and seeted themselves 54 in No. the then elected there
                            cheareman, his Sir name was Sirrup, Editor and a lawyer. He then sd that he would after
                            making of a few remarks proseed to read the rules….
                        Article 1st—We will not go nor assist nor pay any more to soport the government
                            against the south.
                        Sect 2nd—We will not Soport any woman nor children of any man who has gon, or may
                            go to fight against the People of the South
                        Sect 3—We will protect any man who may leve the federal armey from being taken
                            back to the U.S. Service.
                        The cheareman Mr. Sirrup sd that there order was one million strong….
                    
            
            This confidential report contains references to the names of other eye-witnesses. Another letter,
                    written by James Guthrie, Principal of the Union Christian College [Merom, Indiana] gives these
                    details:
            
            
                    Let me assure you that a government Reporter or a company of troops is absolutely
                            needed there [
                            Sullivan County
                        ]…. The fiends [pro-southern faction] destroyed Rev. John
                        Phillips' Mill so as to prevent his sawing and then threatened his life and thus drove
                        a useful Christian minister from the county. Four of them by night three weeks since came to the
                        house of a respected old farmer [Mr. Widener], tried to force passage into his house, threatened
                        to kill him and were only deterred from outrages by his boldly confronting them with a gun. You
                        say, Why do we permit it? Because that neighborhood now numbers more than ten devils to one
                        honest man. They are positively organized and armed; they have marked for death about fifteen
                        Union men.
                
            Two loyal citizens of 
                        Salem
                    , evidently alarmed by "copperhead" activities, wrote strong letters
                    of protest to Governor Morton. One asked: "Will we be justified by law if we use the rope?
                    May we shoot them or will you have them arrested?"
            Similar reports of subversive actions are written from: North 
                        Salem
                    , Hendricks County; Medora, Jackson County; 
                  Cannelton, Perry County; Marion, Grant County; Greenfield, Hancock County; Terre Haute, Vigo
                    County
               ; Stips Hill, 
                        Franklin County
                    ; Ossian, 
                  Wells County; Jeffersonville, Clark County;
                            Fulton, Fulton
               
                    County; 
                  La Porte, La Porte
                            County
               ; and from 
                        Jefferson County
                    . A few letters refer to defeatist activities in 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    . A manuscript copy of a resolution passed by the Union League of 
                        Indianapolis
                     on August 23, 1864, declares the existence of a "deep and damnable conspiracy
                    against the National and State Governments" and the intention of the League to aid
                    "in crushing the rebels in our midst."
            The assassination of Lincoln gave occasion for rejoicing to many "copperheads" as
                    is clear from a number of letters protesting against this demonstration of joy in southern Indiana.
                    Many feared that the assassin's bullet awaited Governor Morton whose active pro-Union
                    policy exposed him to considerable danger. This feeling became pronounced during the trial of Dr.
                    William Bowles, L. P. Milligan, and Stephen Horsey, accused of a conspiracy against the Union cause.
                    One anonymous letter, written from 
                  Franklin, Kentucky
               , to Morton on May 10, 1865, contains an
                    open threat of assassination: 
                        I understand that there is 3 men to be swung on [in] this month. Sir if Mr. Milligan is one
                            of the victims you shall fall in the same fate that Mr. Lincoln did. Now remark those
                            words…. Milligan is of the Anglow Saxton race, he has sworn Allegance to protect
                            the Union before you Ever did; he must not be a victim to the Lover of the God damn African.
                            Remember what I say and get out of the way….
                    
            
            
            Another citizen (writing from 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , at this time), declared that while he
                    was a passenger on the Great Western Railroad he had overheard a plot to assassinate Morton in the
                    event that the trio were hanged. He warned the governor to take extreme measures of precaution.
            Some of the "copperheads" found the business of kidnapping Negroes a lucrative
                    wartime industry. Mr. N. Field of 
                        Jeffersonville
                     took occasion to write several letters protesting against this situation during the
                    spring of 1863: 
                        He [Benjamin Ray] and his father have become regular and professional bloodhounds or Negro
                            catchers. They spend their time prowling about the houses of Negroes and watching the depot.
                            Free Negroes travelling through the state to 
                                Ohio
                             as well as contrabands who have deserted from the Rebel armies while in 
                                Kentucky
                             on their way to 
                                Canada
                            , are arrested by these men and their associates here, taken across the river
                            and lodged in the 
                                Louisville
                             jail and after being imprisoned for weeks are sold for want of a claimant.
                        There are some 10 or 15 men in this city devoted to this nefarious business. They pay no
                            regard whatever to law or to humanity in their daily and nightly kidnappings.
                    
            
            A similar letter contains a newspaper clipping regarding an attempted Negro kidnapping in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . Lists of disloyal individuals are frequently appended to these letters. An anonymous
                    letter from 
                        Terre Haute
                     makes several accusations against Daniel W. Voorhees, Congressman from Indiana, and
                    others.
            Contraband trade flourished along the border. Several merchants of Anna wrote to Morton on August 1,
                    1861: 
                        For some time past the 
                                Madison
                             Packets have been bringing Bacon and Mess Pork from Cin'ti [
                                Cincinnati
                            ] to this place and leaving it on the wharfboat where it remains a day or two
                            when the 
                                Louisville
                             boats take it below. And that there is something wrong about it is evident from
                            the fact that it is not shipped direct to its destination. We … are determined
                            that Provissions shall not be carried through our Place to Secessiondom.
                    
            
            A letter of Isaac M. Brown of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , written on August 26, 1861, gives the details of an elaborate system of smuggling
                    which had developed in that area. Traders loading flatboats with produce osstensibly destined for a
                    loyal town would secretly unload their cargo at Smythland, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and from that point transport it over the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Nashville
                     Road to 
                  Memphis, Tennessee
               . The steamer St. Francis
                     was employed to tow such boats up the Cumberland
                        River to a secret place from which the cargo reached 
                        Nashville
                    . Two letters deal with a controversy between Governor Magoffin's Secretary,
                    Thomas B. Monroe, of 
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               , and Morton's agent, William A. Schlater,
                    regarding a shipment of contraband coffee.
            An important subject relating to which there are twenty-seven letters and several pamphlets in the
                    collection is that of the Negro Colonization project for 
                        Liberia
                    . The "all absorbing subject" of the time, according to a letter of
                    June 6,1854, was the attempt of a number of abolitionists to transfer the Negro to that remote
                    African state. Many of the recipients of these philanthropies appear to have been extremely
                    reluctant to leave their homes. This attitude is evident from the following, written to the Reverend
                    J. Mitchell on June 6,1854: 
                        We have about 75 or 80 Negroes in our County [Harrison] but they are all opped to emigrating
                            to 
                                Liberia
                             or in fact anywhere else. Their ideas of that country are very erroneous and
                            they won't be convinced.
                    
            
            An unusually interesting letter from a Negro colonist describes the situation in 
                        Liberia
                    , the problems confronting the newcomer, the wars with the natives, and the details of
                    new settlements. Among the related materials are an issue of the 
                  
                            New York
                         Colonization Journal for January, 1854, a pamphlet of twenty-four pages on
                    "Information about Going to 
                        Liberia
                    " (
                        Washington
                    , 1852), a four-page pamphlet entitled, "Where Shall We Go?", and a
                    map (24 x 36 in.) of the West Coast of Africt, Comprising 
                        Guinea
                     and the British possessions at 
                        Sierra Leone
                    , the Gold Coast, and 
                        Liberia
                     which is based on a map by John Arrowsmith of 1843.
            II. DISPATCHES
            The greater portion of this large unit of dispatches (2,384 items) deals with the efforts of Governor
                    Morton and his agents to equip the troops of Indiana and to direct their daily operations. The most
                    common topics are the problems of feeding, clothing, and recruiting the soldiers from the state;
                    military operations, appointments, finance, hospital affairs. Other tasks of war-time administration
                    also represent a large part of the dispatches. Numerous telegrams reveal the hourly details of such
                    invasions of Indiana soil as those of the Confederate leaders, John Morgan and Kirby Smith. Five
                    telegrams are from Lincoln to Morton regarding certain important military  operations. The Secretary of War, Edwin M. Stanton, is responsible for
                    a fair number of the telegrams which deal with a variety of war problems. Among the names of other
                    notables whose telegrams appear more than once are those of William H, Seward, Ulysses S. Grant, W.
                    T. Sherman, Lew Wallace, George H. Thomas, Robert Dale Owen, John C. Fremont, Simon Cameron, Robert
                    Anderson, Lorenzo Thomas, Don C. Buell, Richard Yates, F. H. Pierpont, H. W. Halleck, W. S.
                    Rosecrans, Schuyler Colfax, John A. McClernand, Salmon P. Chase, Ambrose E. Burnside, Andrew
                    Johnson, Joseph Hooker, and all of Morton's agents as well as the Governor, himself.
            III. MILITARY OPERATIONS
            Although the voluminous nature of military records for the Civil War that have been published would
                    tend to lessen the value of such material, even in manuscrip form, there are a number of interesting
                    letters and other documents relating to military affairs in this unit (1,164 items) which appear to
                    be unique. Several first-hand accounts of important battles such as that of Bull Run give a more
                    intimate picture of the soldier than is afforded by the usual formal report. Details of local
                    guerrilla operations along the border can be obtained from these documents. James H. McNeeley,
                    writing from 
                        Evansville
                     to Morton on June 13, 1864, described the scene on the border: 
                        The general impression here and on the whole border is that serious trouble is brewing in 
                                Kentucky
                            . Society there is in a very feverish state and the whole country up and down
                            the 
                                Ohio
                            , and along the Green River, is full of guerrillas, singly and in small bands.
                            The majority of persons among the white men who have been drafted have joined the
                            guerrillas. The enlistment of Negroes has enraged the rebels and their sympathizers and made
                            them ready for any measure however desperate, when they may deem it safe to resort to
                            violence and retaliation on Union men amongst them and on this side of the River.
                    
            
            The struggle for 
                        Kentucky
                     absorbed much of Morton's attention and his agents kept him informed of
                    political and military developments in that state. During this critical period many requests for
                    military assistance came to Morton from Union officers stationed in 
                        Kentucky
                     and in several instances at least (as is evident from the letters) the aid was given.
            John, Morgan's raid into southern Indiana during the summer of 1862 brought about the
                    statewide organization of  the Legion which was intended to
                    prevent similar invasions. This system gave rise to complaints that the Legion was a failure and
                    inferior to an efficient militia "such as our fathers had."
            A citizen of 
                        Switzerland
                     County on the border, reported that "suspicious looking strangers from 
                        Kentucky
                    " were coming in large numbers through "those neighborhoods most
                    strongly tinctured with disloyalty." He anticipated a concerted effort of
                    "copperheads" to aid another Confederate raid into Indiana.
            Besides the topics indicated there are numerous letters dealing with camp problems, military
                    appointments and removals, recruiting, furloughs, the soldier's vote in the election of
                    1864, etc. A small portion of the material includes the administrations of Governor Joseph A. Wright
                    (12 letters), Governor Ashbel P. Willard (70 letters), Governor Abram A. Hammond (2 letters), and
                    Governor Henry S. Lane (1 letter).
            IV. MILITARY HOSPITALS
            Next to the task of recruiting and other military problems, more of Governor Morton's
                    energies seem to have been devoted to the care of the Indiana troops. Although the dispatches also
                    deal with this topic, it is probable that the letters (410 in number) will be more useful to the
                    historian. Morton's humane efforts in behalf of his soldiers earned for him his reputation
                    as "the Soldier's Friend" but gave the Indiana men an advantage that
                    occasionally created discontent among the soldiers from other less fortunate states. This fact,
                    suggested by several reports of Morton's agents, seems to be supported by a reply of
                    General Grant (over the signature of a subordinate) to Morton's request for an office at
                    Vicksburg for the benefit of Indiana soldiers. It is dated August 5, 1863, and was sent from
                    Grant's headquarters at Vicksburg: 
                        The privilege herein requested cannot be granted. The troops from Indiana, as those from all
                            other states in the 
                                United States
                             service, are cared for under the rules and regulations established by law and
                            proper authority. Nothing looking to the continuance of State Control where no exigency
                            demands it can be countenanced by the Maj.-General commanding; this is particularly to be
                            held as the rule in the Medical Department.
                    
            
            The numerous detailed reports of Morton's agents, particularly those of Isaac W. Montfort,
                    A. Stone, B. P. Tuttle,  R. Bosworth, Frank E. Howe, and W. J.
                    Elliott, are of obvious value as first hand accounts of the social conditions at the front.
            V. FINANCES
            Indiana's state finances, already seriously weakened before Morton's
                    administration, sank to a low ebb with the onset of war conditions and party strife. After the
                    election of 1862, which resulted in the choice of a Democratic majority in the Assembly hostile to a
                    vigorous war policy, the state government was left without appropriations for ordinary expenses due
                    to the factional struggle. To circumvent the Democrats all of the Morton Republicans withdrew from
                    the Legislature leaving that body without a quorum and thus compelled it to adjourn without further
                    legislation, either favorable or hostile to the Governor. The Governor sought revenue from many
                    sources: private bankers, county treasuries, federal appropriations, and revenue derived from
                    profitable arsenal operations. These activities can be followed in some detail through the letters
                    of this unit (297 items) and by the dispatch material. The numerous letters to Morton's
                    Finance Secretary, W. H. H. Terrill, are informative as to payments for munitions, bounties,
                    soldier's compensation or relief, bank loans, and property damages incurred through
                    Morgan's Raid. Many letters of Robert Dale Owen, son of the famous philanthropist, Robert
                    Owen, and a fiscal agent for Morton, are included.
            Accusations of fraud in army contracts were frequent and in many instances well founded. John
                    O'Flanigan of 
                        New York
                     City, in a letter to Morton, described the ingenious system of accounting used to cover
                    fraudulent acts. Morton himself was frequently accused of illicit operations, a charge probably
                    without foundation. Charges were made by the 
                        Huntington
                    
                    Democrat that the governor was profiting financially by transferring
                    Indiana's credit for volunteers in excess of its quota to 
                        Massachusetts
                    . A dozen letters and newspaper clippings give both sides of the case.
            Two printed financial reports of Secretary Terrill for 1864 and 1867 are included in this unit. A
                    small portion of the letters pertain to the administration of Governors Paris C. Dunning (17
                    letters), Wright (17 letters), and Willard (31 letters).
            
            VI. PENITENTIARY AFFAIRS
            Most of the letters in this unit (687 items) deal with requests for pardons, commutation of
                    sentences, remission of fines, prison finances, and warden's reports. The earlier
                    administrations, particularly those of Wright and Willard are best represented. Occasionally the
                    letters are of special historical value. One letter, for example, contains a copy of an indenture
                    bond for a Negro boy under the system prevailing in the states of the Old Northwest which differed
                    very little from chattel slavery. It is written from Livermore on May 23, 1864, and signed by
                    William C. Stevens: 
                        I have hired this day of Mrs. Ann H; Kincheloe, her black boy Henry until Christmas for the
                            sum of Seventy Dollars to be paid on the 25th of December next. I am to clothe and feed and
                            lodge him comfortably.
                    
            
            A letter, written by a prison official, Joseph E. Wheat, to Governor Morton, dated June 12,1864, is a
                    proposal to pardon the state's convicts in a wholesale fashion and equip them for war
                    service and thus "fight the devil with fire." Morton, however, refused to consider
                    the suggestion. A federal pardon proclamation of March 8, 1873, for a train robber bears the
                    signatures of President Ulysses S. Grant and Secretary of State 
                        Hamilton
                     Fish.
            VII. SWAMP LANDS
            This material deals with the problems connected with the administration of Indiana's great
                    swamp area and represents the period from 1840 to 1866. During the administration of Governor Joseph
                    Wright, particularly, a concerted movement was initiated to reclaim the wet lands which were of
                    great potential value. An essay contest was held upon the subject of land reclamation. Some of the
                    essays furnish useful materials for a study of prairie agricultural methods of the mid-century.
                    Among these documents (295 items) are lists of various tracts of land, legal descriptions of swamp
                    land, and land title entries. Many official letters are included of Thomas A. Hendricks, Land
                    Commissioner, later Governor of Indiana, and in his last year Vice-President of the 
                        United States
                     during the early months of 
                        Cleveland
                    's first administration.
            VIII. APPOINTMENTS
            In this group all of the governors from Dunning to Morton (1848–1867) are represented.
                    Recommendation of candidates  for official appointments
                    constitute the bulk of the letters (300 items). Occasionally a controversy over the merits of a
                    candidate brings much of local politics to light. Party services of "deserving"
                    Democrats or Republicans are recounted and recriminations directed against rivals. Possibly a
                    genealogist would find additional material of value here in the identification of local figures
                    which is afforded by this type of correspondence.
            IX. PROCLAMATIONS, BROADSIDES AND OTHER DOCUMENTS
            Although much of this unit (74 items) consists of such formal material as Thanksgiving Proclamations
                    issued by various governors, there are several manuscript copies of secession ordinances from 
                        Georgia
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                    . 
                        Georgia
                    's Ordinance of Secession is signed by Secretary A. R. Lamar. The broadsides,
                    such as the one for bounty claims, are interesting, but few.
            X. GENERAL MATERIAL
            Unclassified items, some of historical utility, are filed in this unit (155 items). Many letters of
                    1852 deal with the proposed reception in 
                        Indianapolis
                     of Louis Kossuth, Magyar patriot. One of the telegrams is from Kossuth himself. A
                    number of letters deal with legislative matters and the Morton project of encouraging white
                    immigrants to Indiana.2
            
            
               
                  2The writer has attempted to reduce the documents in this collection of
                        Indiana material to a chronological arrangement within each major division. Some units are in
                        monthly sections (e.g. dispatches); others are in semi-annual divisions (e.g. military and
                        military hospital letters). Further sub-division, would require a knowledge of the ultimate
                        disposition of the material and the system adopted by the permanent depository. This information
                        was not available at the time of writing. A more detailed inventory of the collection has been
                        prepared for the use of the archivist.
            
         
         
         
            
               
                        Jennings County
                     in the Frontier Period
            ALICE BUNDY
            
            The early settlers in 
                        Jennings County
                     were a part of a moving stream of emigrants that followed the westward trending trails
                    that joined to form the Wilderness Road. Treking along this road, they passed through 
                        Cumberland Gap
                    , a natural pass in the Cumberland.1 Following branch roads and
                    trails, they found their way across 
                        Kentucky
                     and reached either the frontier in 
                        Clark County
                    , by crossing the 
                        Ohio
                     River at 
                        Louisville
                    , or, by crossing the 
                        Ohio
                     River at 
                        Madison
                    , then a flourishing town of sixty or seventy small newly-erected houses and a
                    Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank.2 The New, Vawter, Deputy, and
                    other families reached 
                        Madison
                     by descending the 
                        Kentucky
                    -
                        Ohio
                     River in either flatboats or pirogues. Passing through 
                        Clark County
                     or 
                        Jefferson County
                    , these pioneers made settlements along the streams, advancing the frontier into the
                    territory now included in 
                        Jennings County
                    . "The bulges of the outline of settlements or of the frontier have almost
                    always been along the courses of rivers".3
            
            The first of these daring, vigorous pioneers to enter the territory now included in 
                        Jennings County
                     was Solomon Deputy, who, in 1810, came to live in a blockhouse on the west side of
                    Coffee Creek in what was then 
                        Clark County
                    . This station, or blockhouse, was guarded by a group of light-horse cavalrymen, who
                    included in their territory Abbott's Blockhouse, on the 
                        Ohio
                     River a few miles above the mouth of Fourteen-Mile Creek, and the Lewis Station on
                    Neil's River south of the present site of 
                        Paris
                    . In the blockhouse on Coffee Creek, Josiah Deputy was born. He is said to have been the
                    first white child born in the territory now included in 
                        Jennings County
                    , a tradition that is strengthened by an inscription on his gravestone. In 1814 John
                    Latten came into the territory, chose a goodly site for a settlement and built a cabin on Graham
                    Creek four miles north of the present site of the town 
                        Paris
                    . The next year, Col. John Vawter and William McClure purchased a tract of land at the
                    junction of the North Fork and the South Fork of the Muscatatuck Creek where they built cabins and
                    laid out the town of Vernon. The 
                  
                     1 Ellen Churchill Semple, American History and Its
                                Geographic Conditions (
                                New York
                            . 1908), 67.
                  
                     2
                            The Western Gazetteer, or Emigrant's Directory (
                                Auburn
                            , N.Y., 1817), 61–62.
                  
                     3 Semple, American History and It's Geographic
                                Conditions, 151.
               
                     families of Akilles Vawter, John Branham, Henry St. Glair,
                    James Williams and Col. Vawter formed the first group of settlers occupying some of the first lots
                    sold in Vernon. In the spring of 1816, Samuel 
                        Campbell
                    , William Prather, Joseph Pool and Miles Bundy built cabins on the South Fork of the
                    Muscatatuck. William Pagett, Morris Baker, Alexander Lewis and George Stribbling selected a
                    favorable spot for a settlement on the North Fork of the Muscatatuck Creek from one to two miles
                    east of Vernon. A settlement was formed along Sand Creek (1816–1817) by James Shields,
                    Adam Keller, Chauncy 
                        Butler
                    , Leonard Cutler, Justin Rich, the Vankirk-wells, Allan Cheever, William Clapp, and
                    Nicholas Amick. On the Muscatatuck, five or six miles southwest of Vernon, Basil Meek found, in
                    1817, a promising location for a settlement and was joined by James Kellam, Noah Sullivan, Jacob
                    McMurry, John Boner, Thomas Richey, R. Marvin, and James Green. In 1816–1817 Praly Baker,
                    Johnathan Davis and Dr. Eastman built homes on the banks of Six-Mile Creek, six miles west of
                    Vernon. The Elliotts (Robert, David, John and Joseph), William Patterson, Nathaniel and Thomas
                    Davis, Ephriam Glasco, George Stribbling and Jacob 
                        Brown
                     "raised" cabins in the eastern part of the county on the Muscatatuck.
                    James Needam chose a desirable location for his cabin near the confluence of Little Graham and Big
                    Graham. James Hughes and William Calicott built their cabins near Graham Creek a few miles below the
                    junction of the two forks of that stream.
            There was a steady influx of these adventurous and sturdy pioneers but in some years they came in
                    greater numbers. In one year (1816–1817), a hundred families were domiciled in groups of
                    cabins located at favorable sites on the banks of the streams of the county exemplifying the fact
                    that "Streams present the lines of least resistance to the incoming colonist, and afterward
                    lend themselves to his economic need".4 These early pioneers
                    established the early farms and homes and by 1840 the County was rapidly being filled by land-hungry
                    families. A group of New Englanders joined the settlements in the vicinity of Hayden in 1830. About
                    the same time a congregation of Roman Catholics established a settlement at what is now known as St.
                    Ann's. During the early fifties, canvas-covered 
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 152.
               
                     wagons loaded with household goods journeyed westward from
                    southwestern 
                        Ohio
                     into the County. This group of Quakers purchased small improved farms for permanent
                    homes in the vicinity of the present site of Butlerville. A considerable number of Germans came
                    directly to the southwestern part of the county from the Fatherland in the late forties or early
                    fifties. When the slavery question was warmly agitated in certain sections of the South, a few
                    "refuges" sought homes among the people of the County.
            When the Federal Census was taken in 1820 under the direction of John Vawter, marshall of the
                    district of Indiana, the population of 
                        Jennings County
                     was said to be 2,000.5 During the next decade, the increase was 122
                    per cent, the greatest in the history of the County.6 By 1850, 12,095 persons
                    were living in the County. There were thirteen grist-mills located at water-sites and operated by
                    water-power. Twenty-nine sawmills, seven of which were "steam mills," were owned
                    and "run" by farmer-lumbermen. Eighteen stores supplied the inhabitants with
                    general merchandise. Two drugstores bought roots and sold Smith's Ague Tonic, quinine,
                    other drugs, madder and indigo. Three warehouses had been built. Five lawyers had each put out his
                    "shingle" and twelve physicians had selected this county as a place in which to
                    practice their profession.7
            
            What factors influenced this streaming tide of population to seek homes in the virgin forest of 
                        Jennings County
                    ? Why did these pioneers migrate from a settled section, and travel hundreds of miles
                    into the wilderness where there was only an occasional settlement, to dwell in the Redman's
                    land where great hardships must be endured and threatening dangers must be faced?
            For the most part, the human stream that advanced into the County was of the non-slaveholding
                    democratic element from 
                        North Carolina
                     and 
                        Virginia
                    . Cotton planting and slave holding had advanced from the region of the tidewater into
                    the interior counties of 
                        North Carolina
                     where the forested lands were waiting to be cleared. This forced the small farmers who
                    were engaged in raising livestock and grain, either to begin a more specialized type of farming and
                    become cotton 
                  
                     5
                            
                                United States
                             Census of 1820.
                  
                     6 Census of 1850.
                  
                     7
                            Gazetteer of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1850), 275.
               
                     growers and slaveholders, or to sell their farms and seek
                    another location. This they were tempted to do because of good prices. Many of these farmers were
                    Quakers or Baptists, who did not believe in slavery, and their success in general farming encouraged
                    them to continue that type of farming. Many upland farmers realized that they had not accumulated
                    sufficient capital to compete with the large-scale cotton or tobacco growers from the tidewater
                    region, and that the legislative power was in the hands of the planter class.8
                    Many of the early pioneers of 
                        Jennings County
                     belonged to that exodus which passed westward from the uplands of 
                        North Carolina
                    .
            At the time of the opening of the lands beyond the Alleghanies, chronicland hunger prevailed among
                    men of older areas. Land hunger stimulated men of pioneer days to ride on packhorses or trudge for
                    several hundred miles through forests in which there was danger of Indian attacks; to journey
                    through all kinds of weather without any assurance of shelter for the night or from storms; to cross
                    swollen streams at fords which might never have been traversed before; to penetrate the wilderness
                    many miles from established homes, villages, physicians, or supplies, with no protection except the
                    rifle, meager quantities of gunpowder, a limited number of handmade bullets, and a few axes.
            The Federal government had made various treaties with the Indians which insured the pioneer that the
                    Redmen would soon vacate the forests of southern Indiana and seek homes in the vast unsettled West.
                    Governor William Henry Harrison met the Indian chiefs of the tribes occupying the southern part of
                    Indiana Territory at Grouseland, his estate at 
                        Vincennes
                    . A treaty (1804) was made in which the Indians ceded to the Federal government a tract
                    of land known as the "Grouseland Purchase".9 In October, 1818,
                    the 
                        Delaware
                     and Miami tribes met Jonathan Jennings, Lewis Cass, and Benjamin Parks, who represented
                    the national government, at St. Mary's, 
                        Ohio
                    . A treaty was made according to which the Federal Government acquired a tract of land,
                    known as the "New Purchase," lying north of the "Grouseland
                    Purchase" and the tribes agreed to give possession in 1821.10 The 
                        Jennings County
                    
                    
                  
                     8 Frederick J. Turner The Rise of the New West (vol.
                            XIV of The Ameircan Nation, edited by A. B. Hart, 
                                New York
                            . 1906), 54.
                  
                     9 Homer J. Webster, William Henry Harrison's
                                Administration of Indiana Territory (Indiana Historical Society Publications. IV, No. 3, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . 1907), 258.
                  
                     10 Jacob P. Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1910), I, 4.
               
                     pioneer's assurance of safety from attacks by the
                    Indians was increased, for the tribes had given up all claim to the lands lying in the area of the
                    New Purchase. The defeat of the Indians at the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     on November 7, 1811, by the valiant backwoodsmen under the command of General Harrison,
                    was followed by the War of 1812 during which the men on the frontier were assured that the power of
                    the Indians in the Old Northwest was broken and that the moving of the tribes to the lands lying to
                    the west was inevitable.
            Geographic conditions made the land more promising to the moving throng and, in truth, was a potent
                    and controlling factor in the formation of the settlements. The Muscatatuck and its tributaries
                    pointed out the course of the moving throng northward from the 
                        Ohio
                     River, and promised a possible means of shipping. The main parallel streams directed
                    the course of the colonist northward while the lateral streams, whose head waters mingled, offered
                    easy pathways across the narrow sections between the main streams. The natural resources and
                    agreeable climate attracted the home seekers. The new land was fertile, with good natural drainage
                    and heavy forests. An abundance of limestone could be obtained in the vicinty. 
                        Clay
                     for brick abounded, and springs of cool pure water bubbled up at the base of the
                    slopes. Along these streams many millsites awaited development.
            Land was offered by the federal government on such easy terms that a man with a small capital could
                    purchase and equip a farm. It is estimated that a farm containing eighty acres, two horses, two or
                    three cows, a few hogs and sheep, and farm tools of that time, would cost the purchaser about four
                    hundred dollars.11 Furthermore, Congress had established a land office for the
                    disposal of public lands at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , only two day's journey through the pioneer settlements for the investors in
                    the public lands of 
                        Jennings County
                    . Literature, advertising cheap lands and advising young men to seek their fortunes in
                    the West, was distributed to some extent. The Western Gazetteer, or Emigrant's
                        Directory, published in 1817, states that "farms containing a log house and
                    fifteen or twenty acres of cleared land would sell as high as eight or ten dollars an acre. In some
                    instances necessities or the rambling disposition of the inhabitants induced them to dispose of
                        
                  
                     11 Turner, New West, 87.
               
                     their plantations [farms] at a trifling advance upon the
                    original price".12
            
            The article of the Ordinance of 1787 which provided that "There shall be neither slavery nor
                    involuntary servitude in the territory, otherwise than in punishment for crime whereof the party
                    shall have been duly convicted," helped to determine that the Northwest Territory should be
                    free. The State Constitution, framed at Corydon, June 10–19, 1816, prohibited the
                    establishment of slavery in Indiana. 
                        Jennings County
                    , lying in free territory, attracted the non-slaveholding element of the
                    westward-streaming tide of emigrants. Among these families were the Calicotts, Shorts, Edwardses,
                    Hicklins, Jacksons and Andersons.
            Clark's men received warrants for land in the Clark Grant and were building homes there when
                    the first colonists came to the area now 
                        Jennings County
                    . Many soldiers west of the Appalachian Highlands rendered service in the War of 1812 in
                    the unsettled west. No doubt, these brave men and daring adventurers reported to relatives and
                    friends that southern Indiana was a good region for settlement and their advice probably exercised a
                    potent influence in advancing the frontier into 
                        Jennings County
                    . Among these frontiersmen were the Pool brothers. Benjamin Pool was one of the soldiers
                    directed to scatter the campfires at the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . When the Indians' bullets began to rain on the figures around the fire, he
                    with others sought shelter in the darkness. Thomas Pool migrated to Clark's Grant in 1811,
                    and enlisted at 
                  Charleston, Clark County
               , where he served in the Indiana Militia during the War of
                    1812. Thomas Storey enlisted at 
                  Georgetown, Kentucky
               , and served as a private in the 
                        Kentucky
                     militia. He was in the battle of Ft. Meigs and in the engagement known as
                    "Dudley's Defeat." Reverend William T. Scott enlisted in
                            
                  Franklin County, Kentucky
               , and served as a private in the War of 1812 for three months
                    and five days.13 Lewis Wagner and William Johnson, who gave their services in
                    the War of 1812, became pioneers in 
                        Jennings County
                    .
            The development of navigation on the 
                        Ohio
                    -
                        Mississippi
                     gave an outlet to markets. In 1817 about twenty barges, each with a capacity of one
                    hundred tons, were transporting all the merchandise from 
                        New Orleans
                     to 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    . 
                  
                     12
                            Western Gazetteer, or Emigrant's Directory, 68.
                  
                     13 Information received from Veterans Administration, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., in response to a letter written by the author of this article.
               
                     These barges made the round trip in one year. By January, 1836,
                    over one hundred barges were transporting goods on this route.14 Successful
                    trips of steamboats on the 
                        Ohio
                     River promised speedier and safer means of transportation for the outgoing products and
                    for the meager imports of those living in the lower tiers of counties near the 
                        Ohio
                     River. The 
                        
                            New Orleans
                        
                    , built by Nicholas J. Roosevelt, made its maiden voyage from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                     in 1811. Five years later, the 
                        
                            Washington
                        
                    , built by Captain Henry Shreve, made the voyage from 
                        New Orleans
                     to Pittsburg, demonstrating that navigation of the steamboat against the current of the 
                        Ohio
                    -
                        Mississippi
                     would be a success. During the next few years, points on the 
                        Ohio
                    , favored by their location on a navigable river flowing westward, an abundance of
                    timber and proximity to mines to supply the iron necessary, began building steamboats. During the
                    year 1818, fourteen boats were built for use on the 
                        Ohio
                    -
                        Mississippi
                    —five at Pittsburg, one at Wheeling, four at 
                        Louisville
                    , and four at 
                        Cincinnati
                    . The next year, twenty-three were added to the number for service on this great
                    waterway. 15 Then, too, plans were being made to remove the difficulties of
                    getting steamboats over the rapids at 
                        Louisville
                    , for we read in the Western Gazetteer, published in 1817, that
                    "an improvement of the navigation is about to be attempted by a canal around the rapids.
                    The legislature has incorporated a company with a capital of $1,000,000".16
            
            Steps taken by the vanguard to organize 
                        Jennings County
                     made the wilderness more promising. When the first settlers arrived, the present 
                        Jennings County
                     was included within the territorial limits of Jackson and Jefferson Counties. The
                    Legislature in session at Corydon passed an act organizing and naming the county in honor of
                    Jonathan Jennings, a young lawyer, who was elected Delegate to Congress from the Territory for three
                    successive terms. He was supported by the anti-slavery element" and by those who wished to
                    shift the capital eastward, among others. He was elected first Governor of Indiana. On December 27,
                    1816, the Legislature passed an act forming 
                        Ripley County
                     out of parts of Jennings and 
                        Dearborn
                     Counties. In 1820 the General Assembly formed some counties from the area known as the
                    "New Purchase." A portion 
                  
                     14 J. M. Peck, New Guide for Emigrants to the West (
                                Boston
                            , 1837), 56.
                  
                     15
                            Semple, American History and Its Geographic Conditions, 288.
                  
                     16
                            Western Gazetteer, or Emigrant's Directory, 77.
                  
                     17 Robert J. Aley, Indiana and It's People (
                                Chicago
                            , 1912), 112.
               
                     of this tract was added to 
                        Jennings County
                    .18 The County was again slightly enlarged by an act of the General
                    Assembly of 1829–1830, according to which 
                        Jefferson County
                     gave up a portion of a quarter section of land which included that part of 
                        Paris
                     lying south of the boundary of 
                        Jennings County
                    . The Legislature later passed an act according to which 
                        Jefferson County
                     gave the remainder of the same quarter section to 
                        Jennings County
                    .19
            
            It was in 1817 that the organization of the new County was completed and Vernon was selected as the
                    County Seat. John Vawter and William McClure offered a tract of land at the present site of Vernon
                    on the condition that the County Seat be located on this tract, stipulating that: the eastern part
                    of the town be forever open and common to the citizens of said county and town; that no part of the
                    donation considered as public ground should ever be disposed of in any manner other than for public
                    purposes and sites for the erecting of public buildings. Two acres were to be given as a burial
                    ground and three lots of one acre each for public worship and school houses. Another party offered a
                    site about one half mile southwest of the present site of Vernon, and 
                        Paris
                     eleven miles south of Vernon was also mentioned as a favorable location for the
                    County's capital. Two of the commissioners favored the present site of Vernon, and the
                    third gave his consent. The town had been platted and surveyed, and some of the lots sold by
                    September, 1815.
            The voters, at their first election, chose James Stott, county clèrk; Morris Baker,
                    sheriff; Samuel Graham to serve as commissioner for three years; Samuel 
                        Campbell
                     to fill the office of commissioner for two years; and James Shepherd to serve the one
                    year term. When the votes were counted for commissioners, it was found that a Mr. Baker and Mr.
                    Shepherd had received a tie vote. The judges of the election board proposed to settle the question
                    by lot. The name of each candidate was written on a separate slip of paper and placed in a hat.
                    Smith Vawter, a seven year old lad, was tested as to his ability to read writing. Evidently he
                    showed in the test that he could not read the writing for he was instructed to draw a slip from the
                    hat. Previously it had been agreed that the first name drawn was to be commissioner. Mr.
                    Shepherd's 
                  
                     18 George Pence and Nellie Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries,
                                Territory, State and County (Indiana Historical Collections, XIX, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1933), 134.
               
                     name was drawn. Zenas Kemberlin was sent as representative to
                    the state Legislature and John Sering served as the district's first state senator.
            In March the Board of Commissioners held their first meeting and "each produced the
                    sheriff's certificate" of having been duly elected, with an endorsement on the
                    back thereof by Alexander Lewis? Esq. indicating that they had severally "taken the oaths
                    prescribed by the Constitution of the State." At this meeting the county was divided into
                    townships, and an election was held in each. 
                        Montgomery
                     Township included all that part of the county south of the line dividing congressional
                    townships five and six north. The election in that township was to have been held at the cabin of
                    John Chambers. The remainder of the county was to have been known as 
                        Franklin
                     Township. The election was held at the cabin of John Wooley. When Dr. Pabody, who had
                    been appointed "Lister" of 
                        Jennings County
                     and who had furnished the bond of $1500 which was required, made his report
                    of the valuation of the taxable property in the county, the commissioners made a tax levy. Town lots
                    were to be taxed at fifty cents on each hundred dollars of valuation, silver watches were taxed at
                    the rate of twenty-five cents. These frontiersmen must have felt it a strict duty to meet their tax
                    obligations, for the delinquent taxes for the year 1818 amounted to six dollars and ninety-nine
                    cents.
            In July, 1817, the circuit court convened at Vernon with William Prather and Chapman Denton serving
                    as associate judges. The sheriff and clerk were both absent. Frederick Bannon, county coroner,
                    performed the duties of sheriff. One of the first acts of the court was the adoption of the county
                    seal. The seal adopted was an eagle standing in the center on a plow while over its head were
                    nineteen stars and at its feet the number 1817 in Roman numerals.19
            
            Why were most of the early settlers content to remain in 
                        Jennings County
                    ? Why did they not sell as some of their neighbors who entered land to speculate? Why
                    did they not join the stream of pioneers that shifted the frontier northward into the "New
                    Purchase" along with Ransom Perry, James and William Hobbs, Zackariah Tannehil, Williamson
                    Terrill, John Carney, 
                        Randolph
                     and Hezikiah Griffith, James 
                  
                     19 Ibid., 10.
               
                     Ferill, John V. Storey, or others who settled in 
                        Bartholomew
                     County,20 or with John and William McConnell who followed the
                    frontier as it shifted into 
                        Shelby
                     County, or join the human stream that pushed northward to the central part of the
                    State? Or join in successive migrations as did Phineas and Ephriam Bundy, and Fielden 
                        Brown
                     who formed a part of the moving throng that reached 
                        Hamilton County
                     in 1851 and in 1855 were on the frontier in southern 
                        Wisconsin
                    ? John Vawter seemed to have loved the frontier for he, too, joined the northward moving
                    families and settled in 
                        Morgan County
                    . Many of the early colonists, however, remained in 
                        Jennings County
                     for several reasons. In a few years they had been able to build substantial homes, and,
                    by the cultivation of the new land, the sale of lumber from the hardwood forests of yellow-poplar
                    and other timber, the sale of limestone and farm products, they not only gained a livelihood, but
                    were able to accumulate some property. Furthermore, some with friends among those who left 
                        Jennings County
                     that encountered swampy lands or epidemics like the "milk-sickness,"
                    were content to let good enough alone and refuse to experiment in new regions where they might fare
                    worse.
            
               
                  20 Historical Atlas of the State of Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1876), 301. For a brief treatment of 
                            Jennings County
                        , see pages 301–302.
               
                  21 Pence and Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries, 510.
               
                  22
                        Ibid., 298, 578, 764.
               
                  23 George Pence, "What 
                            Jennings County
                         Did for 
                            Bartholomew
                        ." Type-written article in the Indiana State Library.
            
         
         
         
            The Century-Old Wright Home
            JULIE LECLERC KNOX
            
            This fine home on the old river road between 
                        Vevay
                     and 
                        Madison
                     was built a hundred years ago. It is usually known as the John W. Wright place, and is
                    now the property of Mrs. Beryl Malcolmson.1 Exceedingly well preserved and
                    freshly painted, like a petite old court beauty, it greatly belies its age, though boldly avowing it
                    in the fan-shaped embellishment on the facade. There the initials of the first owner and the date of
                    building—"J. W. W.—1836"—stand forth in strong relief.2
            
            Situated on a fat, little knoll, this remarkable old house commands a sweeping and beautiful view of
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     River and the 
                        Kentucky
                     hills from the front; but the outlook is al most as intriguing as one looks toward the
                    Indiana hills from the rear of the house. Only a story and a half, the building yet has a dignity
                    almost manorial. The bricks of which it is built were burned on the place and it was two years in
                    process of erection.
            There are two wooden pillars at each end of the house and also at each extremity of the small porch,
                    or stoop, across the front. Two doors side by side, form the entrances to the two front rooms. They
                    are beautifully panelled and of white pine. The transoms above them have a puzzling
                    appearance—diamond shaped panes, placed horizontally, instead of vertically, as is usual.
                    But after seeing the sailor like de signs of the interior, it is not hard to fancy the door-panes as
                    like fish scales, or even a conventionalized school of fish, for the architects were sailor men, in
                    a sense.
            Charles Bruce Freeman and his son Thomas were from Nantucket. They learned the trade of wood-carving
                    in the 
                  
                     1 Before submission for publication, this article was read by Mrs.
                            Beryl Malcolmson and received her complete approval. The information relating to Charles
                            Bruce Free man and his son Thomas was furnished by Mrs. Malcolmson. Further facts were
                            obtained from two great-granddaughters of Charles Bruce Freeman, Laura and Josephine Lamson.
                            Mrs. Joseph Lamson, whose great-aunt on her mother's side married Thomas Freeman,
                            also furnished some information. Her husband, Joseph Lamson is a great-grandson of Charles
                            Bruce Freeman. Still further information was obtained indirectly from Mrs. Ida Llewellen of 
                                Columbus
                            , Indiana, a daughter of Thomas Freeman, who helped his father build the Wright
                            home, Mr. Eaney Freeman, brother of Mrs. Llewellen, died at Henryville, Indiana, two years
                            ago. He visited Mr. Lee Burns before he wrote his pamphlet, Early Architects
                                and Builders of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1935), Mr. Burns gives a brief write-up of the Wright home on p. 207 of his
                            study which is No. 3 of vol. XI, Indiana Historical Society Publications.
                  
                     2 The original owner, John W. Wright, was one of seven brothers, each
                            of whom erected a substantial home. The seven homes are found scattered along the 
                                Ohio
                             in both 
                                Kentucky
                             and Indiana. This home built for J. W. Wright, is on the right side of the
                            highway (State Road No. 56) from 
                                Vevay
                             to 
                                Madison
                            , about four and one-half miles from 
                                Vevay
                            .
               
                     shipyards of 
                  Bedford, Massachusetts
               . From
                    there they drifted to 
                        Philadelphia
                    , but learning that there was much building being done in the rich 
                        Ohio
                     Valley, they ventured farther West. Mr. Wright gave them the contract for building his
                    house and also carte blanche to indulge their own fancy which they did at will, as
                    is apparent immediately one enters the house.
            The most distinctive portion of the old house is the west front room with its nautical carvings
                    extending around above the baseboard and also at the top of the wainscoting. On this the architects
                    seem to have lavished the wealth of their efforts, for the mere joy of the working. Not a sign of
                    classic influence is to be seen. Instead of the familiar "egg-and-dart" motive, or
                    some such, of the Greeks, there are mouldings that look like rope and some that Mrs. Malcolmson
                    facetiously likened to Dutchmen's pipes, interlocked, stem to bowl. Others resemble the
                    pine tree, conventionalized. One is impressed with the originality plus of the builders who learned
                    their craft making carvings for boat cabins and in shaping figure-heads for vessels. The magic and
                    mystery of Hawthorne's "Drowne's Wooden Image," and other such
                    tales, seem to be brought directly home to the beholder.
            These details are noticed only after the lovely mantel piece has been examined, for attention is
                    immdiately focused on it. Fashioned of pine, it is painted white and adorned by an entablature, in
                    the center of which is carved a great star, representing, no doubt, the North Star,
                    sailors' guide and com pass.4 Above the mantel, very appropriately
                    hangs, an heir loom in the family, a picture of the famous old ship Constitution,
                    the proposed destruction of which inspired Holmes to write his immortal poem. On each side of the
                    mantel, reaching 
                  
                     3 Charles Bruce Freeman, at the time this house was built, was sixty
                            years old and Thomas Freeman, said to have done most of the construction, was twenty-one.
                            These builders remained in southern Indiana and many descendants of the former's
                            daughter, Mrs, Abigail Freeman Lamson, are prominent citizens of 
                                Vevay
                             and 
                                Switzerland County
                            . It was the pleasure of the writer, through the kindness of the Misses Laura
                            and Josephine Lamson, granddaughters of "Aunt Abby," as she was lovingly
                            called by many, to look through the architectural draft book of Charles Bruce Freeman. Some
                            pages of it were at some time used by Mrs. Lamson as a sort of combination scrap-book and
                            diary. Along with newspaper clippings and pictures of Maximilian, Carlotta, Victoria,
                            Princess, Eugenie, poems and other matter, Mrs. Lamson wrote in the old fashioned script of
                            her time an original poem to the memory of her father. Familiar quotations such as,
                            "Many a true word is said in Jest"; "Some are wise and some are
                            otherwise," are inter twined with drafts of stately buildings, that fill the
                            columns along wiht interesting bits of family history. One of the most outstanding items is
                            the record that she had forded the 
                                Ohio
                             River on horse back, at Craig's Bar, when sixty years of age. Mrs.
                            Lamson was widely known as a woman of superior intelligence, gracious manner and kindness of
                            heart. She passed away in 1884 at the age of eighty-nine. Her scrap-book, attesting
                            highmindedness and literary inclinations (She wrote considerable poetry), has been carefully
                            and reverently handed down in the family from father to son.
                  
                     4 Mr. Burns says: "The rope moldings and the use of stars and
                            other! devices in the carved woodwork, while unusual in residence work, were common enough
                            in the cabins of whaling ships on which they had worked."
               
                     from floor to ceiling, are the long presses of pioneer
                    builders. These are of pine painted dark and they have the quaint drop-fastenings, shaped like
                    acorns. The press on the right is emphasized as to width by strips of white wood that divide it into
                    drawer and bottom cupboard.
            The east front room is of the same size as the west room, but has not the carving and there is a
                    press on but one side of its mantel. Back of this room is a large, sunny kitchen with interesting
                    windows that give a fine view. There is a corner cupboard of butternut (white-walnut) with wooden
                    knob fastenings and there is not a single nail in it. There is a long back porch, closed at each end
                    by double shutters. Several rooms, originally built for servants, have been torn away, and today
                    there is a small room, detached from the house, just be hind the porch.
            At the rear of the front room with the wonderful carvings is the dining room in which is one of the
                    most outstanding features of the house, a remarkable, winding stairway, suggesting those on ocean
                    steamers. It has a graceful sweep, like the sinuous curve of a dolphin, flipping its tail. Standing
                    out from the wall, it leaves a narrow alcove with a ledge above, high over which is a window. The
                    blind of this window has to be adjusted by a long rope-like cord. This action reminds one of the
                    sailors climbing to furl and unfurl sails. The rail of the stairway is of walnut, the spindles of
                    cherry and the steps of ash. The latter have the same shape and tread as those seen on ships.
            The stair leads to the master bedroom, from which one may pass through double doors, upper part
                    glass, out upon a Romeo and Juliet balcony, topping the downstairs front porch. There is a closet or
                    attic at each side of this bedroom, each entered by a lovely paneled door. The three rooms on the
                    second floor, running true to form as in older houses, are on different levels. On the left of the
                    landing at the top of the stairway one ascends one step to the door of the bedroom over the dining
                    room. To the right of the landing one opens another door, steps down on a small platform, and then
                    descends two more steps into the bedroom over the kitchen. The door leading to this room has a
                    raise-up-the-latch-walk-in fastening like those of the home of Little Red Ridinghood's
                    Grandmother. The string is as strong now as it ever could have been.
            
            To reach the door of the master bed room, one must step up from the landing at the top of the stair.
                    Mrs. Malcomson, who has a keen appreciation of fitness in architecture com plains of some remodeling
                    that spoiled somewhat the original plan before the house came into her possession.
            Aside from the intriguing quaintness of the building, many antique pieces of furniture add to its
                    charm. An old cherry chest of drawers fills in a niche in the room of carvings that was once a
                    window which opened into the dining room. The latter room boasts a wonderful old sideboard and china
                    closet combined. Built of solid walnut, it is of unusual design and quite massive. There is an old
                    and odd glass butter-mould with the figure of a cow marked, "Patent applied for,"
                    but by whom and when is one of the mysteries of the past.
            A great brass kettle, full of wood beside the fireplace, tempts one to envy, but the most desirable
                    of all the desirable antiques is a round table with pedestal which looks as if it might have been
                    modeled after that of King Arthur, only it is much smaller. It suggests the family circle, seated
                    around it on a wintry night with books and magazines piled high upon it. The "clouded
                    sky" patch-work quilt, spread on the bed upstairs, must not be overlooked. Many years old,
                    it is mute witness to the imagery and needle-work of the ladies of long ago. This old home has
                    attracted quite a bit of attention, from time to time, and some publicity has been given it by 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers, the remarkable mantel-piece having posed for its likeness.
         
         
         
            Legend of Cedar Isle
            BENJAMIN W. NEVIS
            
            
                    Give ear to this tale of the 
                            Wabash
                        — Of alluring Cedar Isle,1 One Indian tryst-place
                        upon which E'en Great Manitou did smile; For it was so wondrously wooded With the
                        willow, plum, and pine That, lanterned with Luna's full glory, 'Twas fit place
                        for scenes divine.
               
                    The time of this Indian drama, Paleface sages now do know, Was war's weary pause in his
                        drum-beats Near two hundred years ago: The Chickasaws stayed in their Southland, And the Sioux
                        skulked farther west;— Both shunned this fair land of Miamis As would squaws a
                        hornets' nest!
                    Proud Iroquois quailed, driven back dawnward By this same Miami band. Not yet had our fur-hungry
                        white men Felt the spur of lust for land! Bad birds2 were not whispering to
                        young bloodds To seek loot in border raids. But periods of peace woke romance,
                        and Brought back joy to love-lorn maids!
                    The spring hunting-season was over, And Miami men came home To as royal and attractive a welcome
                        As were those of ancient 
                            Rome
                        . Obliging Sol yielded his kingdom To young love's returning moon, And left
                        the air laden with fragrance As on west he marched toward June!
                    
                  
                     1 Cedar Isle is located in the 
                                Wabash
                             River nearly four miles above 
                                Logansport
                            , and about ten miles below Peru. It is now used as the home of the 
                                Logansport
                             Country Club. This poem has a rhythm which may be described as Algonquin. To
                            get the right effect, it should be read with a soft accompaniment of Indian drums.
                  
                     2
                            Bad Birds la a name later given by peace-loving Indians to the British,
                            whom they charged with inciting the younger warriors to make attacks on American
                            settlements.
               
                    
                    Now, in L'Anguille3 dwelt scores of brave warriors, And fair maidens
                        many more; But fairest of these, pretty Wild Rose, Brought the others trouble sore! She thrilled
                        at the homage men paid her,— Trampled hearts to show her power; Yet, trifling with most, she loved truly The renowned young chief named Flower!
                    Through thickets there crashed some deer, trembling At first scent of trouble,
                        nigh; A buffalo's plunge stopped the frogs' and Trilling toads' weird
                        lullaby! At howl of a wolf in the woodland Even otters hushed their stir! So
                        all was quite still by the river When our drama did occur.
                    While 
                            Wabash
                         tiptoed through this silence On that night so long ago, The moon cast a spell o'er the valley With her soothing, silver glow. And oft on such
                        nights, did young lovers Point the prow of bark canoe To high northeast banks of this island;
                        For these give the rarest view.
                    Our twain stole away from the village: They did heed that call that comes To long-parted lovers
                        more clearly Than the roll of Indian drums!— The call to come out in the moonlight
                        And to view the moon's broad smile;— The call of romance in the springtime,
                        And the lure of Cedar Isle!—
                    Calling youth from the campfires and cabins And their stirring tales of war; From powwows, songs,
                        dances, and feasting,— Olde Towne's charms on nights of yore! Wild Rose rode
                        dark trails one league southward 
                     
                        3 Pronounced Lon-gwee. Olde Towne (or
                                L'Angulle), which extended for three miles along a plum-tree-covered ridge
                                overlooking Eel River (a tributary which enters the 
                                    Wabash
                                 at 
                                    Logansport
                                ), consisted of scores of rude cabins and huts constructed chiefly of logs,
                                bark, branches, and brush or mats, rather than the commonly pictured wigwams (covered
                                with skins) used by Indian tribes inhabiting the plains.
                  
                         On a Spanish pony's back; Flower, too, reached the
                        ford of the 
                            Wabash
                         Through the dense-leafed forest black.
                    They took cached canoes to the tryst-place, And there met, and stood on high: Two motionless
                        forms cast a shadow,— Silhouettes against the sky! Moonlit waters caressed Cedar
                        Island. Wild-plum blooms bent low to kiss. Warm winds breathed a prayer o'er the lovers
                        And their dreams of future bliss.
                    But DOOMED were such dreams and this tableau: There was murder muttering near!
                        A rival in ambush stood cursing,— And they too bewitched to hear! His bowstring this
                        villain pulled grimly, And the arrow carried true: Her lover fell dead at her feet,
                        as— Startled, she a step withdrew.
                    When this fiend — a Miami called Hailstone— Saw Chief Flower was really
                        slain, His blood-curdling yell stirred shocked echoes; But black hate still stirred his brain!
                        With whoops he from hiding dashed forward Hot to SCALP the chief renowned,
                        And thus bar that brave soul FOREVER From the Happy Hunting Ground!
                    When moonbeams revealed Hailstone's scalp knife In the hand that would assail, A
                        horrified moon hid her features With a dark, enshrouding veil. The girl then found grief giving
                        way to Dread of this worse threatened woe, And kneeled in tense prayer before him Ere he sprang
                        to scalp his foe:
                    "Good Manitou! God of Miamis! Hearken to a maiden's prayer! O guard my dear
                        lover's poor body, For quite helpless it lies there!"  Then quick did the god of Miamis Act upon this young
                        squaw's plea: He whispered strange words to the river, And the wind, and earth
                        — all three!
                    These elements, rousing, responded — With a ROAR that split the
                        sod. To Him of the Indians "Good Manitou," That Great Spirit we call
                        "God." Steep shores cracked and split all asunder In reply to His
                        command;— Both rivals rolled down to the river With crashed rock, torn turf, and
                        sand!
                    Wild Rose had leaped back from the bluff which At her feet now fell so sheer;— A
                        feeling of awe had come o'er her, Which helped shield her heart from
                        fear. The waters boiled but a few moments;— Again silence reigned
                        supreme! Rock Cliff loomed — a limestone memorial To those buried
                        in the stream!
                    Consolement the 
                            Wabash
                         then murmured To the maiden thus bereaved; The willow trees wept, in deep sorrow,
                        While the girl — still kneeling — grieved. But tenderly, Manitou touched her When wild turks hailed newborn day;— And, lifted, she
                        rose from the greensward Strangely thrilled, and turned away.
                    Soon after she rose, the isle's cedars Stole away4 and ceased to
                        mourn; For she rose to the exquisite glory Of a soul that is reborn: Wild Rose, deeply moved by
                        the happenings, Her dear friends and home resigned, Devoting her whole life
                        thenceforward To the service of mankind.
                    North trails she trod first to the Great Lakes, A French priest her tale to tell; 
                     
                        4 There are no longer any cedar groves, or even isolated cedar
                                trees, on this wooded island. The willows and plum trees have likewise vanished.
                  
                         And learned healing secrets from him and Each old Indian
                        sage, as well. Three score years, she then traveled this country And blessed
                        many a tribe and town By ministering unto their needy As the nurse of first renown!
                    Thus dawned that old Indian preachment, Handed down from age to age Till even our "Big
                            Knives"5 have given it In their paleface books a page:
                        "Ofttimes the quite frivolous and care-free When once felled by
                        fate's harsh rod,— Recovering, rise up to true greatness
                        At the lifting touch of God."6
               
                    
                  
                     5 The name Big Knives was often given to the
                            American colonists (and in time to all citizens of the 
                                United States
                            ), because of the swords formerly conspicuously carried by their troops in time
                            of war.
                  
                     6 The author wishes to make grateful acknowledgements to Dr. Charles
                            E. Slocum, Mr. Frank Swigart, Dr. Harlow Lindley, and Dr. J.Z. Powell.
               
                
         
         
         
            The Indiana Historical Society
            By CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            The Conference of Historical Societies has recently published a Handbook of Historical
                        Societies in the 
                            United States
                         and 
                            Canada
                        
               , containing the addresses, officers, staff of, and brief general information
                    about, each of the non-commercial organizations of a prominent character known to the Conference.
                    The compilation has been made by the Secretary of the Conference, Dr. Christopher B. Coleman,
                    Secretary of the Indiana Historical Society. It is distributed to Societies that are members of the
                    Conference and is sold to libraries and individuals for $1.50. Approximately eight
                    hundred organizations are listed—a formidable array—not only numerically, but
                    also as to resources and personnel. Even a casual reading impresses one with the amount of
                    historical source material collected by historical societies and with the volume of publication.
            Pungent criticism has been made, undoubtedly with justification, of the value and the standard of
                    many of the publications of historical societies. It seems apparent, however, that there has been
                    great improvement in this respect in recent years. As was pointed out by W. Stull Holt in the Proceedings of the Middle States Association of History Teachers (Vol. XXXII,
                    1935), historical writing in the 
                        United States
                     has passed through three phases in the last two generations. Down to the beginning of
                    this period, the larger part of the best historical work in the 
                        United States
                     was done by men outside of educational institutions, or by persons loosely connected
                    with them. George Bancroft, William H. Prescott and John Lothrop Motley, and most of the
                    contributors to Justin Winsor's Narrative and Critical History of the 
                            United States
                        
                were gentlemen of leisure, scholars who gave their time to literary work, and
                    business or professional men who were interested in history as an avocation. There was very little
                    specific instruction in history, as such, in the colleges, and there were very few professors of
                    history.
            Within the last sixty years, history has become one of the leading departments in all the
                    universities, colleges and high schools of the country. Under the leadership of university
                    professors, many of the earlier of whom were trained abroad, historical writing emanating from
                    institutions of  learning became more of a scientific and
                    technical character than was the case in the earlier work. The tradition of historical work in
                    historical societies has been slow to take cognizance of the more modern and technical requirements
                    developed in university circles. To be sure, there has been all along excellent and even great
                    historical writing by men such as James Ford Rhodes, James Truslow Adams, and others whose
                    connection has been chiefly with historical societies and only slightly with universities. It seems
                    logical that the two fields should exercise mutual influence upon each other and such has probably
                    become the case. University historical work, taken by itself, has tended toward meticulous, detailed
                    writing upon episodes, personages of minor importance, and minute units of public affairs. Writers
                    outside university circles are often careless, and sometmes ignorant, of the accepted canons of
                    historical criticism; they deal with large subjects in a too cavalier and a too free method of work.
                    The publications of many historical socities also tend to become too local, or often too personal,
                    in the subjects with which they deal. Participation of university men in historical socities and
                    contact of historical societies with universities is doubtless tending toward improvement in all
                    these respects.
            The Handbook of Historical Societies furnishes a text for reflection on this and
                    other phases of historical work. It is certain to be also a convenience to students doing historical
                    research by making it easier for them to correspond with, or visit, the societies which may be
                    helpful. It should also improve the morale of what might be called the weaker societies by showing
                    the extent of organizations of similar character.
            The Indiana Historical Society, together with the 
                        New York
                     Historical Society and the Historical Society of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , gave subventions to the Handbook of Historical Societies which made
                    its issuance possible. It can be procured at the office of the Indiana Historical Society, State
                    Library and Historical Building, 140 North Senate Avenue, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; price $1.50.
         
         
         
            History Teachers' Forum
            HISTORY FOR ITS OWN SAKE
            THE
                    Editor
            
            The writer has taught only history, with a sprinkling of courses in government, in certain periods,
                    since September, 1898. That is nearly forty years. In that period, he has taught large and small
                    classes in the high school, large and small classes in teachers' colleges, and large and
                    small university classes. He has read a vast number of examination papers, recorded many hundreds of
                    final grades, read too many term reports, and supervised the writing of quite a few theses by
                    graduate students. On the basis of this long and rather strenuous experience, he not long ago voiced
                    the following opinion: 
                        The teacher of history who cannot, at any point in the course, be it Roman, Medieval, Modern,
                            English or American history, place himself on any part of the pathway and go forward or
                            backward with sure steps is poorly prepared for his work. Even the college or university
                            professor, who rightly prides himself on his skill in historical criticism, dares not lose
                            sight of the need to make plain the pathway through the period. After all, research and
                            historical criticism are not ends in themselves, but means to be used in reaching an
                            understanding of events, the actors in, and the movements of history.1
                  
                    
            
            Whether a teacher of history, even when equipped with adequate knowledge, can successfully present a
                    period in the life of any people or not, depends on his spirit and attitude. It is one thing to be
                    able to recite facts in a lecture or in response to a question, but quite another to re-live the
                    events of a past time. When one reads of, or hears of, or speaks of a man, a river, a mountain
                    range, a city, the march of an army, or a parliamentary debate, he must think of flesh and blood,
                    rivers of real water, actual mountains, real lines of travel, picture the activities of urban
                    centers, and hear the voices of law-makers.
            If the teacher, who presents or develops the course, naturally and consistently goes behind the words
                    and the maps to people, events and geographic features, this will materially help those in his
                    classes. Perhaps it cannot be engendered by a definite process of instruction, but somehow the habit
                        
                  
                     1 Under the "History Teachers' Forum' In
                            the issue of December, 1934 (XXX, 867–368), there appeared a short article
                            "The Trodden Path" from the pen of the Edtior. The
                            quoted passage is from that article.
               
                     of thinking of realities, and not merely of the historical
                    narrative or of graphic representations of areas of the earth, must be cultivated in both teacher
                    and learner.
            Lectures, the queries and answers of recitation periods, examination questions and the resulting
                    papers or blue-books, should all be clear and definite. In all of them, however, the necessity of
                    recreating history as something that was once in the making should be constantly recognized. It is
                    appalling to note to what extent an able well-prepared, conscientious, hard-working teacher can
                    ruin, or partially ruin, the study of history by using too rigidly a text-book, an outline, a
                    required note-book, a special type of examination questions. One, or more, or all of these can kill
                    the spirit of a class, or, if not that, leave the members with a wooden notion of history or a
                    wooden knowledge of events.
            To present accurate information, never losing sight of the fact that everything that ever happened
                    had to happen somewhere and sometime and affect somebody, and to make clear the sequence and
                    connection of events—these are the outstanding obligations of the teacher of history. All
                    devices and methods are secondary to these fundamentals. The significance of past events for the
                    people of today is not a matter of first importance. The interpretation of history comes in as a
                    matter of course, but it should be remembered that it can easily be overdone; that the meaning of
                    events is often not apparent; that what thinkers of one generation make out of a past age, those of
                    another will discard; that different social classes of the same period arrive at different
                    conclusions. Nothing is more certain than this, that the teacher of history who forces a
                    contribution for the benefit of present day society from all past events or movements is sure to
                    present much of doubtful value. To re-create the past is a fascinating process, and there is no
                    danger that the study of history will ever be abandoned. It is foolish, however, to believe that
                    peoples have lived and struggled in bygone times mainly in order that we might profit through their
                    wisdom or by avoiding their mistakes. They lived, they achieved, they made mistakes, and the best
                    that we can do is to strive to make the most of our heritage.
         
         
         
            Document
            JOURNAL OF JOHN T. WILLIAMS, 1850
            The old journal or diary which is here reproduced was written by John T. Williams while on a long
                    over-land trip to 
                        California
                     in 1850. The journey began on March 11, 1850, at Kirklin, 
                        Clinton County
                    , Indiana, and ended on September 20 at Parks Bar, 
                        California
                    . The diarist and his immediate companions stayed in camp at this place for six months
                    when they moved to Grass Valley, Nevada County. The last entry which gives this information was of
                    necessity added at some date not only after the six months period had elapsed but after the end of
                    the gold-digging period in Grass Valley was over. The blank book in which the gold-seeker kept the
                    record is of an old type much used for keeping personal accounts or recording memoranda. It has a
                    tan leather binding but not the usual flap and short strap fastener. It is 3 1/2 x 6 inches. The
                    journal was started on the fifth page. The second and third pages list the supplies bought in the
                    vicinity of 
                  St. Joseph, Missouri
               , and the prices paid in detail. The total expenditure for the
                    initial outfit was $551.95 and the total load was 1800 pounds. Most of the items with
                    cost are mentioned in the jounral at the time of purchase, and along the way prices of commodities
                    are often stated.
            The journal is not separated into daily entries, but they are recorded in regular sequence. Each page
                    is numbered and the month and day is indicated at the top of each page; that is, the date of the
                    matter recorded at the beginning of each page determines the month and day written at the top. Since
                    it would have been difficult to reproduce the document as written, and, since the dates of entries
                    are given through the body of each page, it has been very easy to reduce the journal to the usual
                    form of a diary. It seems entirely probable that the entire diary was carefully copied by Mr.
                    Williams at some date shortly after his 
                        California
                     experience ended. The probability that this was true is suggested by the fact that
                    there is no break in the writing anywhere as there certainly would be in an original copy written
                    from day to day. Furthermore there is but one change in the color or character of the ink used, and
                    no evidence that more than one kind of pen was used. Still the diary reads as if each  entry was originally made either on the day to which it refers or
                    almost immediately afterwards, except the last two or three lines.
            The journal is the property of a daughter of the diarist, Mrs. Sarah Williams Leasure, who lives in 
                        Auburn
                    , Indiana. Through the kindness of Mrs. Leasure, the Editor has had
                    the use of the manuscript copy, which was obtained for him by the Rev. John W. Meloy, pastor of the
                    United Presbyterian Church of 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            John T. Williams was born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     on July 3, 1825, and was therefore twenty-five when he made the trip to 
                        California
                    . He remained in 
                        California
                     for about four years, being quite successful in his search for gold. He returned, not
                    to Indiana, where he had lived for a few years before going to 
                        California
                    , but to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . There he married Jane Bryerly at 
                        Frankfort
                     Springs, 
                        Beaver County
                    , on September 20, 1855. The next year he migrated to the 
                        Iowa
                     frontier, settling in Ringgold County. He died at Mt. Ayr, 
                        Iowa
                    , on March 12, 1881.1
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        1850 JOURNAL OF THE ROUT FROM INDIANA TO CALLIFORNA.
                        March 11th four of us left kirkland Clinton Co. Ia.2 for
                                    Calliforna, the day was fair the road some muddy, we only travled 15 miles put up at
                                    Cottons tavern at 4 o'clock in the evening.
                        12th fair day roads good we travled to Indianopolis at one oclock in the afternoon,
                                    we put up at a tavern till next morning.
                        13th we got on the car at 8 oclock and roled out for 
                                        Madison
                                    , at one oclock in the afternoon, we were in 
                                        Madison
                                     safe and sound,3 we got on a steamboat the same
                                    evening bound for 
                                        Lewisville
                                    , at 9 oclock at night we were at 
                                        Lewisville
                                    . it has rained all day and is still raining, the river is high.
                        14th we got on another steamboat bound for St. Lewis, passage 8 dollars in the cabin,
                                    but did not leave till the next day [15th] at 1 oclock in the afternoon, in the
                                    evening we saw one boy brushing in oats4 and different others
                                    had commenced ploughing.
                        
                           
                              1 This information relative to Mr. Williams is contained
                                        in obituary notices published at the time of his death in 1881, and from an
                                        obituary notice which appeared at the death of his widow in 1917. These notices
                                        were furnished by the Rev. John W. Meloy.
                           
                              2 Kirklin, 
                                            Clinton County
                                        , Indiana. This town is on the 
                                            Michigan
                                         Road (State Road No. 29) about ten miles southeast of 
                                            Frankfort
                                        .
                           
                              3 The train ride from 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         to 
                                            Madison
                                         was possibly a new experience for the four gold-seekers. The first
                                        train came into 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         from 
                                            Madison
                                         over this line, the first railroad of Indiana, in October, 1847.
                                        Mr. Williams had come to Indiana about four years earlier, and he may have
                                        ridden on a train before going to 
                                            Madison
                                         from 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        .
                           
                              4 Instead of drawing a harrow over the field where the
                                        grain had been sowed by hand (called "broadcasting"), the team
                                        was drawing a small tree with many branches and smaller limbs over the field in
                                        order to cover the grain with the loose soil.
                        
                        
                        16th at 10 oclock in the morning we passed the mouth of the wabash river the 
                                        Ohio
                                     river is verry high the water is in the bottoms and in the first story
                                    of the buildings the cattle and other stak [stock] is in flat boats to keep them
                                    from drounding.
                        Sunday morning the 17th we come in the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     river, the wheat fields is green here, the boat struck a sand bar in
                                    the forenoon, but backed of in a few minuets and no damage done., the river is low
                                    it is warm enough here to go in our shirt sleaves and be comfortable.
                        18th at half past 1 oclock in the afternoon we landed at St. Lewis, the day was warm
                                    and the streets is crowed with buisness we got on board [19th] of another boat bound
                                    for 
                                        St. Joseph
                                     passage 8 dollars.
                        20th at 1 oclock in the morning the boat left for 
                                        St. Joseph
                                    , at 6 oclock in the morning we come in the mouth of the 
                                        Missouri
                                     river the river is low, at 2 oclock in the evening we passed a
                                    steamboat that was snaged and sunk one week agoe, but no lives was lost, it was in
                                    water up to the cabin on one side and over it on the other side.
                        21st at 2 oclock in the afternoon, the boat struck a sand bar there was some gamblers
                                    gambling at the time the boat struck they had about 40 dollars in silver on the
                                    table, the boat struck so hard that the money all jolted of the table on the floor,
                                    they all run out and left their money on the floor but finding there was no damage
                                    done they come back and gethered up their money, there was one child died on the
                                    boat this morning with croop.
                        22nd at 8 oclock in the morning we are at Jefferson City, there was one man lost last
                                    night it is supposed that he was pushed overboard.
                        23rd the river is verry low and the boat is on sand bars every hour or 2
                        Sunday morning [24th] the snow is about 4 inches deep, and stormy, the boat is on
                                    sand bar and out of wood, they run ashore and gethered some dead cotton wood poles,
                                    that lasted till they got to a wood yard.
                        25th at noon we come to Independance. Jacob and William got of the boat here and went
                                    up to 
                                        St. Joseph
                                     by land, at 4 oclock in the evening we saw 8 Indians for the first I
                                    ever seen,
                        26th at 6 oclock in morning we were at Fort Levensworth,5 at 12
                                    oclock at night we were at 
                                        St. Joseph
                                    
                        
                        27th we got boarding at 2 dollars per week, one mile east of town, Jacob and William
                                    to town this evening.
                        28th we bought four yoke of oxen at 70 dollars per yoke.
                        29 I started for Wm Downards
                        30th at 10 oclock I come to Downards they were all well, the country was beautifull
                                    between 
                                        St. Joseph
                                     and Downards
                        31st I started back to 
                                        St. Joseph
                                     it raind nearly all day, I stoped at John Russels and stayed all night,
                                    they were all well I bought one yoke of oxen from him price 60 dollars
                        April 1st I got back to 
                                        St. Joseph
                                     at 10 oclock we bought one wagon price 100 dollars.
                        April 2 the colery is said to be in town today.
                        3d cold and stormy, 4th still cold and raining, 5th snow and rain.
                        
                           
                              5
                                        
                                            Fort Leavenworth
                                        , was on the west side of the 
                                            Missouri
                                        , a little way north of the present 
                                 Leavenworth, Kansas
                              .
                        
                        
                        6th we hooked up our cattle and started for Downards,6 we eat at
                                    John Russels we overtook McIntyre's and Wynkop's boys in the
                                    evening and campt together that night.
                        Sunday the 7 we roled on, in the evening we bought 480 pounds flower at 2.50 cents
                                    per cwt campt 12 miles from Downards
                        8th at 5 oclock in the evening we come to Downards.
                        9th we bought 4 bushels corn at 25 cents per bushel. 10, 11, 12 cold and frosty we
                                    were at one log cabin raising to day [13th]
                        14th a light skift of snow.
                        15th, 16th cold and rainy
                        17th we drove our oxen to the bottom about one mile to grass for the first they have
                                    got this season.
                        18th clear but cold with north east wind 19th cloudy and cold, 20 clear and cold, 21
                                    cloudy, 22, 23d, cool 24, 25, 26, warm, 27, 28, 29, 30th clear and warm the grass is
                                    begining to grow a little on the high ground, we have nothing to do but play ball
                                    pitch horse shoes and dollars and shute when we feel that way
                        May 1st and 2nd warm, 3 cold, 4 and 5th frosty in the morning, 6th warm, 7th rain, 8,
                                    9, 10 warm and clear, 11th frost.
                        12th we hooked up our cattle and made a start for Calliforna 13 wagons with 52 men of
                                    us started together, we drove till dark about 14 miles over bad road and campt on a
                                    creek, grass was thin but short.
                        13th our company split 7 wagons crosed the river, and 6 in our company went farther
                                    up before we would cross the river,7 days drive about 10 miles
                                    grass was good
                        May 14th was very warm the road was good we drove about 10 miles and campt.
                        15 warm but windy, we drove abot 8 miles and campt grass was tolerble good.
                        16th warm and calm we drove about 5 miles and campt by a creek grass was good.
                        17th we drove about 10 miles went 7 miles past the 
                                        Iowa
                                     line and come to Bomans ferry, the ferry was crowded and we commenced
                                    crossing at 11 oclock at night, no grass for our cattle, at 7 oclock in the morning
                                    of the 18th8
                        
                        May 18th we were all over safe, we got some breakfast and roled out about 3 miles and
                                    come to grass and water and campt till next morning, we now commence standing gard.
                        19th we roled out beautifull road no timber, grass still short days drive about 18
                                    miles, we campt in the Prarie cooked with buffaloe chips 20th there was a fine
                                    shower in the morning, the day was cool travled about 20 miles grass and water
                                    plenty a little wood
                        21st cool we travled 20 miles campt in the prarie, no buffaloe chips nor wood except
                                    a little that we had hailed
                        
                           
                              6 They now traveled northward from 
                                            St. Joseph
                                         on the east side of the 
                                            Missouri
                                         River until they passed the 
                                            Iowa
                                         line.
                           
                              7 The 
                                            Missouri
                                         River. When the company made the actual start for 
                                            California
                                        , they were a few miles northeast of 
                                            St. Joseph
                                         and about fifty miles from the 
                                            Iowa
                                         line.
                           
                              8 The division of the caravan that moved northward into 
                                            Iowa
                                         before crossing the 
                                            Missouri
                                         ferried the River about forty miles south of Council Bluffs. They
                                        now made their way westward towards Fort Kearney on the Platte River, about 175
                                        miles from the 
                                            Missouri
                                         River crossing which they had used.
                        
                        
                        22nd we roled on the road being a little slippy by the rain that fell the night
                                    before, crossed salt creek in the afternoon drove up the creek about 2 miles and
                                    campt on the creek, good grass, water and some wood days travel about 18 miles
                        23rd cool we traveled about 20 miles, and campt good grass water and a little wood.
                        24th we drove about 10 miles to Plat river at noon there was an Indian vilage there
                                    also a creek a little above that was so high that we could not cross we campt close
                                    by the vilage we had to give the Indians some provisions to pay them for the grass
                                    that the cattle eat, the Indians was verry friendly dirty louzy and theivish.
                        25th the creek had fell we crosed the creek the banks was steep and muddy we then
                                    roled on about 15 miles up plat river and campt good grass a little wood.
                        26th we drove about 25 miles from one bend on the river to another no water except
                                    slew water, we campt by the river good grass no wood except on the Islands which we
                                    waded and swum after
                        27th there was a verry heavy rain in the morning and then clears up, our provisions
                                    and clothes being damp we lay here the most of the day to dry them, we hooked up in
                                    the afternoon and drove about six miles and campt on the river.
                        28th we drove about 20 miles, drove through two old Pawnee vilages but no Indians,
                                    there campt on the river bank
                        29th some of the men went out to hunt buffaloo, two of them on horse back went
                                    together, after they had been out some time they saw a party of Indians, they begun
                                    to put spur to their horses for the road the Indians seeing their fright begun to
                                    lay whip after them the Indians horses being swiftest at first they begun to flank
                                    out to head them, they seeing the Indians calculations drew their ramrods and begun
                                    to whip and spur, one horse being swifter than the other the hindmost man begun to
                                    get alarmed and cried out to the other to make your escape I am lost, I am lost make
                                    your escape, the other hollows to him to lay whip while there life there is hope,
                                    there horses outwinding the Indians horses they got away, the same Indians the same
                                    day come across one of our men that was a foot they surrounded him, he presented his
                                    gun and would not let one of them tuche him they found he was not afraid of them and
                                    let him go, days drive 18 miles
                        30th we drove about 20 miles met one wagon on the return they said there was no
                                    grass, campt on the river good grass but little wood
                        May 31st we come in the St Joseph road it was full of emegration, 3 miles farther and
                                    then we come to New fort Carny [Kearney] it is on a beautifull place in the prarie
                                    in the river bottom but little timber, we drove three miles farther and campt the
                                    grass is good water plenty no wood but willow brush
                        June the 1st we have light shower but cool breezes from the mountains, there is some
                                    cases of colery on the road now we campt in the Prarie good grass no wood except
                                    willow brush
                        Sunday June 2nd we passed one company that was detained by burying one man that died
                                    with Collera, we also passed between one and two hundred teems, some of them was
                                    resting others detained by  sickness we campt
                                    one mile from a cool spring of pure water, the first one we have seen since we left 
                                        Missouri
                                    , little grass no wood except willow brush
                        3rd we passed diferent companyes that had stoped on account of colery cases, also one
                                    death, campt one mile from the river but little grass no water nearer than the
                                    river, some brush
                        June 4th cool and windy barren country, we filled up our water cags in the afternoon
                                    and campt at the best grass we could see, it was short but thin no wood some
                                    buffaloe chips.
                        5th cool and rainy drove about 15 miles campt by a slough, swamp grass and rushes
                                    plenty, no wood but little of willow brush.
                        6th we drove 3 miles farther and then crosed the south fork of Plat river,9 it was one mile wide, and the water was up to the wagon beds
                                    in places, the bottom was nothing but sand and verry uneven, which made it verry
                                    heavy drawing, I saw some teams that mist the ford a little and got into swiming
                                    water they got their provisions wet and had to double teem to get out, I also saw
                                    one wagon come out with 11 yoke of cattle to it they were all nearly give out, by
                                    being to long and swiming some, I and one more of our mess waded the river and drove
                                    our teem without much trouble, we was one hour and a quarter crossing the heavyest
                                    pulling I have seen, we drove 2 miles farther and come to good grass and campt the
                                    balance of the day, no wood some willow brush about one mile from us.
                        7th we lay by on account of one of our company being sick with dyaree, we caled on a
                                    doctor that was going by, he give some medison that cheked the diseas.
                        8th, we hooked up and roled on hailing our sick man, we got to the north fork of plat
                                    river against noon distance about 10 miles, there is no grass here nor wood the [We]
                                    keeps up the river about 4 miles, and then we took the high lands, we drove till
                                    night and come to neither grass, wood, nor water, we drove on till 9 oclock at
                                    night, and on the account of storm we had to camp, we staked our cattle to the
                                    ground without any thing to eat, we were not much hungary ourselves and lay down
                                    without eating much.
                        9th we hooked up at daylight drove about 6 miles and come to the river again, there
                                    was but verry little grass here, we turned out our cattle for 2 hours they picked
                                    around and got a little to eat, we then hooked up again and travled till noon and
                                    come to wet bottom where the grass was about 3 inches long, we unyoked again for 2
                                    or 3 hours, the day is verry cool with a little rain, the land here is nothing but
                                    sand we hooked up about 3 oclock and roled on till night, the grass was very short
                                    but thin no wood
                        10th we ocme to 2 indian vilages the Sews [Sioux], we also come to alkily water which
                                    we had to be carefull to keep our cattle from, one of our company was taken verry
                                    sick this evening, some said he had the colery, I have the mumps for my part, we
                                    campt close to a Indian vilage 
                              
                                 9 They were now more than 100 miles west of Fort
                                            Kearney and traveled on toward Fort Laramie over the trail south of the
                                            North Fork of the Platte River.
                           
                                     grass was good to what we have had no wood
                                    except a little drift wood along the river.
                        11th Simpson McIntyre one of our company died with colery, at daylight, the Indians
                                    would not let us burry him near their town, we haled [hauled] him about 3 miles and
                                    burryed him in a sand bank, because the land is nothing but sand here, we then drove
                                    on till evening and got good grass for the first on this fork of the river but
                                    little wood, evenings cool
                        June 12th we hooked up and roled on, it was verry warm at noon, in the evening two
                                    more of our company Garret and James Winekoop were takeing ill with dyaree, we campt
                                    on the river bottom grass was good wood scarce.
                        13th the sick men was still bad, and we did not hook up till 10 oclock, drove till
                                    one oclock, one of the sick men getting worse we stopt again till next day, we had a
                                    fine shower in the evening there was one steer struck with lightening and killed,
                                    grass was short no wood
                        June 14th we hooked up at 7 oclock and roled on, the day being cool cattle traveled
                                    well, at noon we stoped to rest one hour oposite a large rock called the courthouse
                                    rock caled so on account of shape, drove till evening and campt on the river bank
                                    good grass, some drift wood.
                        15th we lay by on account of Garret Winekoop sickness, he died at 3 oclock in the
                                    evening with dyaree, we buryed him 6 oclock, and then hooked up and drove about 4
                                    miles and campt by a spring good grass but no wood.
                        Sunday the 16th we went through another Indian vilage, we left the [re] early in the
                                    afternoon, drove about 7 miles from the river and campt grass was good no water
                                    except one cag we haled from the river, no wood.
                        17th we roled out beautifull road about 6 miles and come to a small spring also a
                                    blacksmith and another Indian vilage and trading house, there was no water for our
                                    cattle, there was some pine timber here, we drove on and got water for our cattle at
                                    three oclock in the afternoon then drove six miles farther and come to good grass,
                                    but little wood river water as usual
                        June 18th we come in sight of snow, near 100 miles of us, we also come to one trading
                                    house build of dride brick or clay, drove 20 miles and campt in the river bottom 10
                                    miles from Fort Lawrame10 some grass no wood, light showers of
                                    rain in the evening
                        19th we crosed lawrame fork of plat river at noon, it was 100 yards wide and over the
                                    fore wheel of our wagon and run verry swift, we raised our provisions on the upper
                                    bottom of the bed and roled over dry and safe, the fort was situated in the fork of
                                    the river there was 10 or 12 buildings, some of them frame but most of them built of
                                    dride brick there was one sawmill, run by mules, one store, whiskey was worth six
                                    dollars per gallon other things in proportion, we drove 6 miles past the fort and
                                    campt grass was short no wood.
                        20th we drove over some verry rough hills in the morning come to 
                              
                                 10 Fort Laramie was about 300 miles west of Fort
                                            Kearney. It is in the eastern part of the present state of Wyoming about 80
                                            miles north of Cheyenne.
                           
                                     a warm spring at noon drove ten miles farther
                                    and campt on dead timber creek, plenty of wood water and the best of grass
                        21st we drove 18 miles over some hilly roads, crosed a creek at noon, campt on a
                                    small branch, good grass some wood there was a light hail storm in the evening.
                        22nd we drove till noon over hills and hollows, stopt one hour on a small creek drove
                                    10 miles farther over hills of red sand and rock, campt in the hills drove our
                                    cattle 2 miles to grass but little wood.
                        23 we drove 20 miles over hilly road and crosed three creeks, and campt on a small
                                    river 30 feet wide one deep plenty of grass 1 1/2 miles up the stream
                        24th we drove four miles farther and come to the river again drove five miles up the
                                    river to deer creek 20 feet wide one deep, drove two miles up the creek and campt
                                    our cattle being verry tirde and some of them lame we lay here one day and a half
                                    grass tolerble good some wood and some fish in the creek.
                        25th we had rain nearly all day we kept in our tents and wagons.
                        26th we drove 20 miles crosed diferent creeks, campt on one drove our cattle 2 miles
                                    up it to grass, but little wood, light showers of rain in the evening
                        27th we drove 10 miles farther to the upper ferry on plat river,11 crosed in the afternoon ferryage five dollars per wagon, swum our cattle,
                                    the river was 150 yards wide and deep also verry swift drove out 4 miles in the
                                    evening and campt on a ridge grass was verry short and thin no wood, some wild sage
                                    which answered in the place of wood we had light hail storm in the evening.
                        28th we hooked up early drove 24 miles without water no grass we then rested one hour
                                    let our cattle drink at a spring branch which was verry muddy by the quantity of
                                    cattle tramping the ground got supper and hooked up again at dark drove five miles
                                    farther against ten oclock no grass yet, we tied our cattle to the stakes, till next
                                    morning
                        29th we hooked up at 4 oclock drove 20 miles farther against 1 oclock in the
                                    afternoon before we come to grass, campt on sweet water [Sweetwater River] 2 miles
                                    from the devles hole,12 drove our cattle 1% miles from the road
                                    to grass, we have passed alcaly springs for the last 2 days that would kill cattle
                                    in a few minutes that got to the water, also pased a saleratis lake, the saleratis
                                    lay on top of the water resembling ice but when lifted out and dride become white as
                                    snow, it was about one inch thick three or four acres in the lake
                        June 30th we hooked up at noon drove two miles and came to the devles hole where the
                                    creek run through the hill of rocks about 300 feet deep and about 100 yards wide at
                                    the top about 50 yards wide in the bed of the creek, the road went around the hill
                                    and was not hilly but verry sandy, we drove till 10 oclock at night before we come
                                    to grass, got grass 1 mile from the road no wood but plenty of wild sage.
                        
                           
                              11 The North Platte River flows northward from its source
                                        to the junction with the Sweetwater where it turns eastward. The Sweetwater
                                        flows eastward from South Pass. For this reason the trail crossed the North
                                        Platte and passed up the Sweetwater.
                           
                              12 Usually called Devil's Gap or Devil's
                                        Gate, a canyon cut through a granite ridge by the Sweetwater.
                        
                        
                        July 1st we hooked up at 9 oclock drove till noon rested one hour, we then drove on,
                                    our men that went on ahead of the teams to hunt grass found some, some distance from
                                    the road, struck back to the road to turn the wagons but come in behind the wagons,
                                    we drove on come to no grass, left the river in the evening, and drove till 11
                                    oclock at night before we come to water or grass our men caught up with us one hour
                                    before we got through.
                        2nd we travled five miles and come to good grass we campt the balance of the day.
                        3rd we traveled 19 miles 16 without water, crosed sweet watter once and campt on it
                                    grass was scarce plenty of wild sage.
                        4th hooked up crosed sweet water twise drove 14 miles over hilly and rocky road campt
                                    at 4 oclock drove one mile of the road to grass there was plenty of snow a few rods
                                    from the grass under the hill, we campt by a cool spring and had snow in the place
                                    of ice to cool our brandy.
                        5th we seen plenty of snow, drove 20 miles crosed two creeks branches of sweetwatter
                                    campt by a bank of snow grass was good no wood but plenty of wild sage.
                        July 6th we drove 6 miles went through the south pass13 of the
                                    rocky mountains the road was beautifull and nearly level, three miles farther to
                                    pacific springs drove five miles down the pacific creek14 and
                                    campt, grass short, bad water, we left one steer by being lame
                        7th drove 16 miles over a small desart or sand plain to little sandy creek, drove 5
                                    miles up the creek to grass, grass was good water plenty, plenty of willows and wild
                                    sage, we left the salt lake road at noon.
                        8th we drove six miles to big sand [Big Sandy River] the road was nothing but dust
                                    and sand drove 4 miles up the creek to grass, creek 3 rods wide one foot deep.
                        9th at 1/2 past ten oclock we started through the green river desart, 50 miles we
                                    filled up our water vessels, about 20 gallons, drove till 1 oclock rested 1/2 hour
                                    eat a few bites then drove till 7 rested one hour and got supper, then drove till
                                    midnight rested 1/2 hour then drove till 3 oclock rested till four then drove till 7
                                    give the cattle what water we had left about one gallon each, the road has been
                                    level but verry dusty about shoe mouth deep and as light as lime, and smelt of lime
                                    and I believe was partly lime.
                        at twelve oclock the 10th we got to green river ferry watered and rested our cattle 4
                                    hours till our turn come to cross in the boat paid 7 dollars for ferrying our wagon
                                    over, swum our cattle and drove about five miles to grass, the grass was short no
                                    wood but little sage 
                              
                                 13 South Pass, a very famous pass of the Rocky
                                            Mountains, is in west-central Wyoming. Though about 7500 feet above sea
                                            level, this Pass is not high in relation to the adjacent gentle dopes. Two
                                            travelers who went over the Pass in 1843, wrote: "Both the ascent
                                            and descent were so gradual, that had we not been told, we should have
                                            passed over the dividing ridge in the Rocky Mountains without knowing
                                            it." See Route across the Rocky Mountains by
                                            Overton Johnson and William H. Winter (reprint of 1932), 22.
                              
                                 14 Pacific Creek flows southwestward from South Pass.
                                            Its waters find their way to the Green River via the Sandy
                                            River. Green River is a tributary of the 
                                                Colorado
                                             which discharges into the Gulf of 
                                                California
                                            .
                           
                                     11th we drove 7 miles grass was cours water
                                    scarce sage plenty road good.
                        12th we drove five miles farther come to good grass water and fur timber, our cattle
                                    being tired we stop the remainder of the day.
                        13th we still lay still to rest our cattle
                        14th we moved 10 miles farther over verry hilly and rough road
                        15 we roled over some of the bear river mountains crosed one creek come through a
                                    beautifull grove of fur timber in the evening campt close to a beautifull branch
                                    good grass and water plenty of sage days drive 20 miles part of our company
                                    commenced packing this morning also pased the devles ladder it was about 20 feet
                                    nearly perpendicular wher wagons used to be let down by ropes and cattle unyoked to
                                    get down, but the road goes about one mile around now but is verry steep still.
                        16th we roled over another mountain and come to bear river at noon, rested 1/2 hours
                                    then roled on down the river in the evening we crosed three verry swift creeks,
                                    within 1/2 mile the water was over belly deep in each, we upset our wagon at the
                                    bank after we had crosed the last one, broke nothing but a few bottols, one of
                                    pickles which was the most loss we went over some verry rough road for 1/4 of a mile
                                    after we crosed the creek, then drove 2 miles farther campt on a beautifull branch
                                    good grass water and wood.
                        17th we drove 18 miles crossed one creek 2 rods wide 3 feet deep made a short turn
                                    around a bend of bear river, then took the bluffs campt in the hills, grass was good
                                    water plenty no wood some sage.
                        18th road hilly in the morning, come down a verry steep hill and got to bear river
                                    again at noon, beautifull road in the afternoon campt on a spring branch good grass
                                    some wood.
                        19th we come to a french and Indian trading vilage. they had horses and oxen that was
                                    rested to trade for others that was nearly give out, they also had liquors at one
                                    dollar per pint, we campt by a large spring grass was good, some willow brush, one
                                    snake Indian stayed all night with us, he was friendly and peacible we give him as
                                    much as he could eat.
                        20th fine road we come to the soda springs15 at noon there was
                                    another french and Indian trading post here, there was a fine shower of rain it
                                    lasted for one hour, the first we have had for one month, there was also a boiling
                                    spring here, it foamed like a pot, but yet was cool, also a steamboat spring which
                                    come out of a hole in the rock about three inches in diameter it throwed the water
                                    from three to four feet high, once about every four of five seconds, the water was
                                    warm. the soda water sparkled some, and was sower but not palateable we drove about
                                    two miles in the afternoon and campt on bear river bank good grass plenty of wood by
                                    swiming the river about 100 yards wide
                        Sunday the 21st we drove two miles and come to the forks of the cutoff and fort hall
                                    road, we took the fort hall16 road because it was used the least
                                    and we thought grass would be the best, we come to 
                              
                                 15 Soda Springs is a town in what is now southeastern 
                                                Idaho
                                             about fifty miles southeast of Fort Hall.
                              
                                 16 That is, they decided to go farther north (60
                                            miles) to Fort Hall before turning westward.
                           
                                     another large soda spring in the forenoon at 2
                                    oclock we come to a beautifull branch and good grass, we loosed our cattle and let
                                    them eat one hour or more then hooked up and drove on good road, in the evening our
                                    cattle began to get sick they would rase their cood and throw it out on the ground,
                                    we drove about one mile in this way and come to a creek and campt, we give each of
                                    our steers about one pound of fat meat, they would not eat any, good water grass and
                                    some willow brush.
                        22nd our cattle was better and eating, we lay by all day for fear of hurting our
                                    teems by driving.
                        23d we hooked up and drove up the creek four of five miles and crosed it, it was very
                                    muddy and bad to cross. I saw one man get trowed [thrown] over a mules head by it
                                    sticking in the mud. he lit on his hands and feet in the mud up to his belly, we
                                    then went over a mountain and campt in the valley of Snake river, plenty of grass
                                    good water and dead cotton wood poles, which made it a first rate place to camp.
                        24th we hooked up and drove down the branch, crosed it different times, it was bad to
                                    cross, on the account of mud and steep banks, in the afternoon we struck into a sand
                                    plain, which was verry heavy drawing it was seven miles across, we then come to a
                                    creek and campt five miles from fort hall, good grass water and willow brush we had
                                    a fine shower of rain at dark which laid the dust.
                        25th we crosed different muddy branches in the morning we come to fort hall at 9
                                    oclock there was butter and chickens for sale here chickens five dollars each,
                                    butter one dollar per pound we did not buy any, I saw potatoes growing verry nice
                                    here, they were out in bloom, we drove on, fine road, we crossed a branch of snake
                                    river in the afternoon, it was one hundred yards wide, and half way up on our wagon
                                    beds, we raised our load on top of the wagon beds and forded safe, we roled on and
                                    in the bottom of snake river17 water grass and sage was good,
                                    moskitoes plenty the first we have seen.
                        26th we drove down snake river about 20 miles, road some hilly in places, we come by
                                    one place the river had about thirty feet fall nearly perpendicular, in the evening
                                    we crosed one verry steep hollow but short campt on the bank of the river grass and
                                    water good some sage, there was a light shower of rain in the evening.
                        27th we roled on crossed three creeks bad to cross on the account of rough rocks,
                                    left the river in the afternoon, drove nine miles over a ridge campt on a creek at
                                    the forks of the Calliforna and 
                                        Oregon
                                     road,18 grass good creek water plenty, some fish,
                                    sage scarce
                        Sunday the 28th we drove up the creek about 12 miles crosed it once bad to cross on
                                    the account of mud and steep banks, campt a[t] one oclock grass wild wheat and curns
                                    plenty we gethered curns and made pies, plenty of willow brush for wood.
                        
                           
                              17 The trail westward from Fort Hall was down the Snake
                                        River Valley. From Fort Hall to the Raft River, a tributary of the Snake, those
                                        bound for 
                                            Oregon
                                         and 
                                            California
                                         over the Fort Hall road used the same road.
                           
                              18 Near the mouth of the Raft River, about 80 miles west
                                        of Fort Hall, a road ran southward up the valley of that river to join the main 
                                            California
                                         Trail. This is where Williams and those with him
                                        who were en route to 
                                            California
                                         must have left the 
                                            Oregon
                                         Trail.
                        
                        
                        29th we roled two miles crossed the creek muddy crossing, drove till noon then come
                                    to the cut off road rested one hour in the afternoon we come up to two men that had
                                    been making their way on foot one of them had took sick and dide under some willow
                                    bushes the other had his grave dug, some of us that could be spared from the teems
                                    stopt and helpt him to bury the dead man. in the evening we crosed the creek creek
                                    again drove two miles farther campt on a beautifull branch grass was good we got
                                    some peaces of wagon that had been left that answered for wood road fine and level
                        30th we drove about 10 miles over a ridge rested one hour on a branch some grass, in
                                    the afternoon we drove in to the hills there was a great many verry large rock some
                                    of them 200 feet high, we come into the salt lake road19 in the
                                    evening, we drove about five miles farther and campt at sun down grass was good
                                    water scarce sage scarce and a poor place to camp
                        July 31st we come over some verry rough steep hills nooned on a branch good water no
                                    grass drove over some verry steep hills in the afternoon campt on goose vreek grass
                                    and water good sage plenty, there is men passing us now daily their teams has give
                                    out some has had their horses stole and they are obliged to try it on foot they are
                                    generlly scarce of provision and we have none to spare.
                        August the 1st there was ice % of an inch thick this morning in buckets,
                                    we travled about 15 miles up the creek crossed one verry muddy branch road good
                                    campt of the creek bank grass good willow brush plenty.
                        2nd we left the creek in the morning and went up a spring branch about five miles
                                    crosed the branch muddy crossing, and left it drove over a ridge about 12 miles and
                                    come to thousand spring valley then campt plenty of spring water drove our cattle
                                    two miles to grass some sage, grass was thin but short.
                        3rd we left the springs drove about 12 miles down the valley, thence over a ridge of
                                    three four miles to cold water creek but no water, drove up the creek about 3 miles
                                    found some water standing in holes watered our cattle and rested one hour, and then
                                    drove about five miles farther up the creek, water plenty standing in holes along
                                    the creek and verry cold, then campt wild wheat plenty some grass some wild sage
                                    road good but dusty.
                        Sunday the 4th we drove about eight miles up the creek and come to, the hot springs,
                                    the water was so hot that we could not bear our hands in it, we stopt one hour above
                                    the hot spring, plenty of cool running water in the creek grass good, the hot
                                    springs covered nearly 1/4 of an acre of ground, the water boiled up in the black
                                    ground in places which made a branch three feet wide 3 or 4 inches deep the smell
                                    was verry disagreeable, we then drove about one mile farther up the creek and left
                                    it, followed up a spring branch of a gradual ascent for about six miles then over
                                    one hill about four miles, then four miles farther down a valley to grass and water,
                                    we then campt at nine oclock at night on the head waters of marys river good water
                                    grass and sage.
                        5th we roled out at 7 oclock drove four miles and come to a creek 
                              
                                 19 The road from Salt Lake City which passed around
                                            the northern end of the Lake.
                           
                                     erosed it bad to cross drove four miles farther
                                    down the [creek] and crosed it seven times the road was verry rough and rocky drove
                                    two miles farther and got out of the canon and rested one hour good grass and water
                                    we travled about 10 miles down the bottom the creek sunk and rased again every two
                                    or three miles campt on the creek bank standing water plenty grass scarce, some
                                    sage.
                        6th a beautifull morning and some appearance of rain we roled on down the bottom
                                    about nine miles and come to another fork of the creek crossed it one rod wide 15
                                    inches deep gravelly bottom rested one hour good grass, in the afternoon we travled
                                    about 10 miles down the river and campt on the bank good water grass clover and
                                    willow brush river two rods wide four feet deep
                        7th we travled 11 miles down the river good grass all the way, then crosed a creek 20
                                    feet wide two feet deep, the bottom was then narrow we then travled over some small
                                    hills for six miles and then campt grass not verry good willow brush plenty
                        8th we drove about 18 miles down the river good grass all the way down campt on the
                                    river bank drove our cattle across to grass plenty of willows
                        9th we drove five miles and crosed the river it was 20 yards wide and up to our
                                    wagonbeds we also come to salt lake cut off road,20 we then
                                    drove 2 miles farther and crosed the river again, drove 2 miles then drove 2 miles
                                    farther and crosed the river the third time grass was all the way from the first
                                    crossing drove one mile farther and crosed the river the fourth time the bluffs was
                                    between three and four hundred feet high nearly perpendicular on both sides then
                                    drove two miles farther the bottom getting wider and grass good we campt at two
                                    oclock and rested the remainder of the day
                        10th we drove five miles down the river crosed three small creeks then took the hills
                                    drove 6 miles and come to a small spring watered a little and drove four miles
                                    farther to the sumet of the ridge drove one mile farther and come to some springs
                                    drove six miles farther and come to the river road was some rough and verry dusty at
                                    last end of the days travel then drove two miles down the river and crosed it once
                                    and campt grass was verry poor willow brush plenty.
                        11th we travled 17 miles down the river good grass all the way timber scarce, parts
                                    of the road verry dusty about 8 inches deep campt on a slough near the river feed
                                    good, plenty of willow brush.
                        12th drove about 20 miles down the valley there was no grass or water near the road,
                                    in the evening we drove to the river and campt plenty of grass and willow brush.
                        13th the day being verry warm we travled about 15 miles down the river the road was
                                    level but verry dusty, campt on the river bank grass poor willow brush plenty
                        14th we drove 7 miles north west thence 8 miles south west campt on the river bank
                                    good grass willow brush scarce.
                        
                           
                              20 On July 27 (1850). the caravan left the 
                                            Oregon
                                         Trail near the mouth of the Raft River. The movement was then south
                                        and southwest to the Humbolt River. The cut-off trail from Salt Lake City,
                                        passing south of Great Salt Lake reached the Trail coming from the Snake River
                                        about 75 miles directly west of the Lake and about 140 miles from Salt Lake
                                        City.
                        
                        
                        15th in the morning we drove 4 miles over the point of a mountain then come to the
                                    river drove 19 miles down the river21 campt on the bank good
                                    grass.
                        16th we travled about 19 miles part of the way over verry sandy road, campt on the
                                    river bank, grass scarce and wood to.
                        17th we travled about 17 miles parts of the road verry dusty come to a ferry at noon
                                    but did not cross kept down the south side of the river in the evening campt on the
                                    river bank grass and water good willows small.
                        Sunday the 18th we drove about 20 miles with out water for our cattle the most of the
                                    road verry dusty but the day being cool our stalk did not suffer much campt on the
                                    river bank grass short wood scarce,
                        19th we drove 14 miles over verry dusty roads campt on the river bottom grass poor
                                    willow brush small and good spring watter which we have not had for some time past.
                        20th in the morning we took one german girl in our company who by the loss of friends
                                    and misfortunes of this trip was left nearly alone without teem or provisions, we
                                    then drove about 10 miles down the river bank road verry dusty campt at one oclock
                                    in the afternoon, grass scarce willows and sage plenty
                        21st we drove about 14 miles down the valley road verry dusty campt on the edge of
                                    the slough above the sink or lake grass and rushes plenty willows and sage brush
                                    verry small and scarce, water brackish, we dug some holes about 3 feet deep for
                                    water and got plenty of it but so salt that we could, not use it for anything, the
                                    country for miles around is verry level and no vegittation growing except where the
                                    water is standing
                        22nd we drove 10 miles down the slough the road is verry level and soled [solid] with
                                    the exception of a few places where there was some mud we campt at noon on the edge
                                    of the slough and cut grass and rushes to do our cattle across the desert, grass was
                                    plenty we did mow a good swath willows there was none sage was verry scarce and
                                    small.
                        23rd we hooked up at half past 7 oclock in the morning drove 8 miles down the lake
                                    watered our cattle and rested one hour then drove four miles farther against 3
                                    oclock which brought us to the lower end of the lake or sink, we then rested our
                                    cattle till half-past 5 oclock then watered our stalk filled up our water vessles
                                    which held about 25 gallons, we then roled out for across the desert, the road was
                                    beautifull level and soled as a pike we roled on till half past 11 oclock then
                                    rested one hour gethered some sage brush [Aug. 24] and made a cup of tea and eat a
                                    chesk [cheese] we then roled on till half past five in the morning we then give our
                                    cattle what grass and water we had for them built a fire of the wagons that was left
                                    and got breakfast we now see dead stalk all the time and wagons left as many [as] 6
                                    to ten in a place, we roled on at half past 7 oclock at nine oclock we come to verry
                                    heavy sandy roads which lasted till we got through to Carson river, we rested one
                                    hour at noon and then roled on at 4 oclock we got to Carson river22 no 
                              
                                 21 They were now on the long stretch of the Trail
                                            which followed the Humbolt River.
                              
                                 22 The Carson River is in what is now western Nevada.
                                            It flows northeast from the Sierra Nevada Mountains to Carson Lake or Carson
                                            Sink, which is, a few miles south-east of Humbolt Sink into which the
                                            westward flowing Humbolt River discharges.
                           
                                     grass but plenty of willow brous [browse] we
                                    got our cattle all over safe it was said by one man that counted the dead stalk and
                                    waggons that there was one thousand head cattle 1400 horses and mules, and 1000
                                    wagons left on the desert a distance of forty miles.
                        25th we drove five miles up the river passed different provision stores, flower was 2
                                    dollars per lb, bacon one dollar per lb. sugar 1.50 cents per lb, we campt on the
                                    river bank at ten oclock grass was short willow brous plenty and some cotton wood
                                    timber, we rested our stalk the balance of the day
                        26th we drove 14 miles up the river went across a desert of 12 miles then come to the
                                    river again the road was rocky and rough in places, we campt on the river bank grass
                                    was good wood plenty.
                        27 we travled 15 miles on the river road, 10 miles of the way over verry sandy road
                                    campt on the river bank under a few large cotton wood trees the first shade trees we
                                    have had for months plenty of good river water grass knee high of the best quality.
                        28th we travled 15 miles up the river crosed it at noon the road was rough sandy and
                                    dusty in places campt on the river bank grass not verry good wood plenty.
                        29 drove 8 miles and crosed the river there was provisions at this point flower was
                                    1.25 cents per lb, sugar the same, pies one dollar each, we stopt till evening, then
                                    starting out at dark across a desert of ten miles, drove till three oclock the next
                                    morning a night travel of 15 miles then campt grass was short willows plenty.
                        30th we drove 7 miles across a desert come to the river at noon, campt grass and
                                    water good plenty of sage for wood pack train selling flower one dollar per lb, pork
                                    1,25 per lb.
                        31st this morning is verry cool we roled on up the river bottom beautiful spring
                                    branches crossing the road every mile or two running from the mountains beautiful
                                    road bottom covered with wild clover and grass, the mountains covered with pine
                                    timber the top covered with snow, there is gold mines in the mountains here but not
                                    found plenty enough yet to be prophitable plenty of provisions for sale here flower
                                    one dollar per lb, we bought 10 pounds flower, sugar 1.25 cents, rice 1.25 cents
                                    brandy 50 cents per drink campt out from the river on a branch good grass wood and
                                    water day drive 16 miles.
                        Sept the 1st, drove 5 miles and campt by a branch of cool water good grass wood and
                                    shade trees 8 miles from the carson river canion we bought sugar at 1.25 cents per
                                    lb brandy at 1.25 cents per pint
                        2nd we rolled out got to the cannon at 11 oclock, we drove on through the cannon a
                                    distance of 8 miles the roughest road we have had on the trip, then drove one mile
                                    further and campt good grass and water one mile from the road plenty of cedar wood
                        3rd we travled eight miles up the creek parts of the road was verry rough and rocky
                                    thence one mile up the first Sirre Nevada mountain23 the
                                    steepest and roughest road I ever seen before thence three miles down the mountain
                                    to a small valley where we campt drove our 
                              
                                 22 Since the Sierra Nevada Mountains were reached on
                                            September 3, the trip from the 
                                                Missouri
                                             River (crossed May 18th) to the Sierras had requried 109
                                        days.
                           
                                     cattle one and a half mile to grass plenty of
                                    snow a short distance from us plenty of wood and water
                        4th we drove five miles to the top of another mountain parts of the road rough and
                                    steep, and parts covered with snow as much as 12 feet deep, thence seven miles down
                                    a divide parts of the road rough through heavy pine and cedar timber campt close to
                                    a spring or small branch drove our cattle two miles to a valley to grass, and bought
                                    flower at 37% cents per lb.
                        5th we drove eight miles over hilly road, come to good grass at two oclock campt
                                    drove our cattle one mile to grass.
                        6th we cut some grass in the morning and roled out at half past ten drove eight miles
                                    over hills then come to sink springs and campt no grass but there was some willow
                                    brous and wild onions, there was different trading posts here flower 20 cts beef 50
                                    cents pies one dollar each
                        Sept 7th we travled 12 miles over verry hilly road rocky in places large pines two or
                                    three hundred feet high and plenty of them, then we come to water watered our stalk
                                    and rested one hour then roled out again travled three miles up a large hill then
                                    the girl that was in our train got shot by a gun going off in a wagon that was a
                                    short distance before our company it was said to go off by the wagon jolting over
                                    the rocks, the girl did not get bad hurt as there was only two shot that struck her
                                    one on the side of her neck just cutting the skin the other in one breast but stopt
                                    against a rib or was said to by the doctor we had to camp there on the top of a
                                    mountain as the girl was bad scared and considerable hurt we was there without water
                                    or grass we drove our cattle about a mile to some bushes and let them brouse that
                                    night and carried our water two miles to cook with
                        8th the girl said she could stand it to ride in the wagon we hooked up and roled
                                    three miles to water part of the road verry rough thence nine miles further over
                                    hilly rocky and dusty roads we then come to water and campt there was no grass we
                                    had a little that we had hailed for four days we give it to our stalk and cut
                                    blackoak timber for our stalk to brouse at,
                        9th we travled 10 miles campt in pleasant valley, cut black and bur oak timber for
                                    our cattle to brouse at the timber was verry full of mast, the road was very dusty
                        10th we travled ten miles and was in weaver town in the gold mines, the show for
                                    mining did look dull here as there was but verry little water and a man for every 10
                                    feet square of mining ground we drove two miles farther toward Sac city24 and campt at diamond springs there was a little dry grass hay
                                    worth 15 cents per lb, we cut some oak timber for our stalk but the cattle would not
                                    eat it,
                        11th we drove eighteen miles good road some dusty campt by a spring plenty of dry
                                    grass and oak timber rather scrubby
                        12th we drove 20 miles through a prairie country there was some scruby oak timber the
                                    road was good, we campt on the Amerrican river 10 miles from Sac city plenty of
                                    willows and dry grass
                        
                           
                              24 Sao City, a name applied to 
                                            Sacramento
                                        .
                        
                        
                        13th we got to Sac city at noon beautiful road drove a little below town and campt
                                    grass was short and willows was plenty
                        14 we lade in load of provisions,
                        Sunday the 15th we lay by still resting our cattle gambleing was carried on to a high
                                    degree in this city
                        16 we left the City at noon crosed the American river drove four miles farther and
                                    campt on dry creek good dry grass but little water and wood
                        17th we drove 17 miles beautifull road campt on a small lake good grass plenty of
                                    water but little wood
                        18th drove six miles and crosed bear river at Nichlous [Nicolaus] thence eight
                                    farther and campt on feather river good grass plenty of wood and water
                        19th drove eight miles farther and crosed the Yuba river at Maryesvile25 thence six miles up the Yuba river and campt good grass water and wood
                        20th we drove ten miles farther up the river and campt on parks bar where we stayed
                                    six months [to] April 20, 1851 thence to grass valley26 Nevada
                                    Co where we stayed till we got our pile.27
                        
                        
                           
                              25 Marysville, about 40 miles north of 
                                            Sacramento
                                         on the Yuba River.
                           
                              26 Grass Valley, about 80 miles east and a little north of
                                        Marysville, not far from Nevada City. As stated in the foreword, the last two
                                        lines of the diary had to be written some time after the events mentioned.
                           
                              27 Perhaps some of our readers will be interested in
                                        comparing this diary of John T. Williams with that of Taylor Snow which was
                                        published in the Indiana Magazine of History (Sept., 1932),
                                        XXVIII, 196–209. Mr. Snow, who probably lost his life in Humbolt
                                        Valley, made the trip from Indiana nine years after that of Mr. Williams. Much
                                        of the way the routes were the same.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages
            BEGINNINGS OF A POSSIBLE AUTOBIOGRAPHY1
            
            By a Man of Common Clay
            IV
            Delphi, named after the famed little city of 
                        Greece
                     that nestled in the shadows of Mount Parnassus, is not far from the 
                        Wabash
                     and the 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . Deer Creek which flows along the southern edge of the town, enters the 
                        Wabash
                     less than a mile away. The setting is fine and the little city of homes is beautiful
                    and healthful. The Hoosier poet, once caught the charm of the place and wrote:
                        On the Banks o' Deer Crick! There's the place fer me!—Worter
                            slidin' past ye jes' as clair as it kin be:—See yer shadder in
                            it, and the shadder o' the sky, And the shadder o' the buzzard as he goes
                            a-lazin by; Shadder o' the pizen-yines, and shadder o' the
                            trees—And I purt' nigh said the shadder o' the sunshine and the
                            breeze! Wall!—I never seen the ocean ner I never seen the sea.—On the
                            banks o' Deer Crick's grand enough fer me!
                    
            
            The south bluff of Deer Creek is but a few rods from the stream. The Prince William Road, called the
                    "Plank Road" for many years after all planks had disappeared, descended the hill
                    by a terrace constructed along the bluff from top to base.2 A sharp turn at the
                    lower end of the incline brought one to the levee that crossed the narrow stretch of bottom land to
                    the covered-bridge. This pioneer wooden structure carried not only the traffic of the Prince William
                    Road (Delphi to 
                        Frankfort
                    ), but also that of the 
                        Dayton
                     Road for many years.3 The sides of the bridge were completely
                    covered and the light came in at the ends. It was not a long bridge, but on cloudy, moonless nights,
                    the passage was dark indeed. One 
                  
                     1 The first three installments of this autobiography appeared serially
                            in the March, June and September issues of this year. The present installment ends the
                            series, it being the purpose to publish only the "Beginnings" of a
                            possible autobiography in the Indiana Magazine of History.
                  
                  
                     2 For many years the hill was steep and dangerous, and was merely
                            surfaced with gravel. In time the grade was mode more gradual by elevating the levee across
                            the bottom lands to the bridge. At this time, about twenty years ago, the old road down the
                            hillside was given a hard surface and a new hard surfaced road was constructed up the ravine
                            that cut through the bluff at a right angle and reached the levee at the bottom of the
                            incline. Recently the terrace road up the hillside has practically given way to a thoroughly
                            modern road that follows the ravine.
                  
                     3 A bridge across Deer Creek, a few blocks west of the bridge that
                            replaced the old covered bridge, was constructed a few years earlier (1891) to carry the 
                                Dayton
                             Road traffic in and out of the city at the southwest, near the 
                                Wabash
                             Railway.
               
                     could always see a lighter space at the opposite end of the
                    bridge, and he simply headed for the middle of that space as he walked or drove into the deep
                    blackness and hoped for the best.
            In times of drouth, Deer Creek carries a small volume of water, but high water means a booming river.
                    There have been ice gorges during late winter thaws that have produced heavy floods with water
                    rising high over the low-lands on each side of the stream. Several times the old covered-bridge was
                    threatened by an ice jam, but it never went out. It was replaced by the present bridge during the
                    panic of 1893. The cost of the substantial new bridge would be considered low now, but tax-burdened
                    citizens of that period of depression heaped imprecations on the heads of the county commissioners
                    who let the contract.
            The iron bridge across the 
                        Wabash
                     at Pittsburg, a mile west of Delphi, abandoned but a few months ago, served two
                    generations well. It was built before my time and was on old bridge in 1900. The bluffs above the 
                        Wabash
                     at Pittsburg and the south bluff of Deer Creek, would have served well as aristocratic
                    residence districts, had Delphi expanded and become a large city. South Delphi on the level area
                    above the south bluff of the Creek developed early, but neither this suburban area nor the town
                    proper have changed much in population during the past sixty years. In fact, the County of Carroll
                    has much the same history. It is and has been always an agricuutural County with an almost
                    stationary population.4 Since the average number in a family has been fairly
                    high, this means that year by year, a part of those born in the County have gone elsewhere in
                    pursuit of homes and opportunities. The poet's idea is attractive, but for a large portion
                    of those born in such an area, conditions that make for an unchanging population absolutely prevent
                    the acceptance in practice of any such slogan as "On the banks o' Deer
                    Crick's grand enough for me!"
            The summer of 1885, I have never forgotten. My mother and certain associates had lodged the idea in
                    my mind that I should go to high school. Strange to say, teachers had said 
                  
                     4 The population as indicated in the 
                                United States
                             Census reports has run as follows: 1880, 18,346; 1890, 20,221; 1900, 19,953;
                            1910, 19,710; 1920, 16,315; 1930, 15,049. The city of Delphi: 1880, 2,040; 1890, 1,923;
                            1900, 2,135; 1910, 2,161; 1920, 2,087; 1930, 1,929.
               
                     little about such a possiblity.5 I had
                    heard the County Superintendent, Barton 
                        Warren
                     Everman, afterwards 
                        United States
                     Fish Commissioner, speak briefly on the school system of Indiana, stressing the fact
                    that tuition was free in the common schools, in the high schools, and in the State University.
                    Having passed the state examination, provided for the purpose, I was given a certificate that
                    entitled me to enter a commissioned high school. I wanted to go. No boy or girl had as yet attended
                    the Delphi high school from any home so far south of the city,6 but two young
                    men, Thomas Foley and William Whittaker, who lived a little over a mile nearer the city, had taken
                    the course and received their diplomas.7 I knew about this and it impressed me
                    deeply. In addition, an older boy, Henry Mohr, who lived with the Widener family at the crossroads
                    west of our schoolhouse and just south of the blacksmith shop, was planning to enter high school. He
                    spoke to me about the matter a few times, telling me that I must surely go with him.
            My mother decided that I should talk with my father about it. She thought it would be good for me to
                    do so. My father said nothing to me about it, and I could not explain his silence. Probably he
                    likewise believed that I ought to be permitted to bring up the subject. Morning after morning,
                    through that summer of 1885, I would start the day resolved to speak out, but somehow I could not
                    get started. The weeks passed and finally the second Monday in September, the day for the opening of
                    the Delphi schools, arrived. I suppose that my parents had been discussing the important problem
                    without coming to a final decision. I know that my father had on Saturday learned from Henry Mohr
                    that the tuition, since I lived outside the city, would be seven dollars per quarter, and that the
                    books needed by a freshman would cost and equal amount or more. At breakfast (which came at an early
                    hour), I learned on that fateful morning that I was to go to high 
                  
                     5 Since it was a rare thing, as yet, for any one to attend high school
                            from the country, the habit of keeping the matter before pupils had not yet been formed by
                            the teachers in rural schools. It seems a far-cry from that day to this when in almost every
                            country family, the children are expected to go to high school as a matter of course.
                  
                     6 On the 
                                Dayton
                             Road which runs south from Delphi, Burton Calvert, a youth who lived about the
                            same distance from the city as I, had earlier attended the Delphi high school.
                  
                     7 Thomas Foley was the son of the cooper who lived a little way north
                            of the cross-roads. After completing his high school course, he became a photographer.
                            William Whittaker made his home with the family of Adam Sines who lived on a farm just east
                            of the Foley home. He taught the local school one year, then served as a deputy in the
                            county auditor's office. Later he was Assistant Warden of the prison at 
                                Michigan
                             City. Still later he was at the head of a similar institution in 
                                New Jersey
                            .
               
                     school. To me that seemed a matter of tremendous importance.8
            
            After I was ready, I went, dinner-pail in hand, to find my father, who, I discovered, was loading
                    some two-bushel sacks of wheat into the wagon. In answer to my question, he told me that the grain
                    was to be sold to pay my tuition and buy my books. We reached the city very close to eight
                    o'clock, sold the wheat, made our way to the school building, and soon found ourselves in
                    the office of the school Superintendent, Mr. A.W. Dunkle. He explained that I might have a choice
                    between a Latin Course and an English Course. The subjects making up the two courses were the same,
                    except that, if one embarked on the English Course, he would have no Latin while going through the
                    high school, other subjects being substituted. A review of English grammar would take the place of
                    Latin during the first year. Knowing that I had been "exposed" to grammar, my
                    father said with becoming dignity and poise: "It will be useless for him (meaning the young
                    hopeful sitting near him) to study anything that he has already taken." I was very
                    uncertain in regard to this statement, but the decision was to my liking. I was entered on the Latin
                    Course. Armed with the list of books to be procured, my father, taking me along, looked up the
                    Treasurer of the School Board and paid my tuition; then we went to Lytle's Drugstore for
                    the required texts: Ortons's Zoology, Swinton's General History, Jones' Latin Reader, Allen and
                    Greenough's Latin Grammar, and Hill's Rhetoric.
            
            I returned to the schoolhouse and my father drove back to the farm, almost four and a half miles
                    away. There is no place on earth where I know so well the meaning of that distance, since I walked
                    from home to school and back throughout the nine months of my freshman year.9
                    The attendance record of that year, if still in existence, will show that I was neither tardy nor
                    absent on any day. My birthday is September 10, so I had just turned fifteen when I began my high
                    school career. At that time, I was about five feet tall and weighed a little under a hundred pounds.
                    By the end of the 
                  
                     8 Perhaps this was because it was such an unusual thing to go to high
                            school from the country. I had the idea at any rate that my life would be ruined if I missed
                            the chance.
                  
                     9 During the year, I stayed in town only three or four nights in
                            all—one with ft junior and senior, Charles Wingard and Orth Humbert, country boys
                            who lived in two rooms and cared for themselves, and perhaps three nights with some
                            relatives of my father. Occasionally I was asked to ride with some one who was driving my
                            way in a buggy, spring-wagon, or an ordinary farm wagon, but I never asked for a
                        ride.
               
                     school year, I was nearly six inches taller, with about three
                    inches more to go. At the end of the second year, I weighed about one hundred twenty pounds and had
                    just about attained my full height of five feet, eight and one-half inches.
            The course in the Delphi high school then comprised three years, and the total number of students was
                    fifty or a few less. All were seated in the southeast room on the second floor of the old building,
                    razed only last month. One other room on the same floor was used by the high school as a recitation
                    room and laboratory. There was an unused room on the first floor, which a group of high school boys
                    who organized and paid fees were allowed to use as a gymnasium. I was treasurer of the association
                    during my junior year (There was no sophomore year). We had no organization during my senior year,
                    because the room was needed for an added grade teacher.
            All of the high school classes were taught by Superintendent Dunkle and the Principal, Mr. S.B.
                    McCracken. There were fourteen or fifteen classes daily, the Principal handling nine or ten and the
                    Superintendent the remaining number. The English Course made it necessary to provide two or three
                    extra classes each day, during each quarter for the three years, depending on the number of students
                    who did not take the Latin Course.10 During my three years, I pursued Latin
                    continuously, reading and grammar the firt year, then Caesar, and finally Virgil. Of science, zoology, geology, chemistry, physics, botany and astronomy was
                    the allotment. Steele's Fourteen Weeks in Geology, Fourteen Weeks in
                    Chemistry, and Fourteen Weeks in Astronomy, were the texts in the
                    corresponding fields. It need not be stated that each of these little texts covered a vast
                    territory. The other sciences listed got six months each. There was one course in history (general
                    European) which ran through the freshman year. Of mathematics, there was a year of algebra and
                    another of geometry and trigonometry.
            In English, there were courses in rhetoric and in the history of English Literature. English
                    composition came into vogue a few years later, as did the study of actual specimens of poetry and
                    literary prose. We studied matter about authors and their productions. In this respect, the few
                    students who 
                  
                     10 Out of my class of twenty-one members at the beginning, only three
                            chose the English Course. In the class just ahead, the Latin Students were very few. In the
                            senior class of 1885–1886, all were Latin students, I believe, the English Course
                            having been established in 1884.
               
                     selected the English Course reaped an advantage, for they
                    studied plays of Shakespeare during the second year, which were, I believe, ably taught by Principal
                    McCracken. While a freshman it was my good fortune to have a study period when the juniors, who had
                    nearly all chosen the English Course, were in the midst of the Shakespeare recitation. During that
                    period, as the months passed, I learned considerable about the plays of the Bard of 
                        Avon
                    . Hamlet, McBeth, King Lear, The Taming of the Shrew, The Tempest, As You
                        Like It—these masterpieces I became acquainted with on the side when I was
                    supposed to be studying regularly assigned lessons.
            Besides the subjects already mentioned, there was a short course in Civil Government, and another in
                    psychology. Brook's Mental Science was the volume studied. The human mind
                    was pretty thoroughly analyzed and its various functions definitely classified and separated. It was
                    in the last quarter of the senior year that this subject was on the boards. By this time, I was of
                    the opinion that one should not spend too much time in preparation of lessons. By exercising my
                    ingenuity, I found that I could read the assigned lesson in the text by Brooks in about a quarter of
                    an hour and reproduce all the points a few minutes later when the recitation occurred. Why waste
                    more time? This was getting by with the minimum amount of work, but it left time for other matters.
                    I must say, however, that the discussions—of the "memory", of the
                    "imagination", of the reasoning process"—really interested me a great
                    deal.
            Principal McCracken was at his best when reading orally, and fortunately he read a number of stories
                    to the entire school. For this exercise, he generally used an opening period of the day, about
                    twenty minutes in length. He did not as a rule read short stories, but books, some of which required
                    many days. He chose light, wholesome tales from sane writers and read them without comment. The
                    effect was good.
            As I look back to my high school days, I can see that a great deal of the information presented was
                    superficial and more or less inaccurate. Nevertheless, a good deal that was useful was acquired, and
                    somehow the several subjects taught introduced one to a larger and more interesting life. I would
                    not for a moment admit, however, that class-room work constituted more than a part of my education
                    from fifteen to eighteen. That was a period of fundamental changes in physical  and mental makeup, in social outlook, and in aims and desires. I
                    acquired vocabulary, thoughts, feelings, friendships, information from many sources, both in and out
                    of school. In those brief years, I crossed the bridge from simple, trusting childhood to immature
                    young manhood. The new stage was one towards which those years carried me much too
                    rapidly—a stage when life is very real in its promises and very baffling in its
                    uncertainties. It is a time when one knows both too much and too little.
            The transition was most marked in my freshman year; the next year was one of grater instability and
                    more uncertainty; in the last year, I was more steady and reliable.11 To reach
                    the school room before nine o'clock during that first year, I must rise early each morning
                    and be ready to start on my long walk by about seven-thiry. The whole family adjusted themselves to
                    my needs, and all went well. For a few days, I had a companion who walked with me for the last three
                    miles of the distance. By the middle of the second week, however, young Mohr decided that high
                    school was no place for him and dropped out without warning. He found the task of learning the
                    singular and plural forms of causa, in all the cases from nominative to ablative,
                    very difficult and gave up. His falling out was a real blow to me but I kept on.
            The closing hour of the afternoon session was at four o'clock in those days. The walk home
                    required a bit over an hour from the time when I parted from my last associates in South Delphi.
                    When the short days of December came, I was many times about a mile from home when
                    "darkness fell from the wings of night." It was three quarters of a mile from the
                    Widener home to the next which was but a little way north of our place. To make it worse, there was
                    a stretch of forest on the west side of the road and an old abandoned house just beyond it. To walk
                    alone in the dark along this lonesome section of the pike was not attractive, but after a week or
                    two, I became accustomed to it and it bothered me no more. It was not long after my appearance at
                    home on those winter 
                  
                     11 Grades were given out every month. During the freshman year my
                            rating was good. In some months my average was highest in the class. During the second year,
                            I started off poorly, and, though I made an effort to improve, I remained below the average
                            of the class. During my senior year, a foolish system of exemption from written examinations
                            was inaugurated. To avoid written tests, a freshman had to make an average of 91 per cent,
                            on his class work in any subject; for juniors the figure was 98; for seniors, 96. I took a
                            written test in one subject early in the year, and another in a different subject later in
                            the year. Otherwise, I received a grade of 95 or more, in each subject every month. I think
                            the system became pretty much of a farce in a short time, and I am sure it was a poor
                            experiment as a stimulus to good work on the part of students, though it was supposed to
                            result in better work.
               
                     evenings until supper was served. The long tramp from the city
                    after a fairly strenuous day stimulated my appetite. I was one of seven children, of whom one, the
                    eldest, was away teaching her first school.12 When we gathered around the table,
                    the circle was a charming one as I now picture it in retrospect. In the winter of
                    1885–1886, the youngest was but two years old while the four between her and myself
                    ranged from four to thirteen. The young schoolmistress was only eighteen, but we all viewed her with
                    pride and looked up to her with some awe. A school teacher seemed to us to be an important
                    personage. Several years passed before the family began to scatter, and, in those years, there were
                    many periods, when, for weeks at a time, all nine of the members of the family were together.
            During my second year in high school, my older sister also attended. In that day, there was
                    considerable variation in the ages of high school students, and it was not uncommon to find two or
                    three students in each class who were considerably beyond the normal age. A small apartment was
                    rented for us and my sister and I did light housekeeping. The following year this sister was out
                    teaching again13 and I found myself rooming with two other country boys. One,
                    Charles Schnepp, was a class-mate and the other, Abner Crowder, was in the class immediately below
                    us. We had three modest rooms up town, just over the rear portion of the old A. H. Bowen Bank. This
                    institution was on a corner, so our quarters fronted on a side street, and were reached by an
                    outside stairway. Each of us brought food (much of it already cooked) from home each Sunday. We
                    fared sumptuously until about Thursday of every week and then lived on reduced rations until leaving
                    on Friday evening. Even our fuel, in the form of stove-wood, was supplied by our fathers.
            While in the high school, I formed a fast and lasting friendship with Charles Best, whose father
                    George H.C. Best ran a tailor shop. Charles dropped out of school at the end of the eighth year to
                    learn the trade of his father, so we were never class-mates. Companionship with him was, however,
                    one of the finest things of my youthful days, and the tailor shop 
                  
                     12 In those days, and for a long time afterwards, it was only
                            necessary to obtain a teacher's license by taking a state examination to enter the
                            teaching profession. My sister (Flora May Lynch) taught a school in Deer Creek Township
                            (Belle View). We lived at the south edge of the Township and her school was about five miles
                            (north and east) from home.
                  
                     13 After teaching her second school, this older sister spent a year in
                            Jewell City, 
                                Kansas
                            , where she completed the course in the local high school. The five children
                            younger than myself were: Ida Jane, born in 1873; Albert LeRoy, born in 1877; Dorothy, born
                            in 1880; Bertha Eva, born in 1882; and Berneice Eveline, born in 1883.
               
                     was my loafing place whenever I was in Delphi for years to
                    come. The four or five journeymen tailors who worked in the back of the store were all my friends.
                    They were good citizens, with varying personalities, tastes, and views, and I enjoyed their
                    conversation and banter. That tailor shop was another real class room.
            There was no sharp separation between those who attended the grades and the high school. All were in
                    the same building and all shared the same playground. The boys who came from South Delphi were
                    called the "hillers," and since I lived farther out in the same direction, I was
                    somewhat closely associated with them, especially during my freshman year. I had not been in high
                    school ten days, when on the way out of town, as the gang divided at the foot of the hill,14 Frank Crawford, one of the "hillers," hailed me as
                    "Judge Lynch." The name stuck, and, for several years, most persons who knew me in
                    Delphi called me "Judge." There was nothing strange about this, as nearly everyone
                    had a nickname. Some of those that return to my mind readily were: 
                        Texas
                    , Sandles, Haner, Pikie, Thekus, Spick, Ruffian, Fishy, Windy, Biscuit, Dutch, Shorty,
                    Wid, and China.
            There was no basket-ball in those days. We played football, but it was a kicking game. Base-ball
                    games were played pretty much as now, but there were no school teams and no contests between one
                    school and another. There was a game called one-and-over, a sort of combination of jumping and
                    leapfrog that had quite a vogue. There was considerable wrestling with rules of our own. I often
                    engaged in this sport during my freshman year, and think I owe my strong back and legs largely to
                    the exercise which the kind of wrestling we indulged in furnished. In our little
                    coöperative gymnasium which was financed by volunatry student fees of twenty-five cents
                    per quarter for two years, we had a trapeze, a horizontal bar, dumb-bells and boxing-gloves. I took
                    most of my indoor exercise with the gloves. I acquired a little skill and learned to take punishment
                    and keep my temper. It was a good, harmless sport, which made the blood circulate more vigorously.
                    As for moving pictures, my high school days ended twenty years before a good beginning was made.
                    There were occasional 
                  
                     14 For many yean there was no road up the ravine that cut directly
                            through the bluff where the road turned up the hillside, but a series of steps led up to the
                            level area where the homes of South Delphi were built. During the past year, the road up the
                            ravine has been widened, repaved and made a part of State Road 39. The Deer Creek bridge of
                            1893 has also been replaced by a concrete structure of the latest type.
               
                     plays at the little opera house, but I can recall being present
                    at only three performances, an average of one a year.15
            
            I look back to both of my high school teachers as men of character. Mr. Dunkle was a native of the
                    community and a graduate of 
                        Hanover
                     College. He had served as Superintendent of the Delphi schools for several years before
                    I came in from the country. In those years, he had tried and found wanting the methods of dealing
                    with school boys that had long been in vogue. To me he seemed to be a mild, sensible man, who dealt
                    quite effectively with boys who had something worth while in them. He had me on the "green
                    carpet" occasionally, but I remember him as a "square-shooter" always.
                    His teaching was not brilliant, but he was a steady, painstaking instructor who achieved a fair
                    degree of success.
            Mr. McCracken was a native of 
                        Carroll County
                    , who took the course in, the State Normal School at 
                        Terre Haute
                     in the days of William A. Jones.16 He was a man of vigorous
                    personality and fine appearance. He was quick to learn and had a retentive mind. He could teach
                    anything with enthusiasm. He moved straight ahead in every recitation. With all his skill and vigor,
                    he covered up a method of life and work that was too rigid. He cultivated a somewhat abrupt manner,
                    and never received from or gave to a community according to his real capacity. He was, on the whole,
                    a very successful principal and teacher. He was honest and fair, but it was not easy for him to see
                    improvement in a struggling student who had sometime failed to live up to his expectations. On the
                    other hand, he did not do as much for boys and girls who were bright and also well-behaved as he
                    should have done, because he seemed unable to discover that they were not already perfect.17
            
            My class numbered twenty-one at the start on September 15, 1885, and eleven received diplomas at the
                    end of May in 1888. The mortality from failures was small indeed, if any were eliminated in that
                    way. Edward [Ned] Ballard dropped out at the end of one year to complete his preparatory course
                        
                  
                     15 One was "Joan of Arc", another "Uncle
                            Tom's cabin", and the third was a musical entertainment by the famous
                            McGibeny Family.
                  
                     16 S. B. McCracken finished the course in the State Normal School in
                            1881. An article treating of William A. Jones and the Normal School under his
                            administration, by John Donaldson, appeared in the Indiana. Magazine of
                            History (Sept. 1934), XXX, 242–264.
                  
                     17 In later years, I was a teacher in the 
                                Elkhart
                             high school when Mr. McCracken was the Principal. He left the Delphi high
                            school in the spring of 1890, after which he spent two years at Indiana University,
                            receiving an A.B. degree in 1892. In the fall of that year, he became Principal of the 
                                Elkhart
                             high school, in which position he remained for many years. He died early in
                            1936.
               
                     at 
                        Wabash
                     College from which school he was later graduated.18 Bert McClure
                    completed two years and then worked in the office of a local architect as a preliminary to a course
                    in that line in an eastern institution.19. Charles Schnepp left school at the
                    beginning of the Christmas vacation in our senior year, with the idea of taking a commercial course
                    which he did a few months later.20 Others became weary of school and quit to
                    accept jobs. Those who finished were: 
                        Georgia
                     Dunkle, Will Hayward, Jessie Inglee, Emma Jackson, William 0. Lynch, Minnie McCain,
                    Mattie Miller, Jesse C. Moore, Emma Montman, Kate Schermerhorn, and Henry Wingard.21
            
            At the commencement exercises, each of the eleven gave either an original oration or recited a
                    suitable selection. The last was an inovation, due to the fact that a woman of considerable ability
                    and good personality had come to town and organized a class in "elocution" which
                    included some members of the senior class. I cannot recall all of the subjects that were dealt with
                    by the orators, nor the "readings" that were so skillfully rendered. I remember
                    that Minnie McCain wrote and presented a clever essay, "Pussy Wants a Corner"; that I
                    preached a sort of sermon under the title "Too Late"; and that Will Hayward, son of the
                    Rector of the Episcopal Church, wrote and delivered a classic thesis on the "Oracle of
                    Delphi." A while before the commencement occurred, the male members of the class met to
                    practise, each before the others, hoping to profit by criticism. The criticism was forthcoming, but
                    I am doubtful concerning the profit. I can yet very clearly picture the beginning of young
                    Hayward's oration and his noble gesture, as he stepped out before us, pointed upward and
                    commanded us to "Behold Parnassus!" The real orators of the class were Henry
                    Wingard and Jesse Moore. Both were strong students and worthy young fellows, who since have 
                  
                     18 After graduating from 
                                Wabash
                            , Edward Ballard took a law course in 
                                Cincinnati
                             and has ever since practiced law in that city.
                  
                     19 After completing his special training, Bert McClure was a
                            successful architect in 
                        Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
                     , where he died some years
                            ago.
                  
                     20 Charles Schnepp has lived in Delphi much of the time since our high
                            school period, where he has been interested in various business pursuits. He now conducts a
                            real estate agency.
                  
                     21 After marriage 
                                Georgia
                             Dunkle lived in Rockford, 
                                Illinois
                            , where she died some years ago. The Hayward family left Delphi soon after 1888.
                            Will Hayward completed a course in some college and became a minister. Jesse Inglee married
                            Harry Johnson, and lived in 
                                Lowell
                            , Indiana, for many years. Since the death of Mr. Johnson, she lives in 
                                Chicago
                            . Emma Jackson married James O'Bear, an attorney, and lives in Delphi.
                            The Lynch listed is the writer of this sketch. Minnie McCain married Edwin Baum, who is a
                            florist, and lives in Delphi. I have no knowledge whatever concerning Mattie Miller. Jesse
                            C. Moore is an attorney and manufacturer of 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Emma Montman died a very few years after graduating from high school. Kate
                            Schermerhorn married a Mr. Brackenridge, who died several years ago. She now lives in
                            Delphi. Henry Wingard took a course in 
                                Butler
                             College and became a Christian minister. He has served a number of churches in
                            Indiana and 
                                Iowa
                            .
               
                     achieved success, but somehow I cannot bring to mind anything
                    relative to their efforts, save that Moore's, though an original production, was in verse,
                    while Wingard's speech was impressive in its imagery.
            Every class must have a motto, and ours was, "Paddle Your Own Canoe." A small
                    Indian canoe made by the boys of the class in the shop of George Vail, Architect, hung above the
                    stage in front of the class, with a paddle reposing therein.22 The injunction to
                    self-dependence could be read in large, gilded letters that were fastened on wires just below the
                    canoe. "Commencement" is a strange word to apply to a graduating exercise, Whether
                    "life begins at forty" or at birth, or with our remote ancestors, it is a
                    continuous unfolding. If one can keep growing, every day may be a sort of commencement day, and any
                    day in life is apt to be a day of struggle whether we will or no. The most that can be established
                    in the lives of boys and girls before leaving high school or in young men and women completing
                    college courses is a tendency toward clear thinking and right living. This helps towards true
                    success, but it does not insure against failure. It is only when a man or woman has conquered again
                    and again and goes over the last hill without falling in the last battle that complete victory has
                    been achieved.
            
               
                  22 The fashioning of the canoe was largely the work of Bert McClure, who
                        did not remain with the class during the senior year. He lived in Delphi during that year,
                        however, and took a great interest in the high school commencement.
            
         
         
         
            CONTRIBUTORS TO THIS ISSUE: Denzil Doggett of 
                        Indianapolis
                     is an Engineer with the Conservation Department of Indiana. He contributed an article,
                    "The Story of the Spring Mill Water-Wheel," in June, 1932. Dr. Harvey Wish is an
                    instructor in history in DePaul university, 
                        Chicago
                    . Miss Alice Bundy is a teacher in the 
                        South Bend
                     Schools, but a native of 
                        Jennings County
                    . Miss Julie Le Clerc 
                        Knox
                     lives in 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana. She has been a frequent contributor. Benjamin W. Nevis is a
                    pseudonym, used by a man much interested in Indian history. Dr. Christopher B. Coleman is Secretary
                    of the Indiana Historical Society, Head of the Indiana Historical Bureau, and Librarian of the
                    Indiana State Library. Mrs. Martha Tucker Morris, editor of "Indiana Genealogy"
                    lives in 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana. She has long been a worker in the field of genealogy. "A Man of
                    Common 
                        Clay
                    " is the Editor of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History.
            
         
         
            NOTE: This issue should have been in the mails by December 31, but, owing to an
                    unfortunate break-down of the Indiana University Press early in December, it was unavoidably
                    delayed.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to com plete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices
                    above the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired publications may write
                    to the Indiana Magazine of Histor.
            
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more copies of the following
                    numbers, especially those marked with asterisks:
            
               ∗ Volume I, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1905).
               Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
               Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907).
               Volume IV, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1908).
               Volume V, 2, 3, 4 (June, Sept., Dec., 1909).
               Volume VI, 1, 3, 4 (March, Sept., Dec., 1910).
               Volume VII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1911).
               ∗ Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1912).
               Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
               ∗ Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
               ∗ Volume XVII, 4 (Dec., 1921).
               Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
               Volume XXII, 1 (March, 1926).
            
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries or individuals who
                    may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at fifty cents a copy, or
                    two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four
                    dollars per volume. Issues from 1905–1913, when they can be supplied at all, will be sold
                    at one and a half dollars per number.
            
            The Indiana University Library needs the following publications to complete its files. Anyone having
                    any of these publications will confer a great favor by writing to W.A. Alexander, Librarian of
                    Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
                    The Indiana Alumnus
                
            
               Volume VI, 14 (Dec. 25, 1926). Wanted 3 copies.
               Volume VI, 16 (Jan. 16, 1927). Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana University Catalogue. The University needs the following to fill out
                    the files.
            
               1832–1833. Wanted 3 copies.
               1833–1834. Wanted 3 copies.
               1834–1835. Wanted 3 copies.
               1836–1837. Wanted 2 copies.
               1837–1838. Wanted 2 copies.
               1839–1840. Wanted 2 copies.
               1840–1841. Wanted 2 copies.
               1843–1844. Wanted 2 copies.
               1849–1850. Wanted 2 copies.
               1853–1854. Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana School Journal. Wanted Volume XXXVII (1892) and Volume XXXVIII (1893).
            
               Lincoln Lore. Wanted copies of Numbers 3–8, 10–11, 18,
                    15–17, 22, 26–29, 34 and 35 of 1929; Numbers 53 and 60 of 1930.
            
               Indiana Law Journal. Wanted copies of: Vol. I, No. 1; Vol. II, Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6;
                    Vol. III, Nos. 1, 5, 6. The desired copies were published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     during 1898–1899.
            In 1930, The Indiana Magazine of History published a General
                    Index for the first twenty-five volumes (1905–1929). The Index was compiled by
                    Dorothy Riker of the Indiana Historical Bureau. Every library and every individual possessing a file
                    of the Magazine for the period covered by the General Index, or
                    for any considerable portion of the period, should have a copy. It is still possible to obtain
                    copies at $1.00 each. Send orders to the Indiana Magazine of History, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
         
         
            INDIANA GENEALOGY
            The Bond Family
            By EDWIN C. CHAPMAN
            
            Bond families live in the following Indiana Counties; 
                        Wayne
                    , Henry, 
                        Randolph
                    , and LaPorte. Many of them are descended from Joseph Bond, an English 
                        Quaker
                    , who came to America by or before 1735, landing in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . He seems to have settled in Bucks County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and there to have married Martha Rogers also of English origin. She came to America
                    along with her family on the same ship that brought Joseph Bond. The two families may have been
                    acquainted in 
                        England
                    , or it may be that the association on shipboard led to the later marriage. At any rate,
                    the marriage took place about 1739. To Joseph and Martha Bond, who lived on a farm, were born five
                    children while they lived in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . The family became members of the Monthly Meeting of Friends in Bucks County.
            About 1750, when many Friends were migrating to 
                        North Carolina
                    , Joseph Bond with his family went to that colony. They settled in 
                        Guilford County
                     and became members of Center Monthly Meeting. Two additional children were born in the
                    new home, bringing the number to seven. It is not certain when either Joseph Bond or his wife died,
                    but there is a tradition among descendants that both died about 1760 and were buried in unmarked
                    graves in the Guilford Cemetery.
            Most of the Bond children lived to rear large families. Some of them remained in 
                        North Carolina
                    . As was natural, some of them moved westward to 
                        Tennessee
                    . One at least came to Indiana, where he died in 1821. This was Edward Bond who was the
                    father of nine children, most, or all, of whom came to Indiana during 1809 and 1810 when many
                    Friends migrated to the Territory.
            Genealogical records relative to various members of the Bond family follow:
            Joseph Bond.
            Son of Benjamin Bond and his wife Ann Paradise; born in Wiltshire, 
                        England
                    , at or near the village of Devizes, 8th month, 6th day, 1704; died in
                            
                  Guilford County, North Carolina
               , about 1760; settled in Bucks County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in  1735; married Martha Eogers, an English girl;
                    migrated to 
                        North Carolina
                     about 1750; seven children, five born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and two in 
                        North Carolina
                    .
            
               Children of Joseph Bond.
            
               
                  1. Edward
                  b. Sept. 26, 1740
                  m. Ann Mills
               
               
                  2. Benjamin
                  b., 1742
                  m. Mary Walton
               
               
                  3. Ruth
                  b., 1744 (or 5)
                  m. Benjamin Walton
               
               
                  4. Stephen
                  b
                  m.
               
               
                  5. Ann
                  b
                  m
               
               
                  6. Samuel
                  b. Dec. 2, 1753
                  m. Elizabeth Beales
               
               
                  7. John
                  b. May 30, 1755
                  m. (1) Jane Beeson (2) Elizabeth Beeson
               
            
            
                    Edward Bond.
                
            Son of Joseph Bond and his wife Martha Rogers; born in Bucks County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Sept. 26, 1740; moved with his parents to 
                  Guilford
                            County, North Carolina
               , about
                    1750; died in Indiana, May 6, 1821, having removed to Indiana Territory about 1810; married Ann
                    Mills in 
                  Guilford County, North Carolina
               , Aug. 16, 1764. Ann Mills was the daughter of John and
                    Sarah (Beals) Mills; born in 
                  Guilford County, North Carolina
               , in May, 1745; died in Indiana,
                    April 3, 1826.
            
               Children of Edward Bond and his wife Ann Mills.
            
               
                  1. Benjamin
                  b. July 4, 1765
                  m. Williams
               
               
                  2. Keziah
                  b. June 29, 1767
                  m.
               
               
                  3. John
                  b. June 15, 1769
                  m. Mary Huff
               
               
                  4. William
                  b. Nov. 16, 1771
                  m. Charlotte Hough
               
               
                  5. Edward
                  b. Jan. 24, 1774
                  m. Anna Huff
               
               
                  6. Anna
                  b. Sept. 19, 1776
                  m. Abram Bunker
               
               
                  7. Jesse
                  b. Nov. 24, 1779
                  m. Phebe Commons
               
               
                  8. Joshua
                  b. Nov. 28, 1781
                  m. Ruth Coffin
               
               
                  9. Joseph
                  b. Feb. 20, 1785
                  m. Sarah Mendenhall
               
            
            
                    Edward Bond, Jr.
                
            Son and fifth child of Edward Bond and his wife Ann Mills; born in 
                        Guilford County
                    , N.C., Jan. 24, 1774; died in 
                        Wayne
                     County, Indiana, March 14, 1856; married Anna Huff in 
                        Guilford County
                    , N.C., May 17, 1795. Anna was the daughter of Daniel Huff and his wife Elizabeth
                    Christie; born Feb. 18, 1777, in 
                        Guilford County
                    , N.C.; died Sept. 22, 1839, in 
                        Wayne
                     County, Indiana.
            In 1811, the family of Edward Bond, Jr., now consisting of wife and seven children moved to Indiana
                    and settled in 
                        Wayne
                     County where the town of Webster now is. There the family continued to live until the
                    death of the parents.
            
            
                    Children of Edward Bond and his wife Anna Huff.
                
            
               
                  1. Daniel
                  b. Oct. 5, 1796
                  m. Mary Hussey
               
               
                  2. Benjamin
                  b. Nov. 15, 1797
                  m. Ellen Goldsmith
               
               
                  3. Keziah
                  b. July 17, 1799
                  m. Lewis Underwood
               
               
                  4. Elizabeth
                  b. May 6, 1801
                  m. Soloman W. Roberts
               
               
                  5. Rachel
                  b. Dec. 1, 1804
                  (unmarried) d. Feb. 1, 1851
               
               
                  6. Edward
                  b. Jan. 11, 1809
                  (unmarried) d. Dec. 22, 1840
               
               
                  7. John
                  b. July 3, 1810
                  (unmarried) d. June 28, 1829
               
               
                  8. Huldah
                  b. May 22, 1812
                  m. Barnabas Payne
               
               
                  9. Anna
                  b. May 1, 1815
                  m. Jonathan Garrett
               
               
                  10. Elias
                  b. June 25, 1817
                  m. Lydia Hutchins
               
               
                  11. Gideon
                  b. Aug. 18, 1820
                  (no issue) d. July 11, 1839
               
            
            
                    Daniel Bond.
                
            Son of Edward Bond, Jr., and his wife Anna Huff; born in Surry County, N.C., May 10, 1796; died in 
                        Randolph County
                    , Indiana, August 17,1839; came with his parents to Indiana in 1811; married Mary Hussey
                    in 1819. Mary was the daughter of Christopher Hussey and his wife Sarah Brown, of 
                        Ohio
                    ; born March 13, 1797; died in 
                        Randolph County
                    , Indiana, Sept. 30, 1837.
            
                    Children of Daniel Bond and his wife Mary Hussey.
                
            
               
                  1. Christopher
                  b. June 28, 1821
                  m. Sarah Rinard
               
               
                  2. Levina
                  b. March 11, 1824
                  m. John Hull
               
               
                  3. Sarah
                  b. May 31, 1826
                  m. Zimri Hollingsworth
               
               
                  4. Cyrus
                  b. Aug. 8, 1828
                  m. Mary D. West
               
               
                  5. Eunice
                  b. June 28, 1830
                  m. Henry Nugent
               
               
                  6. Simon
                  b. Oct. 21, 1832
                  m. Susannah Harris
               
               
                  7. Pleasant
                  b. June 27, 1835
                  m. Martha Wilson
               
               
                  8. Peninah
                  b. June 11, 1837
                  (unmarried) d. April 11, 1858
               
            
            
                    Simon Bond.
                
            Son of Daniel Bond and his wife Mary Hussey; born in 
                        Wayne
                     County, Indiana, Oct. 21, 1832; died in 
                        California
                    , Jan. 17, 1898; married Susannah Harris in Indiana, probably in 1853 or 1855. Susannah
                    was the daughter of Benjamin Harris and his wife Lydia Hiatt; born about 1835 in Indiana.
            
                    Children of Simon Bond and his wife Susannah Harris.
                
            
               
                  1. Mary Elmetta
                  m. Cornelius Harris
               
               
                  2. Charles Sumner
                  m. Julia Boyd
               
               
                  3. M. Ella
                  m. Dr. Melville F. Johnston
               
               
                  4. Martha Emma
                  m.
               
               
                  5. Susan Myrtle
                  (deceased)
               
            
            
            Charles Sumner Bond is a physician and resides in 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana. Dr. Melville F. Johnston also resides in 
                        Richmond
                    .
            
                    Joseph Bond.
                
            Youngest of the children of Edward Bond and his wife Ann Mills; born in 
                        Guilford County
                    , N.C., Feb. 20, 1785; died in 
                        Wayne
                     County, Indiana, August 18, 1864; married Sarah Mendenhall in 
                        Guilford County
                    , N.C., Dec. 14, 1809. Sarah was the daughter of Aaron Mendenhall and his wife Marion
                    Rich; born in 
                        Guilford County
                    , N.C., Dec. 19, 1790; died in 
                        Wayne
                     County, Indiana, Feb. 18, 1848. Before the birth of any children, the family moved to 
                        Wayne
                     County, Indiana, about 1810 and settled in Middlesboro.
            
                    Children of Joseph Bond and his wife Sarah Mendenhall.
                
            
               
                  1. Aaron
                  b. Aug. 8, 1811
                  m. Amy Wright
               
               
                  2. Isaac
                  b. Nov. 4, 1812
                  m. Sarah Hiatt
               
               
                  3. Achsah
                  b. Dec. 10, 1814
                  m. Sylvanus Jones
               
               
                  4. Dinah
                  b. Dec. 2, 1816
                  m. Joseph Hiatt
               
               
                  5. Mahlon
                  b. Nov. 2, 1818
                  m. (1) Susan Mullin (2) Martha P. Bennett
               
               
                  6. Marian
                  b. Nov. 17, 1820
                  m. Charles Bond
               
               
                  7. Ann
                  b. Dec. 8, 1822
                  m. Elihu Jones
               
               
                  8. Peter
                  b. Oct. 17, 1824
                  m. Martha Fulghum
               
               
                  9. Susannah
                  b. Feb. 25, 1828
                  m. John Brown
               
               
                  10. Esther
                  b. July 21, 1834
                  m. Jonathan Jay
               
            
            
                    Peter Bond.
                
            Son of Joseph Bond and his wife Sarah Mendenhall; born in 
                        Wayne
                     County, Indiana, Oct. 17, 1824; died there Aug. 31, 1881; blacksmith by trade; married
                    Martha Fulghum in Indiana, Sept. 5, 1850. Martha was the daughter of Frederick Fulghum and his wife
                    Piety Parker; born Dec. 11, 1831; survived her first husband Peter Bond; married (2) David Little;
                    and married (3) Alpheus Test. It is believed that no children were born of these later marriages.
            
                    Children of Peter Bond and his wife Martha Fulghum.
                
            
               
                  1. Erastus
                  b. Oct. 21, 1851
                  m. Mary Hortense Murray
               
               
                  2. Fredericka J.
                  b. June 11, 1855
                  (unmarried) d. Nov. 21, 1875
               
               
                  3. Miriam
                  b. Nov. 1, 185-
                  (unmarried) d. Oct. 24, 1864
               
               
                  4. Charles F.
                  b. April 18, 1860
                  m.
               
               
                  5. Josiah Rockwell
                  b. Sept. 16, 1862
                  m. [?]; d. Aug. 6, 1864
               
               
                  6. Marianna
                  b. Jan. 4, 1866
                  m. W. J. Hippard
               
               
                  7. Sarah M.
                  b. Oct. 27, 1870
                  m. [?]; d. June 16, 1874
               
               
                  8. Henry Herbert
                  b. June 12, 1874
                  m. Joseph Froggatt
               
            
         
         
         
            The Stewart Family
            SUSAN W. ATKINS
            
            Two men, both by the name of James Stewart, were members of the company commanded by Captain William
                    Harrod, which formed the nucleus of the regiment, serving under Col. George Rogers Clark, in 1779,
                    with the base of supplies at the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     on the island opposite 
                        Louisville
                    . These men were from that part of 
                        Orange
                     County, 
                        Virginia
                    , where Shepherdstown is now located. They went to Redstone Fort, in 
                  Washington County, Pennsylvania
               , with the troops that served in the French and Indian War.
                    These Stewarts may have been at an earlier date in Little Cove, 
                  Cumberland County, Pennsylvania
               . One of the oldest lists (1750) in East Pennsborough, 
                        Cumberland County
                     gives: Widow Stewart, 
                        Middletown
                    , 1781; James Stuart, John Stuart, William Stuart. In 
                  Cumberland County, Pennsylvania
               , in the early period, there lived, John Campbell Stewart and
                    Arthur Stewart of Peters Township.
            The 
                        Cumberland County
                     (1768) original tax list, in Carlyle Court House, Commissioner's Office, shows
                    the following:
            
               
                  Moses Stuart
                  50 a
               
               
                  James Stewart
                  50 a, Air Township
               
               
                  Wm. Herrod
                  80 a (10 clear), 2 Horses, 2 Cows
               
               
                  John Herrod
                  50 a (10 clear)
               
            
            Wills recorded in 
                        Jefferson County
                    , Ky., at 
                        Louisville
                    , (Book L, pp. 244, May 11, 1812) include a will of Steven (Stewart, as mention is made
                    of his son, James Harvey Stewart). A plantation on Pleasant Run, adjoining the lands of Thomas
                    Downs, James Stewart, William Goodwin, and—Weather (to James Harvey Stewart). The residue
                    to his three children, James H. Stewart, Priscilla Stewart, Cincha Stewart. Witnessed by James
                    Stewart, William Goodwin.
            Thomas Downs, James Stewart and William Goodwin, were the first settlers in the Silver Creek district
                    of 
                        Clark County
                     and were original members of Silver Creek Church. Thomas Downs was a first Justice of
                    General Sessions of 
                        Clark County
                    , Indiana Territory, formerly part of 
                        Virginia
                    , appointed by William Henry Harrison as soon as he received his own appointment as
                    Governor of the Territory. Harrison  went at once to the Falls,
                    and made these appointments from 
                        Louisville
                    , Ky. He then proceeded to 
                        Vincennes
                    .1
            
            
               
                  1The matter relating to the Stewart family here presented is the product
                        of personal research carried on to help descendants of these families. It is submitted for
                        publication, to present Bible and other records that may help to bring out the connection of
                        many lines of the Stewart family in Indiana.
            
         
         
         
            Queries and Answers
            
               Attention: Queries should be typed to avoid mistakes in names and dates. They must
                    be signed and the address of sender given. All queries should be brief and definite. Answers for
                    publication will be greatly appreciated. In connection with any answer, the date of the Magazine and the number of the query answered should be given. Traditions must be
                    verified. Bible records are requested for publication. Mail answers to Mrs. Martha Tucker Morris, 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana.
            Query 10: BEEKS FAMILY
            
            Christopher Beeks may have been a descendant of William Beakes, who went from 
                        New Jersey
                    , to 
                        Pennsylvania
                     about 1682, to join the 
                        Quaker
                     colony. The place and date of birth of Christopher Beeks are not known, nor is his
                    ancestry. He married Catherine Barnes; born Aug. 16, 1757; died Feb. 18, 1834, probably in Xenia, 
                        Ohio
                    ; widow married (perhaps, about 1826) Samuel Euin (Ewing) becoming his second wife. The
                    children of Christopher Beeks, as listed in Xenia, 
                        Greene
                     Co., 
                        Ohio
                    , records in 1827 were: Elizabeth, mar. Eli Adams in 1810 and lived in 
                        Madison
                     Co., 
                        Ohio
                    ; William, mar. Margaret—; Nancy, mar. George May; Sarah, mar. William D.
                    Powers, and lived in Ind. in 1827; James Beeks and wife Catherine of—, Ind.; Samuel and
                    wife Elizabeth, of —, Ind.; John, of 
                        Georgia
                    ; Henry, of—, Miss.; Thomasi, mar. Nancy Pumphrey, of—, Va.;
                    Catherine, mar. George Smith in 1817 and removed from 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                  Albany, Delaware
                Co., Ind. Wanted further information relative to the
                    Beeks, Barnes and Bonner families, with names and addresses of descendents living in
                    Indiana.—K.K.A.
            Query 11: FIGG FAMILY
            
            William Figg married Elizabeth Powell, probably in 
                        Shelby
                     or Mercer Co., Ky. Martha Figg, daughter, mar. Joseph R. Lacy, at 
                        Danville
                    , Ky., in 1847; came to Corydon, Ind., 185-. Joseph R. Lacy died at Corydon, Ind., in
                    1884. Wanted information about the parents of William Figg, Elizabeth Powell, and Joseph
                    Lacy.—F.C.
            Query 12: JAMES GKEGG FAMILY
            
            James Gregg was born July 25, 1790; died May 2, 1827; buried in Floyd Co., Ind.; Bible records
                    destroyed by fire at Greenville, Floyd Co. Wanted the names of the parents of James Gregg and other
                    data relative to his ancestors.—S.L.M.
            
            Query 13: DAVIS AND EDWARDS
                        FAMILIES
            
            Bluford G. Davis was born in 1796 in Ky.; died in 1871 in Ill.; mar. (1) a Tolliver; at least four
                    children, perhaps more; brother, John Calvin Davis, Mar. Elizabeth Tolliver. This Davis family said
                    to be of the same line as Jefferson Davis. Bluford G. Davis, mar. (2) Mary Edwards; born in 1817 in
                    N.C. Children born in Lawrence Co., Ind., were: Ellen, Angelina (mar. Edmond Rennels), David C.
                    (born Sept. 10, 1839; mar. Mary McLaughlin), Mary J., Adeline, Alexander, and Matilda. Wanted the
                    names of the parents of Bluford G. Davis and his second wife, Mary Edwards. Information in regard to
                    the children listed will also be appreciated.—O.P.G.
            Query 14: CAMPBELL FAMILY
            
            James Campell was born Nov. 7, 1782; mar. Martha Adams in N.C., about 1809. Martha was born Nov. 14,
                    1789, probably in N.C.; came to 
                        Bartholomew
                     Co., Ind. (date not known; children—Clina, William, Polly, John, Alfred
                    (born Nov. 11, 1818; mar. Maria Blades, daughter of John Blades and Elender, or Eleanor, Stuckey,
                    Mar. 19, 1839, in 
                        Bartholomew
                     co., Ind.), Nelson, Harriet, and Washington. James 
                        Campbell
                     and his wife Martha believed to have died in 
                        Shelby
                     Co., Ind. Wanted dates of the deaths of both and information about their descendents
                    living in Indiana.—W.C.C.
            Query 15: SHEETS FAMILY
            
            George Sheets was born near Stanton, Va., about 1780. The name of his first wife is not known, but
                    his second wife was Mary Hudson who was born near Edenton, N.C. in 1816. Children of the first
                    marriage were: Hillary, Joseph, John, Levi, Catherine, Sarah, and James. George Sheets died Aug. 10,
                    1845, in 
                        Carroll County
                    , Ind. Wanted information regarding the ancestry of George Sheets and the name, with
                    dates of birth, marriage, and death of his first wife.—C.E.W.
            Answer to Query 5 (September, 1936, p.309), requesting inscriptions on Eddingfield tombstones in the
                    Union Church Cemetery, two miles west of New Ross, Ind., on State Road No. 34. The inscriptions were
                    copied by William O. Lynch of Indiana University who visited the Cemetery on Oct. 18, 1936. On west
                    side of tombstone: "Father and Mother," the three words in a vertical column.
            
            
               
                  (north side of tombstone)
                  (south side of tombstone)
               
               
                  John J. Eddingfield
                  Sarah Eddingfield
               
               
                  Died
                  Died
               
               
                  Oct. 8, 1875
                  May 28, 1899
               
               
                  Aged
                  Aged
               
               
                  60 y. 7 mo. and 26 d.
                  85 y. 3 mo. 11 d.
               
            
            On a nearby tombstone, inscriptions relating to a later Eddingfield family appear. On the west of the
                    Tombstone, Eddingfield; north side, James C., 1856 and 1933, in vertical arrangement; south side Aretta H., 1855 and
                        1932, also in vertical arrangement.
            Answer to Query 6 (September, 1936, p. 310), relative to the Lewis Family: A descendant of William
                    Lewis who married Sarah Antrim has learned that William Lewis came first to Union County, Indiana,
                    and then removed to 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Clark Co., Ind., and was Registrar of the Land Office in that city,
                    1828–1832. A record of this family will be sent in and published
                later.—M.T.M.
         
         
         
            Bible Records
            SHIPMAN FAMILY BIBLE RECORD
               1
            
            John L. Shipman, born Nov. 20, 1825; died Jan. 27, 1870, aged 44 years, 2 months, 7 days.
            Lucinda E. Shipman [Lucinda Evelyn Graham] was born May 27, 1827; died April 26, 1898, aged 70 years,
                    10 months, 29 days.
            Durett P. Shipman, born Nov. 6, 1852; died Aug. 19, 1872, aged 19 months, 1 day.
            Anna Vesta Shipman, born Dec. 8, 1851; died Sept. 9, 1872, aged 20 years, 9 months, 1 day.
            Charles S.2 [Samuel Charles] Shipman, born Sept. 12, 1850; died Aug. 2, 1851, age
                    10 months, 3 weeks.
            Edward W. Shipman [middle name Walter], born Jan. 19, 1856; died Oct. 1, 1861, aged 4 years, 3
                    months, and 22 days.
            Charles Shipman [a second Charles], born Nov. 14, 1857; died Aug. 18, 1859, aged 19 months, 4 days.
            Cassius C. Shipman, born July 1, 1860; died March the 29, 1881, age 20 years, 9 months.
            James David Shipman, born Nov. 25, 1862; died Mar. 3, 1931, at 
                        Brooklyn
                    , N. Y.3
            
            
               
                  1 The Shipman Bible is in the possession of Mrs. Sylvan L. Mouser (616 E.
                        47th St., 
                            Indianapolis
                        ) who copied the records.
               
                  2 The name was first written "S.C." Shipman and then
                        changed to "Charles S."
               
                  3 Harry Shipman, the only living child of John L. and Lucinda E. Shipman,
                        is not Included in this Bible record. The Cemetery inscriptions correspond with the Bible
                        record. In copying the inscriptions, it was found another Shipman family was buried in the 
                            New Albany
                         Cemetery but no connection between the families has been discovered. Their names
                        are: Wm. Charles Shipman (1813–1874) and Lucinda Shipman
                    (1819–1894).
            
            KENDRICK FAMILY BIBLE RECORD
               1
            
            
                    Marriages.
                
            
               
                  William Kendrick and Anne Taylor
                  October 18, 1810.
               
               
                  Lavenia Kendrick and William Fryar
                  May 5, 1831.
               
               
                  John Kendrick and Lavina McWhinney
                  April 14, 1834.
               
               
                  Temperance Malvina Kendrick and Samuel W. Holmes.
                  May 11, 1837.
               
               
                  William Houston Kendrick and Jeanette Meredith
                  Mar. 19, 1842.
               
            
            
                    Births.
                
            
               
                  William Kendrick
                  Jan. 2, 1785
               
               
                  Anne Kendrick
                  Mar. 15, 1789
               
               
                  James H. Kendrick
                  May 12, 1811
               
               
                  Lavenia Kendrick
                  Dec. 4, 1811
               
               
                  John L. Kendrick
                  Mar. 12, 1813
               
               
                  William H. Kendrick
                  Dec. 21, 1815
               
               
                  Mary Jane Kendrick
                  Nov. 24, 1816
               
            
            
               
                  1 This record was sent in by E C. Chapman (4375 Wooddale Ave.,
                        Minnaenolis, Minn.), the copy being furnished by William Meredith Kendriek (972 Middle Drive.
                        Woodruff Place, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ). Mr. Kendrick says in a letter: "The Meredith in my
                        name comes from Grandmother Kendrick whose maiden name was Jeanette Meredith, and who came from 
                            Wayne
                         County, Indiana.
            
            
            
               
                  Temperance Kendrick
                  Nov. 17, 1817
               
               
                  Oscar Kendrick
                  Feb. 23, 1820
               
               
                  
                     
                                Franklin
                             Kendrick
                  Jan. 16, 1822
               
               
                  Susan Kendrick
                  Dec. 21, 1824
               
               
                  Wesley Kendrick
                  Apr. 1, 1826
               
               
                  Matthew Kendrick
                  Nov. 21, 1830
               
               
                  Stephen L. Kendrick
                  July 24, 1831
               
            
            
                    Deaths.
                
            
               
                  Mary Jane Kendrick
                  Nov. 26, 1816
               
               
                  
                     
                                Franklin
                             Kendrick
                  Oct. 27, 1823
               
               
                  Susan Kendrick
                  Apr. 9, 1827
               
               
                  Matthew Kendrick
                  Oct. 1, 1831
               
               
                  Stephen L. Kendrick
                  Feb. 26, 1843
               
               
                  Wesley Kendrick
                  Sept. 27, 1850
               
               
                  Anne Kendrick
                  Apr. 16, 1852
               
               
                  William Kendrick
                  July 10, 1857
               
               
                  Oscar Kendrick
                  Mar. 5, 1868
               
               
                  Lavenia Kendrick Fryar
                  Dec. 6, 1885
               
               
                  William H. Hendrick
                  Nov. 26, 1899
               
            
         
         
         
            Tombstone Inscriptions
            PROVIDENCE METHODIST CHURCH CEMETERY
               1
            
            
               Hugh Sherwood, 1770–1846.
               Rebecca Sherwood, 1772–1852.2
               
               Edward Mulvany, 1903–1906
               Albert Mulvany Indiana Pvt. 4 U.S. Art.—Nov. 6, 1921
               
                  
                            Marion
                         Cooper—Born Apr. 22, 1837—Died May 17, 1902
               Andrew A.H. May—Born July 3, 1886—Died July 24, 1902—Aged 16
                        Yrs.
               Eliza J. Cooper—Died July 20, 1850—Born Feb.-, 1802
               Clyde H. Mattox—Born July 3, 1886—Died Sep. 26, 1888
               Amela Mattox—Born Feb. 13, 1840—Died Apr. 5, 1870—Aged 20
                        Yrs.
               Thomas Hunt—Killed Dec. 21, 1906—Aged 23 Yrs. 5 Mo.
               Leonard H. May—Born Feb. 23, 1846—Died Apr. 5, 1845
               James W. Buchanan [no dates]
               Wm. F. Mattox—Born Mch. 9, 1873—Died Mch.-, 1902
               Matilda Mattox—Born Apr. 11, 1827—Died [date not inscribed]
               Valentine Mattox—Born Dec. 3, 1825—Died Feb. 5, 1902
               Joseph Matton—Born May 7, 1859—Died Nov. 16, 1901
               
                  
                            Missouri
                         Mattox—Born July 18, 1854—Died July 12, 1927—Aged
                        73 Yrs.
               Corneleson [large stone] Cora M. 1878–1909 Ira W. 1896–1913
               Francis L.—Son of Wm. & Muhulda Buchanon—Born Sep. 4,
                        1851—Died Aug. 5, 1856
               Sarah—Wife of Newton Collins—1845–1926
               Emily Hollowell—Born Dec. 29, 1823—Died June 10, 1899
               Wm. Hollowell—Born Mar. 4, 1823—Died July 27, 1904
               James M. May—Aug. 24, 1856—Died May 29, 1913
               Robert May—Born Aug. 27, 1880—Died June 29, 1906.
               Maria—Wife of J. S. May—June 12, 1843-Oct. 17, 1901
               John S. May—Born Oct. 19, 1841—Died Apr. 5, 1902
               Andrew J. May—Aug. 24, 1856—Died May 29, 1913
               Hannah May—Born Mar. 14, 1818—Died Jan. 24, 1884
               James M. May—Born Nov. 26, 1815—Died Apr. 16, 1899
               William T. May—Sep. 19, 1835—Died Aug. 7, 1912
               Clara A. May—Oct. 22, 1840—Feb. 12, 1919
               Charley V. May—Son of J. M. & E. A. Tarr—1909–1912
               Minnie Marshall—[no dates]
               John Marshall—1842–1912
               Mary A. Marshall—1844–1912
            
            
               
                  1 This Cemetery is in 
                            Madison
                         Township, 
                            Washington County
                        , Ind. It is a part of Section 28, Township 1N, Ransre 3E. The inscriptions were
                        copied by Mrs. C.P. Lesh and Mrs. Theodore Craven, both of 
                            Indianapolis
                        , and Mrs. Harvey Morris of 
                            Salem
                        , in June, 1936.
               
                  2 The old markers for the two Sherwood graves, which carried only
                        initials, were replaced by a granite marker with names and dates, as given above. The new marker
                        is the gift of a great-granddaughter of Hugh and Rebecca Sherwood, Mrs. C.P. Lesh of 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
            
               Eva M. Marshall—Born Jan. 22, 1870—Died 1875
               Rebecca Clements Poison—Died Jan. 2, 1898—Age 67 Y. 24 Das.
               John T. Poison—Died Oct. 8, 1862—Age 24 Yr. 3 M. 23 Das.
               Thomas Clements—Born Aug. 22, 1845 [?]—Died Nov. 15, 1906
               Catherine—Wife—Born June 16, 1842—Died July 18, 1890
               
                  
                            Milton
                         Clements—Co. F., 59th Inf. [Government Stone]
               Colglazier [large stone]
               David Colglazier—Born Feb. 4, 1831—Died Jan. 20, 1898
               Ellen—his Wife—Born Mar. 18, 1838—Died May 1, 1903
               Clyde Colglazier—Born June 25, 1880—Died Nov. 1, 1881
               Infant—Born and died—Apr. 3, 1882
               
                  
                            Montgomery
                         [large stone]
               George—Born Apr. 4, 1833—Died Feb. 13, 1885—Aged 46 Y. 10 M.
                        9 D.
               Mary E.-wife-Born June 18, 1839 [no date of death]
               Maryanne—Wife of A. Agan—Born Sep. 22, 1845—Died Mar. 23,
                        1884— Aged 38 Y. 6 M. 1 D.
               Lemuel L. Kimbrel—Died Sep. 13,1889—Aged 72 Y. 2 M. 14 D.
               Mary Kimbrel—Died Feb. 2, 1890—Aged 73 Y. 2 D.
               Thomas Sherwood [no dates]
               Elizabeth Sherwood [no dates]
            
            This cemetery has a number of new graves, with only undertaker markers. A road to this cemetery has
                    been built recently. The old log church, organized and built in 1844, is to be kept as a
                    "Memorial" to the founders of the Church. The land for the Church and the Cemetery
                    was given by Thomas Sherwood, son of Hugh and Rebecca (Field) Sherwood, and his wife Elizabeth.3
            
            The early minutes of the Methodist Church of this community record the naming of the Church. While
                    the building was being erected by the men of the neighborhood, there was not a rainy day, of the
                    many chosen for the work, and on one of the days, near the completion of the Church, a wild turkey
                    flew over the site where the men were working. It was captured by Thomas Sherwood, and was prepared
                    by the women, for the dinner that day, it was decided while eating this fine dinner, that the new
                    Church should be called "
                        Providence
                    ", for the many blessings the members had received while constructing
                    it.—M.T.M.
            
               
                  3 The deed is recorded in Book Q, p.31, 
                     Salem, Washington County
                  ,
                    Ind.
            
         
         
         
            Marriage Records
            TIPPECANOE COUNTY, INDIANA (Continued) From Book I, 1826–1830
            Copied by MYRA ESAEEY, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Ind.
            
               
                  Abbreviations:
                  LA—Lawful Age
                  AJ—Associate Judge
               
               
                  
                  TC—
                                Tippecanoe
                             Co.
                  DD—Doctor of Divinity
               
               
                  
                  JP—Justice of Peace
                  ECC—Elder Christian Church
               
               
                  
                  HG—Minister of Gospel
                  VDM—Visiting Deacon of Ministry
               
            
            
               Holladay, Thomas W., to Ann Kerr (dau. of James), TC, LA, June 23, 1828; by Levi Thornton, JP,
                        June 26, 1828, p. 24.
               Shortridge, Morgan, to Clarissa Burk, TC, LA, June 23, 1828; by Levi Thornton, JP, June 24,
                        1828, p. 25.
               Holladay, John (son of Sam), to Rebecca Bailey, TC, LA, July 12, 1828; by Levi Thornton, JP,
                        July 13, 1828, p. 25.
               Kendall, Enion, to Polly Gates, TC, LA, July 15, 1828; by Reuben Kelsey, JP, July 17, 1828, p.
                        26.
               Allen, John, to Elizazeth Langloy, TC, LA, July 16, 1828; by Reuben Kelsey, JP, July 17, 1828,
                        p. 26.
               Hilt, William, to Catherine Iseley (dau. of Daniel), TC, LA, July 26, 1828; by Andrew Simon,
                        MG, Ger. Lutheran Church, July 27, 1828, p. 27.
               Arman, Thomas, to Nancy Reynolds (dau. of Philip), TC, LA, July 28, 1828; by Reuben Kelsey,
                        JP, July 31, 1828, p. 27.
               Storm, David, to Rebecca Wright, TC, LA, Aug. 13, 1828; by L. Thornton, JP, Aug. 11, 1828, p.
                        28.
               Bildeback, Thomas, to Rachel Bringham (dau. of Samuel), TC, LA, Aug. 18, 1828; by Philip
                        McCormick, JP, Aug. 21, 1828, p. 28.
               Cox, Alexander, to Anne Yount, TC, LA, Aug. 23, 1828; by Levi Thornton, JP, Aug. 24, 1828, p.
                        29.
               Denny, William, to Beulah Ellis, TC, LA, Aug. 25, 1828; by Abel Janney, JP, Aug. 28, 1828, p.
                        29.
               Ellis, James F. (son of Isaac), to Sarah Suit (dau. of James), TC, Sept. 8, 1828; by Philip
                        McCormick, JP, Sept. 11, 1828, p. 30.
               Patty, Eli, to Catharine Guinn, TC, LA, Sept. 18, 1828; by John Provolt, AJ, Sept. 18, 1828,
                        p. 30.
               Moffitt, James, to Mary Molder, TC, LA, Oct. 6, 1828; by Levi Thornton, JP, Oct. 6, 1828, p.
                        31.
               Talbert, Joseph, to Elizabeth Sheriden, TC, LA, Oct. 13, 1828; by John Provolt, AJ, Oct. 16,
                        1828, p. 31.
               Rau, Moses, to Elizabeth Roberts (usually residents within jurisdiction of TC), LA on
                        affidavit of Reuben Kelsey, Nov. 2, 1828; by Reuben Kelsey, JP, Nov. 2, 1828, p. 32.
               Newman, William, to Vermilla Wheeler, LA, TC, Nov. 11, 1828; by Abel Janney, JP, Nov. 13,
                        1828, p. 32.
               Butcher, John, to Abagail Monohan, TC, LA, Nov. 17, 1828; by Solomon Crose, MG, Nov. 20, 1828,
                        p. 33.
               Vametre, Jacob B. (Vanmetre), to Sarah Taylor, TC, LA, Dec. 3, 1828; by Solomon Crose, MG,
                        Dec. 8, 1828; p. 33.
               
               Potter, Albin, to Nancy Anderson, TC, LA, Dec. 10, 1828; by Abel Janney, JP, Dec. 11, 1828, p.
                        34.
               Huston, Robert, to Nancy Rock (one of the parties of 
                            Tippecanoe
                         Co.), both LA, Dec. 15, 1828; by John Bishop, JP, Dec. 15, 1828, p. 34.
               Davis, Levi, to Martha McCurdy, TC, LA, Dec. 27, 1828; by Levi Thornton, JP, Dec. 28, 1828, p.
                        35.
               Mahan, Thomas, to Francis Underbill, TC, LA, Jan. 24, 1829; by Wm. Bush, JP, Jan. 29, 1829, p.
                        35.
               Clark, Samuel O., to Mary Miller, TC, LA, Feb. 4, 1829; by Solomon Crose, MG, Feb. 5, 1829, p.
                        36.
               Paige, James Sullivan, to Hannah Rarrick, both LA (affidavit of James Duncan), TC, Feb. 4,
                        1829; by Wm. Bush, JP, Feb. 4, 1829, p. 36.
               Schoonover, Abraham, LA (affidavit of Nathaniel Schoonover), to Jane James, TC, LA, Feb. 4,
                        1829; by Abel Janney, JP, Feb. 5, 1829, p. 37.
               Chamberlain, Benjamin 
                            Franklin
                        , LA, to Phoeba 
                            Campbell
                        , LA (by the consent of her mother), TC, Feb. 10, 1829; by Wm. Bush, JP, Feb. 12,
                        1829, p. 37.
               Miller, James, to Precilla Travace, TC, LA, Feb. 11, 1829; by John Bishop, JP, Feb. 11, 1829,
                        p. 38.
               Weaver, Patrick Henry, to Ailsey Demmett, TC, LA, Feb. 23, 1829; by Abel Janney, JP, Feb. 26,
                        1829, p. 38.
               Basye, John T., LA (by consent of Lismund Basye his father), to Del-.ana 
                            Brown
                        , TC, Feb. 24, 1829; by Wm. Bush, JP, Feb. 24, 1829, p. 39.
               Ayres, Simeon S., to Sarah Amanda Claspill, TC, LA, Feb. 28, 1829; by James Crawford, MG, Mar.
                        1, 1829, p. 39.
               McGuire, Nathaniel, to Jemima Mercer, TC, LA, Mar. 2, 1829; by Reuben Kelsey, JP, Mar. 4,
                        1829, p. 40.
               Tullis, Moses, to Susana Murdock, TC, LA, Mar. 7, 1829; by Abel Janney, JP, Mar. 8, 1829, p.
                        40.
               Roberts, Joseph, LA, to Sarah H. Burgess (dau. of Joseph), Mar. 14, 1829, TC (no return), p.
                        41.
               Forgey, John S. to Mary Mott, TC, LA, Mar. 24, 1829 (no return), p. 41.
               Farnsworth, David, to Indiana Cain (Affidavit of John M. Cain, brother of Indiana and James
                        Cain, her uncle, for consent of her father, Cornelius Cain), TC, Mar. 24, 1829; by Wm. Clark,
                        DD, Mar. 26, 1829, p. 42.
               Cockran, William Kerr, to Margaret Stockton, TC, LA, Apr. 2, 1829; by James Crawford, MG, Apr.
                        2, 1829, p. 42.
               Murphy, Thomas W. (consent of John Murphy, his guardian), to Mary Jorden (consent of Wm.
                        Jorden her father), TC, Apr. 16, 1829; by John Bishop, JP, Apr. 21, 1829, p. 43.
               Staley, Aron, to Catharine Persons, TC, LA, Apr. 28, 1829; by Stephen Kennedy, JP, Apr. 30,
                        1829, p. 43.
               Rarrick, Henry, to Indiana Lamb, TC, LA, May 12, 1829; by Wm. Bush, JP, May 14, 1829, p. 44.
               Carmean, Garrison, to Rachel Clark, TC, LA, May 14, 1829; by Stephen Kennedy, JP, May 14,
                        1829, p. 44.
               Mickle, Joseph M. (consent of Elizabeth Mickle, his mother), to Elizabeth  Hodgin, LA, both TC, May 20, 1829; by Philip McCormick, JP, May 20,
                        1829, p. 45.
               Hunter, Daniel, to Amanda Jones, TC, LA, May 23, 1829; by L. Thornton, JP, May 28, 1829, p.
                        45.
               Kinworthy, Joshua (consent of Robert Kinworthy, his father), to Rebecca Heston (dau. of
                        Phineas), TC, May 27, 1829; by Abel Janney, JP, June 2, 1829, p. 46.
               Anderson, William, to Rachel Goodden (dau. of Daniel), TC. LA, May 27, 1829; by Abel Janney,
                        JP, June 4, 1829, p. 46.
               Ivers, William, to Hannah Patty, TC, LA, June 17, 1829; by John Provolt, AJ, June 16, 1829, p.
                        47.
               Provolt, Ezekiel, to Eliza Ann 
                            Ireland
                        , TC, LA, June 24, 1829; by Stephen Kennedy, JP, June 25, 1829, p. 47.
               Large, Jesse, to Polly Dawhitt (consent of Banet Dawhitt, her father), TC, LA, June 24, 1829;
                        by John Bishop, JP, June 25, 1829, p. 48.
               Johnson, Henry, to Mary White, TC, LA, June 24, 1829; by John Bishop, JP, July 1, 1829, p. 48.
               Foust, Jesse, to Esther Schuck, LA, TC, July 1, 1829; by John Bishop, JP, July 2, 1829, p. 49.
               Phebus, William, to Sophia Corwin (consent of Daniel Corwin, her father), July 7, 1829, TC,
                        LA; by John Bishop, JP, July 12, 1829, p. 49.
               Houghland, Eliza, to Sarah Adair (affidavit of Horace Stibbins on behalf of Sarah), TC, LA,
                        July 8, 1829; by Levi Thornton, JP, July 8, 1829, p. 50.
               Thomas, William, to Eliza Goddard (consent of Ashbea Goddard), TC, LA, July 11, 1829; by John
                        Bishop, JP, July 12, 1829, p. 50.
               Stanley, Joseph, to Lidia Bilderback (consent of Gabriel Bilderback, her father), TC, LA, July
                        14, 1829; by Abel Janney, JP, July 16, 1829, p. 51.
               Timmons (Simmons), James, of 
                            Washington
                         Tp., to Ellyn Nichols, 
                            Washington
                         Tp., TC, LA (affidavit of Wm. Nichols), July 14, 1829; by Zabina Babcock, JP, July
                        10, 1829, p. 51.
               Patton, David, to Lucinda Bush (consent of Michael Bush, her father), July 14, 1829, TC; by
                        Levi Thornton, JP, July 14, 1829, p. 52.
               Crouch, Joseph, to Jerutia Dehart (consent of Jacob Dehart, her father), TC, LA, July 27,
                        1829; by Solomon Crose, MG, July 30, 1829, p. 52.
               Parcut, David, to Emily Parker, TC, LA, Aug. 3, 1829 (by affidavit of John Underhall); by
                        William Bush, JP, Aug. 9, 1829, p. 53.
               Wright, Parson, to Melinda Wiley, TC, LA, Aug. 3, 1829; by Levi Thornton, JP, Aug. 6, 1829, p.
                        53.
               Wilson, Dudley W., to Mahala Wilson (consent of Arthur Wilson, father of Mahala and affidavit
                        of Abraham Boltinhouse), TC, LA, Aug. 22, 1829; by Wm. Bush, JP, Aug. 23, 1829, p. 54.
               Williams, David, to Nancy Ward, TC, LA, Sept. 2, 1829; by John Bishop, JP, Sept. 3, 1829, p.
                        54.
               Bush, Abraham (
                            Fountain
                         Co.), to Mary B. Tullis, TC, LA (consent of Richard Bush, his father), Sept. 10,
                        1829; by John Bishop, JP, Sept. 10, 1829, p. 55.
               Mead (Wead), John, to Charlotte Miller, TC, LA (affidavit of Samuel  M. Holmes), Sept. 18, 1829; by Stephen Kennedy, JP, Sept. 19, 1829,
                        p. 55.
               Ellis, Nehemiah, to Elleanor Heath, TC, LA, Sept. 23, 1829; by John Bishop, JP, Sept. 24,
                        1829, p. 56.
               Southard, Aron H., to Rebecca A. Hood, TC, LA, Sept. 29, 1829; by James Thompson, VDM,
                        Jefferson, 
                            Wabash
                         Co., Oct. 1, 1829, p. 56.
               
                  
                            Franklin
                        , William (
                            Warren
                         Co.), to Lidia 
                            Shelby
                        , TC, LA, Oct. 12, 1829; by Philip McCormick, JP, Oct. 15, 1829, p. 57.
               Kennedy, John, to Merena S. Wylie, TC, LA (consent of James Wylie, her father), Oct. 26, 1829;
                        by John Provolt, AJ, Oct. 29, 1829, p. 57.
               Moots, Samuel, to Mary 
                            Oxford
                        , TC, LA, Oct. 30, 1829; by William Woods, JP, Nov. 1, 1829, p. 58.
               
                  
                            Franklin
                        , John, to Christina Conner, TC, LA, Nov. 12, 1829; by John Bishop, JP, Nov. 12, p.
                        58.
               Murray, Michael, to Moranda Roberts, TC, LA, Nov. 23, 1829; by Wm. Bush, JP (no date given),
                        p. 59.
               Thornton, James, to Margaret Knapper, LA, TC, Dec. 1, 1829; by James H. Martin, MG, Dec. 4,
                        1829, p. 59.
               Barton, Thomas, to Nancy Asher, TC, LA (consent of Charles Asher, her father), Dec. 1, 1829;
                        by Zabina Babcock, JP, Dec. 3, 1829, p. 60.
               Benny, Samuel, to Nancy Kerr, TC, LA, Dec. 9, 1829; by Solomon Crose, MG, Dec. 10, 1829, p.
                        60.
               Denman, William, to Margaret Corbin, TC, LA, Dec. 9, 1829; by John Bishop, JP, Dec. 9, 1829,
                        p. 61.
               Irwin, Arthur, to Phoba West, TC, LA, Dec. 14, 1829; by John Provolt, AJ, Dec. 16, 1829, p.
                        61.
               Replogle, Joseph, to Susan Mikesell, Dec. 16, 1829, TC, LA; by Samuel Arthur, MG, Dec. 17,
                        1829, p. 62.
               Storm, Joseph, to Maria Johnson, TC, LA, Dec. 19, 1829; by Wm. Bush, JP, Dec. 20, 1829, p. 62.
               Sanders, Jesse, to Catharine Arthur, TC, LA, Dec. 21, 1829; by Samuel Arthur, MG, Dec. 21,
                        1829, p. 63.
               Michael, Aron, to Rebecca Elliott, TC, LA (consent of John Elliott, her father), Dec. 22,
                        1829; by Zabina Babcock, JP, Dec. 31, 1829, p. 63.
               Stockton, Daniel, to Emily Scott, TC, LA, Dec. 23, 1829; by Samuel Arthur, MG, Dec. 24, 1829,
                        p. 64.
               Brewer, William, to Anne Fuller, TC, LA, Dec. 26, 1829; by Robert Cochrane, ECC, Dec. 27,
                        1829, p. 64.
               Scott, William, to Jane Sherry, TC, LA, Dec. 29, 1829; by Cyrus Ball, JP, Dec. 31, 1829, p.
                        65.
               Owens, Isaac, to Tabitha Tolliver, TC, LA (consent of John Tolliver, her father), Dec. 29,
                        1829; by Philip McCormick, JP, Jan. 1, 1830, p. 65.
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
