
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 81, Issue 1, pages 1-99. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:81+issue:1+year:1985&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Land Ordinance of 1785:
            A Bicentennial Review
            
                    George W. Geib
                    ∗
                
            Meeting in 
                        New York
                     in the early spring of 1785 the Articles of Confederation Congress turned its attention
                    to the western land question that had intermittently agitated the politics of the central government
                    for several years. The unsuccessful draft of a 1784 land ordinance was taken from the table and
                    promptly referred on March 16 to a grand committee headed by William Grayson of 
                        Virginia
                    .1 The creation of Grayson's committee was the logical
                    aftermath of one of the most significant achievements of the oft-maligned Confederation Congress:
                    the successful assertion of its authority over much of the trans-Appalachian West.
            By treaty with Great Britain following the Revolutionary War and by cessions from several key states
                    of much of their own western claims, Congress had become responsible for a public domain that
                    rivaled in size the combined areas of the thirteen seaboard states. The Peace of 
                        Paris
                     of 1783 had officially ended twenty years of sporadic attempts to restrain American
                    settlement beyond the mountains. The Proclamation of 1763 and the Quebec Act of 1774 were history,
                    replaced by boundaries that extended north to the Great Lakes, south to Spanish 
                        Florida
                    , and west to the Mississippi River. Even the areas won by western militia in the
                    Revolution paled by comparison to the treaty bounds.
            As the possibility of acquiring the vast western lands from 
                        England
                     had become more apparent during the treaty negotiations, such
                    "landless" states as 
                        Maryland
                    , whose colonial charters 
                  
                     ∗ George W. Geib is professor of history, 
                                Butler
                             University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 The story of the deliberations of Congress in this era is told in
                            detail in Edmund C. Burnett, The Continental Congress (
                                New York
                            , 19411, 613–32.
               
                    
                    
                  THE VARIOUS PROPOSALS FOR ORGANIZING THE WESTERN TERRITORY
                                CULMINATED IN THE ORDINANCE OF 1784, WHICH ESTABLISHED A GRID OF STATES, EACH COMPRISING—WITH
                            A FEW EXCEPTIONS—TWO DEGREES OF LATITUDE, BEGINNING
                                AT 45°. THE GRID WAS
                                TO APPLY "AS NEARLY" AS THE CESSIONS BY THE STATES TO CONGRESS WOULD PERMIT.
                  Reproduced from Lester J Cappon, et al, Atlas of Early American
                                History The Revolutionary Era, 1760–1790 (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J.: 
                                Princeton
                             University Press, for The Newberry Library and the Institute of Early American
                            History and Culture, 1976). Maps, p. 60. Reprinted by permission of 
                                Princeton
                             University Press.
                and grants served to fix their western borders, feared they would not be able to
                    participate in the development and exploitation of the new lands. All began to pressure the
                    "landed" states to cede their western claims to a common central authority. 
                        Maryland
                    's long delay in ratifying the Articles of Confederation was the most visible,
                    but hardly the only, tactic employed. The pressure produced results. One by one the
                    "landed" states began to cede much of their western claims. 
                        New York
                     led the way with a 1781 cession, Virginia had confirmed earlier promises with its 1784
                    action, and Massachusetts joined in 1785 while the report of Grayson's committee was being
                    debated. Others, beginning with Connecticut in 1786, soon followed.
            
            Historians are quick to point out that neither the diplomatic nor the political relinquishment of
                    western lands was total.2 Britain was already using alleged American violations
                    of the peace treaty to justify maintaining a military presence south of the Great Lakes—a
                    presence that helped the British to retain substantial influence among several northwestern Indian
                    tribes. Most of the "landed" states were holding back portions of their western
                    lands. 
                        Virginia
                    , for example, limited its cession to lands north of the Ohio
                    River—and even there reserved large military bounty lands along the Scioto
                    River as well as the smaller Clark grant near the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    . Despite each of these qualifications, however, the lands under congressional authority
                    remained large and served as the impetus for substantial pressure for land legislation.
            The host of potential western settlers and entrepreneurs that had developed over the quarter century
                    from 1760 to 1785 generated part of the demand for the sale of the western lands, but much came from
                    within Congress itself. Denied taxing authority by the Articles of Confederation, and unsuccessful
                    in periodic attempts to secure a tariff (or impost) amendment, the Congress was regularly strapped
                    for the funds to service the Continental debt or to meet other expenses. Little wonder that the
                    possibility of profit from land sales was enticing to many congressmen or that the ordinance
                    proposed by Grayson moved quickly to passage. Grayson's committee reported on April
                    12,1785, and debate began on April 14. The lack of a quorum, not unusual to that body, delayed a
                    second reading until May 5 and postponed the final consideration and vote until May 20 when a final
                    compromise measure passed unanimously.
            The text of the Land Ordinance of 1785 fills a little over six pages in Clarence E. Carter's
                        Territorial Papers,3 a brief length for a document of such
                    long-term significance. The principal feature of the act arranged for the division of the
                    "western territory"—after purchase from the Indian
                    inhabitants—into townships "six 
                  
                     2 Early studies of land policy were often descriptive accounts of
                            laws, treaties, and administrative rules that reveal a detailed acquaintance with the text
                            of the documents. See, for example, Shosuke Sato, History of the Land Question
                                in the 
                                    United States
                                 (Johns Hopkins University Studies in Historical and Political Science,
                            Series IV, Numbers 7–9; 
                                Baltimore
                            , 1886); Payson J. Treat, The National Land System,
                                1785–1820 (
                                New York
                            , 1910); and Bejamin H. Hibbard, A History of the Public Land
                                Policies (
                                New York
                            , 1924).
                  
                     3 Clarence Edwin Carter, ed., The Territorial Papers of
                                the 
                                    United States
                                
                     . Volume II, The Territory Northwest of the River 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1787–1803 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1934), 12–18.
               
                     miles square, by lines running due north and south and others
                    crossing these at right angles...." The work was to be done by surveyors, one from each
                    state, under the supervision of the geographer of the 
                        United States
                     and was to begin "on the river Ohio at a point that shall be found to be due
                    north from the western termination of a line which has been run as the southern boundary of the
                    state of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ...."
            Seven ranges of townships were to be surveyed initially, with each township to be composed of
                    thirty-six mile-square sections of 640 acres each. Detailed rules set forth the duties of the
                    surveyors, particularly for the record-keeping that would permit government sale after the survey
                    was completed. Half the townships, on an alternating basis, were to be sold entire; the other half
                    were to be offered by section lot. Four sections per township (as well as certain mineral lands)
                    were reserved for the 
                        United States
                    ; one more, section 16, was reserved "for the maintenance of public schools
                    within the said township ...." Sales would be conducted by public auction. A minimum price
                    of one dollar per acre, in specie or equivalent market value in loan office certificates, was
                    established, along with the text of title deeds and the detailed methods of sale and collection.
                    Pre-existing titles, of both 
                        Virginia
                    's claims and several Christian Indian towns, were acknowledged, as were the
                    rights of certain veterans who had received wartime promises of land from Congress.
            The brevity of the Ordinance of 1785 has not meant that the far-reaching consequences—and
                    origins—of its provisions have been overlooked. Well before the current bicentennial of
                    the act, the language of its text drew historians of the New West to search for the motives and
                    identities of its authors. In the early part of the twentieth century the name of Thomas Jefferson
                    attracted special attention. Jefferson had chaired the committee that had drafted the unsuccessful
                    1784 ordinance, and the Virginian's lifelong interest in the West made him a logical focus
                    for study. Many of the key ideas of the 1785 law could be found, in Jefferson's own
                    handwriting, in the 1784 draft, including the plan for rectangular townships and the quest for an
                    orderly sales process. Thus, even though Jefferson had gone on to his diplomatic appointment in 
                        France
                     in 1785, it seemed possible to credit him with a vital role in developing the
                        system.4
            
            The image of a central role for Jefferson began to fade during the decades of the 1920s and 1930s as
                    scholars directed greater 
                  
                     4 See, for example, Payson J. Treat, "Origin of the National
                            Land System Under the Confederation," Annual Report of the American
                                Historical Association for the Year 1905 (2 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1905), I, 231–39.
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from Hildegard Binder Johnson, Order upon the Land: The U.S.
                                Rectangular Land Survey and the Upper Mississippi Country (
                                New York
                            , 1976,), 58.
                  THE U.S. RECTANGULAR SURVEY SYSTEM. AFTER 1796 EACH TOWNSHIP WAS NUMBERED WITH REFERENCE TO A BASELINE AND PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND SUBDIVIDED
                                INTO 36 SECTIONS, ALWAYS NUMBERED AS SHOWN. THE ORDINANCE OF 1785 DID NOT SPECIFY THE SEQUENCE OF NUMBERING TO
                            BE USED FOR THE SECTIONS; EIGHT VARIATIONS WERE POSSIBLE.
                attention to records of Congress. In particular, Edmund C. Burnett's monumental
                    project with the letters of congressmen elicited a new appreciation of the complexity of that
                        body.5 Three interrelated themes affecting decisions on the western lands
                    question as well as other issues soon emerged: an enlarged role of sectional interests, a heightened
                    concern for economic motivations, and an expanded list of possible sources of ideas for western land
                    policy. Each helped to relegate Jefferson to the role of a single, 
                  
                     5 Edmund C. Burnett, ed., Letters of Members of the
                                Continental Congress (8 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1921–1936).
               
                     albeit influential, delegate in a much more elaborate process.
                    The correspondence of Grayson, chairman of the 1785 committee, was central to this reinterpretation.
                    Grayson was clear in his view of sectional rivalry: "I think there has been enough said and
                    wrote about it as would fill forty Volumes ... so difficult is it to form any system ... where the
                    interests of the component parts are suppos'd to be so different." In particular
                    he noted the need to "accommodate both the Eastern and Southern States,"6 and he later remarked, as a Virginian, about "the Eastern people
                    being amazingly attached to their own customs, and unreasonably anxious to have every thing
                    regulated according to their own pleasure.7
            
            The southern and eastern sectional differences noted by Grayson included alternative views of land
                    development in the two regions. The eastern (or New 
                        England
                    ) states accorded a central role to the towns within their borders and normally used the
                    township as the vehicle through which western expansion was set in motion. As Grayson stated,
                    "the idea of a township with the temptation of a support for religion and education, holds
                    forth an inducement for neighborhoods of the same religious sentiments to confederate for the
                    purpose of purchasing and settling together ...." Southerners, on the other hand, preferred
                    to emphasize the separate farm or plantation site, or "the idea of indiscriminate locations
                    and settlements ...."8 Each region also had its own type of survey and
                    sale techniques. Under the New 
                        England
                     system, clear boundaries, usually in the form of straight lines and right angles,
                    normally preceded sale and settlement. Under the southern system, land was purchased under warrants
                    that merely specified acres and general locations. Survey, if any, usually followed the occupation
                    of an attractive location of the appropriate size. This procedure often meant an initial southern
                    purchase less extensive than a full township. Because New 
                        England
                     township organizers ususally resold land in smaller and relatively equal portions, the
                    final result, however, was often a larger holding by a southern settler.
            Viewed in these terms, the Ordinance of 1785 was heavily influenced by New 
                        England
                     precedents. Apart from the concession that alternating townships would be sold by
                    section, the essential features were eastern: townships, linear boundaries, advance surveys, and
                    even land to support community schools. 
                  
                     6 William Grayson to Timothy Pickering, April 27, 1785, in ibid., VIII, 106.
                  
                     7 Grayson to James 
                                Madison
                            , May 1, 1785, in ibid., 109–10.
                  
                     8 Grayson to George 
                                Washington
                            , April 15, 1785, in ibid., 95.
               
                    
                    
                  AERIAL PHOTOGRAPH OF AN AREA IN NORTHWESTERN OHIO SUBDIVIDED IN THE
                                MANNER OF THE UNITED STATES
                                LAND SURVEY SYSTEM. The black
                            crosses indicate a quarter section (½ × ½ mile).
               
                    
                  AERIAL PHOTOGRAPH OF AN AREA IN THE
                                VIRGINIA MILITARY DISTRICT OF
                                OHIO SUBDIVIDED IN AN UNSYSTEMATIC MANNER.
                  Reproduced from N#2 J.W Thrower, Original Survey and Land
                                Subdivision: A Comparative Study of the Form and Effect of contrasting Cadastral
                            Surveys (
                                Chicago
                            , 1966), opposite 1. Both maps are from the Agricultural Stabilization and
                            Conservation Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
                                Washington
                            , DC., and both have a uniform scale.
               
                     Often forgotten is the fact the Congress almost added a further
                    provision to designate one section per township for the support of a local church. With seven states
                    needed to approve the idea, the vote was five yea, two nay, and two divided of the nine states
                        voting.9
            
            Important as such regionalism was in determining the final form of the ordinance, it was closely
                    allied to other, economic, considerations. Again Grayson set the tone when he noted: "Some
                    gentlemen looked upon it as a matter of revenue only" and voiced the concern that land
                    sales might depopulate the eastern seaboard or cause eastern land values to depreciate. Others
                    clearly feared the reverse through the effect of "speculators and ingrossers" who
                    would "have the effects of injuring the poorer class of people, or of establishing
                    monopolies. ..." Grayson himself was more impressed by the fact "that the Eastern
                    States, where lands are more equally divided than in any other part of the Continent" were
                    generally settled in the manner proposed.10 Yet the conflict of settler and
                    speculator, found on so many frontiers in American history, had still made itself heard for all who
                    were interested in economic factions and motives.
            Given the considerations suggested in the correspondence of members of the Confederation Congress, a
                    broadened search for authorship of the Ordinance of 1785 was clearly in order, and several
                    candidates quickly joined the two Virginians who had chaired the 1784 and 1785 committees. The New 
                        England
                     features pointed to the influence of a member from that region and frequently focused
                    attention on Rufus King, most vocal of the eastern congressmen. The stress upon survey and auction
                    technique suggested a spokesman familiar with sales and marketing and brought forth such names as
                    the 
                        Philadelphia
                     merchant and pamphleteer Pelatiah Webster.11 Perhaps the most
                    interesting discovery was 
                        North Carolina
                    's Hugh Williamson, who wrote to Governor Alexander Martin of that state about
                    the 1784 draft ordinance. "The plan for laying off and settling the Western Territory you
                    will find on the Journals .... However as I happen to have suggested the plan to
                    the Committee it is more than probable that I have parental prejudice in its favour. It has at least
                    the merit of being original."12 There was of course nothing
                    inconsistent with northern 
                  
                     9 Treat, National Land System, 36.
                  
                     10 Grayson to George 
                                Washington
                            , April 15, 1785, in Burnett, Letters, VIII, 95–97.
                  
                     11 A good recent treatment of these sources is N#2 J.W. Thrower, Original Survey and Land Subdivision... (
                                Chicago
                            , 1966).
                  
                     12 Hugh Williamson to Alexander Martin, July 5, 1784, in Burnett, Letters, VII, 563–64.
               
                     delegates of 1785 adding their ideas to a more southern-oriented
                    1784 act, and writers have noted the differences of the two bills—particularly in the
                    shift from warrants to advance surveys. One fact, however, seems well established: the Ordinance of
                    1785 was much more than the inspiration of a single individual.
            The immediate consequences of the land ordinance have also been of interest to historians, although
                    it quickly became apparent that those consequences were less momentous in the short run than one
                    might have expected. The initial area of the survey was limited to the seven ranges of townships in
                    the southeast corner of what later became 
                        Ohio
                    . Close to the supply center of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , and easily accessible from the Ohio River, the area's
                    greatest appeal probably lay in the comparative absence of hostile Indian activity. Although
                    government agents, supported by small western army garrisons, had been struggling, with limited
                    success, to bring the northwestern Indian conflict to an end for some time, a number of tribesmen
                    remained unpacified. Even in the Seven Ranges, survey was periodically interrupted when tribal
                    leaders refused to assure the surveyors' safety or when Colonel Josiah Harmar was required
                    to make other uses of the handful of troops at nearby Fort McIntosh.
            Thomas Hutchins, a career military officer who had accepted the post of geographer of the 
                        United States
                    , guided the first survey of the western lands. Aided by a fluctuating number of
                    surveyors from the various states, he needed over three years to complete both survey and paperwork.
                    Hutchins began in 1785 by drawing the East and West Line (later called the Geographer's
                    Line in his honor) westward from the junction of the Ohio River and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's western border. A year later his group completed survey of the first four
                    ranges south of that line, and in his absence in 1787 the surveyors finished the last three. The
                    notes, plats, and general plan were finally filed in July of 1788. The Seven Ranges were the only
                    lands surveyed under the terms of the Ordinance of 1785.13
            
            Sales of land in the Seven Ranges proved disappointing. A later Confederation Congress dropped the
                    original plan for land sales in the various states as outlined by the Ordinance of 1785, and the
                    only actual sales were held in 
                        New York
                     in 1787. Just over 100,000 acres, and no full townships, were sold for
                    $176,090. About a third of that acreage (and about half of the total sales value) was
                    forfeited when purchasers, taking advantage of a 1787 
                  
                     13 William D. Pattison, "The Survey of the Seven
                            Ranges," Ohio Historical Quarterly, LXVII (April, 1959),
                            115–40.
               
                    
                    
                  Reproduced from Lester J. Cappon, et al., Atlas of Early American
                                History: The Revolutionary Era, 1760–1790 (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J.: 
                                Princeton
                             University Press, for The Newberry Library and the Institute of Early American
                            History and Culture, 1976), Maps, p. 60. Reprinted by permission of 
                                Princeton
                             University Press.
               
                     credit provision that allowed one third down and two thirds in
                    three months, missed their second payment.
            Commentators at the time offered a variety of reasons for the poor land sales. Explanations ranged
                    from the quality of the rugged land to the remoteness of the sale site from the western settler. The
                    primary problems, however, were most likely the continued Indian menace and the alternative
                    opportunities created when Congress decided to make several large land grants in the area. Much of
                    the valley north of the Ohio was sold on generous terms to the Ohio Company, the Scioto Company, and
                    the Symmes Purchase, signaling at least a temporary abandonment of the 1785 system. It would only be
                    with the land law of 1796, under a new central government, that the Ordinance of 1785 would begin to
                    serve as a model for western surveys and sales.
            But a model it became. Later legislatures would debate many specific features of the 1785 design:
                    minimum price, minimum acreage to be sold, credit features, preemption rights, even the method of
                    numbering sections within townships. Yet the basic decisions for rectangular survey in advance of
                    sale and for clear title remained the rule for over a century.14 Geographers are
                    quick to point out that the resulting face of the western landscape, with its distinctive
                    checkerboard effect, is a uniquely American feature—and the term
                    "section" has achieved international usage as a description of American land use.
            The long-range success of the Ordinance of 1785 has encouraged further inquiry into its origins in
                    recent years, although less now as a matter of specific authorship than as a search for the broader
                    climate of opinion that made general acceptance of the system possible. Some have looked far back
                    into the Roman past, noting both the ancient emphasis upon rectangular survey and the new American
                    republic's fascination with Roman republican models. Others have sought the roots of the
                    township in the medieval English hundred and the pressures of the enclosure movement. Still others
                    judged significant the era's streak of utopianism, ranging from William Penn's
                    street plan for 
                        Philadelphia
                     to the new communities that found a congenial home on the moving frontier.15 Those historians who have looked closer to the time of the actual passage of
                    the ordinance have emphasized particularly the questions arising from military bounty lands.
            
               
                  14 A particularly useful study, stressing the administrative dimension of
                        the system, is Malcolm J. Rohrbough, The Land Office Business: The Settlement and
                            Administration of American Public Lands, 1789–1837 (
                            New York
                        , 1966).
               
                  15 Hildegard Einder Johnson, Order Upon the Land: The U.S.
                            Rectangular Land Survey and the Upper Mississippi Country (
                            New York
                        , 1976), 21–49.
            
            
            Revolutionary War recruits found the promise of a postwar grant of land an attractive alternative to
                    the payments in depreciated paper that were offered as enlistment bounties. Often paid in the form
                    of warrants that could be converted after the war to a western land claim, the bounties had clearly
                    been a major factor in forcing quick political action on the western question. Generated partly by
                    claims of the actual bounty holders, the pressure to settle the western lands issue had been sharply
                    reinforced by the claims of the "landless" states for a national presence in the
                    West and given particular shape by the need to consider the role of the speculators who were making
                    a market in the often-depreciated warrants. It is little wonder that an original provision of the
                    ordinance (a provision repealed only in 1788) gave certain priority to bounty claimants. Similar
                    legislative experiences in several states before 1785, particularly in the North, had also led to
                    laws and actual surveys that recent study suggests provided strong precedent for the cadastral
                    system of 1785.16
            
            Historical geographers have also pointed out that the final form of the survey of the Seven Ranges
                    might well be rooted in surveying techniques of the day. Any attempt to impose a straight
                    surveyor's line upon the curved surface of the earth imposed a challenge to the eighteenth
                    century, even with such precedents as the excellent survey of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's southern border to draw upon. The key tool used by Hutchins and his
                    surveyors was a circumferentor, a simple compass fitted with sight vanes and mounted upon a ball and
                    socket that fitted upon a "Jacob's staff' or upon a tripod. Although
                    originally required to use a true meridian, the surveyors were allowed in practice to use simple
                    compass readings to set their lines. The result was a close approximation, but only an
                    approximation, of the precision suggested in the ordinance. Survey technique, like land law itself,
                    needed to be refined.17
            
            Viewed in the context of its era, the Land Ordinance of 1785 thus emerges as a complex and
                    many-faceted piece of legislation. Its origins reflect both the complicated regional factionalism of
                    the Confederation era and the climate of enlightened rationalism and history within which its
                    authors moved. The law's immediate implementation calls attention to a small corner of
                    southeastern Ohio and to a few 
                        New York
                     auctions; yet, its long-range implications 
                  
                     16 The most useful study is Rudolf Freund, "Military Bounty
                            Lands and the Origins of the Public Domain," Agricultural
                            History, XX (January, 1946), 8–18.
                  
                     17 Pattison, "Survey of the Seven Ranges,"
                            134–36.
               
                     encompass many of the key features of the great transformation
                    of America's western landscape in the last two centuries. The Ordinance of 1785 may not
                    have merited great attention in its own time, but its consequences continue to command attention
                    today.
         
         
         
            
               PORTRAIT OF WILLIAM MERRITT CHASE BY JOHN SINGER SARGENT
               
               The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Gift of the Pupils of William Merritt Chase, 1905
                        105.331.
            
            
            Genteel Bohemian from Indiana:
            The Boyhood of William Merritt Chase
            
                    Keith L. Bryant, Jr.
                    ∗
                
            Nineteenth century Indiana produced a number of nationally and internationally acclaimed artists and
                    writers, but few attracted as much attention, or notoriety, as William Merritt Chase. From the
                    mid-1870s until his death in 1916, Chase played a dominant role in the artistic life of the nation.
                    As a painter he won numerous awards and was designated a National Academician. His works were
                    displayed by the leading museums, and he served on numerous juries for the major art exhibitions.
                    His portraits, landscapes, and still lifes featured bold colors, slashing brush-work, and a bravura
                    style that he learned at the Royal Academy in Munich, 
                        Germany
                    . Upon his return to the 
                        United States
                     in 1878, Chase began an illustrious teaching career at the Art Students'
                    League in 
                        New York
                    , and over the next thirty-seven years he became the nation's leading art
                    teacher at the 
                        New York
                     School of Art, 
                        Brooklyn
                     Art School, and the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . For over a decade he conducted a summer art school at Shinnecock, Long Island, and
                    then began to take art students to Europe each summer to visit the museums and to paint in Holland,
                            
                  Spain, Italy
               ,
                    and 
                        England
                    . His pupils would include some of the finest artists of the twentieth
                    century—Rockwell 
                        Kent
                    , Joseph Stella, Charles Demuth, and 
                        Georgia
                     O'-Keeffe, among others.1
            
            
               
                  ∗ Keith L. Bryant, Jr., is professor of history, 
                            Texas
                         A&M University, College Station, 
                            Texas
                        . He is writing a biography of William Merritt Chase.
               
                  1 General works on the life of William Merritt Chase include Katherine
                        Met-calf Roof, The Life and Art of William Merritt Chase (
                            New York
                        , 1917); Ronald G. Pisano, A Leading Spirit in American Art: William
                            Merritt Chase, 1849.1916 (Seattle, 1983); Robert J. Wickenden, "William
                        Merritt Chase," Dictionary of American Biography, II, part 2 (
                            New York
                        , 1929), 38–39.
            
            
            A bon vivant who dressed extravagantly and held open house at his elaborately furnished studios in 
                        New York City
                    , Chase became a leader in his profession; yet, his urbanity and cosmopolitanism were
                    only facades for the fundamental values that sprang from his Indiana boyhood. Chase's art
                    reflected his devotion to family, commitment to the work ethic, love of the outdoors, and patriotism
                    toward his country. His basic beliefs were established early in his life, and the subject matter of
                    his art and his commitment to teaching and to his profession reflect the two decades of his boyhood
                    in Indiana where his family had come as pioneers in the 1820s.
            The thousands of Kentuckians who immigrated to south central Indiana in the 1820s found a rolling
                    terrain heavily forested with tall oak, walnut, maple, and sycamore trees. Along the creeks
                    elderberry bushes crowded bittersweet and trumpet creeper. In the spring redbud and dogwood provided
                    a profusion of color to be followed by daisies, queen anne's lace, goldenrod, asters, and
                    sunflowers in the summer. Bears, wildcats, wolves, foxes, raccoons, and rabbits roamed the densely
                    wooded hills. Many families bearing the surname Chase settled in 
                  Brown, Bartholomew
               , and Johnson
                    counties in the heart of "darkest Hoosierdom." William, Avery, Abram, George, and
                    George W. Chase and their extended families came to exploit the rich soil along the creeks and to
                    raise cattle on the uplands2
            
            "Old" Hester Chase brought his family to 
                        Brown County
                     and preempted a hilltop at Gnaw Bone, a few miles east of 
                        Nashville
                    , the county seat. After his death, "Young" Hester, his son, farmed
                    the land and raised his family. "Old" Hester's grandson, David Hester
                    Chase, grew up on the farm where he was born into this poor but proud family. Life in southern
                    Indiana in the 1830s and 1840s was not far removed from the rough frontier. The few amenities
                    sometimes included a one-room schoolhouse that had infrequent and irregular sessions. The people
                    were not well educated and were suspicious of strangers. Their fundamentalist churches dominated the
                    rural communities, and preachers condemned card playing, drinking, and gambling as mortal sins. A
                    backwoods atmosphere prevailed with recreation found in coon hunts, spelling 
                  
                     2 Work Projects Administration, Indiana: A Guide to the
                                Hoosier State (
                                New York
                            , 19411, passim; Brant and Fuller, pubs., History
                                of 
                                    Johnson County
                                , Indiana, from the Earliest Time to the Present... (
                                Chicago
                            , 18881, passim; Genealogy Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , comp., Index, 1840 Federal Population Census, Indiana ([
                                Indianapolis
                            ], 1975), 57; U.S. Sixth Census, 1840, population schedules for 
                                Brown County
                            , Indiana (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. 704, Roll 75), 354; Elba
                            L. Branigin, History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 19131, 37–54.
               
                     matches, log rollings, and quilting parties. Poor roads helped
                    maintain the isolation of the region even as the settlers cleared the land and expanded agricultural
                        production.3
            
            Despite difficulties in travel and the seemingly endless tasks associated with frontier life in early
                    nineteenth century southern Indiana, David Chase found time to ride over the 
                        Brown County
                     line into the foothills of nearby 
                        Morgan County
                     to court Sarah Swaim. Sarah's father, Moses, had been born in 
                        North Carolina
                     in 1796 and like his Kentucky neighbors came to Indiana to farm. Moses looked David
                    Chase over with his dark, piercing eyes and consented to Sarah's marriage to this ambitious
                    young man, who planned to leave Hamblen Township in 
                        Brown County
                     and move to 
                        Williamsburg
                     in southeastern 
                        Johnson County
                     to establish a harness shop.4
            
            David and Sarah opened the shop in the late 1840s in a typical southern Indiana frontier community.
                    Settled in 1821 by farmers from Kentucky and 
                  Ohio,
                            Williamsburg
                developed around a dry goods
                    store located on the Edinburgh and Morgantown 
                        Pike
                    . A range of low hills swept up from the south, bearing off in a westerly direction. The
                    south branch of 
                        Nineveh
                     Creek curved through the town, its banks covered with wild grapevines. The town grew
                    slowly during the next decade, and because another community in the northern part of the state
                    already claimed the name 
                        Williamsburg
                    , the post office changed the town's name to 
                        Nineveh
                     after the township. David Chase located his shop on one of the tree-lined dirt streets
                    and occupied a small frame home located in a wooded area nearby. There, on November 1,1849,
                    seventeen-year-old Sarah's first child, William Merritt Chase, was born.5
            
            Within two years David acquired a partner in Benjamin I. Keaton and built a two-story brick general
                    store with a new frame home behind the mercantile. Although some of the farm families 
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 15, 1906; Edward Eggleston, The Hoosier
                                School-Master (orig., 1871; 
                                New York
                            , 1961), passim; Branigin, History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , 37–54.
                  
                     4 Portrait of Moses Swaim, Registrar's File, 74.243, 
                                Indianapolis
                             Museum of Art, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 15, 1906. David H. Chase paid his poll tax in 1848 in
                            Hamblen Township, 
                                Brown County
                            . Charles Blanchard, ed., Counties of Morgan, Monroe and 
                                    Brown
                                , Indiana: Historical and Biographical (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 745.
                  
                     5 J.H. Beers & Co., pubs., Atlas of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     ... (
                                Chicago
                            , 1881), 69, 70; David D. Banta, A Historical Sketch of 
                                    Johnson County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1881), passim; unidentified newspaper clipping quoting a
                            letter from Carrie Chase Roberts to Carolyn Gant of 
                                Nineveh
                            , Indiana, William Merritt Chase Archives (Parrish Art Museum, Southampton, 
                                New York
                            ); photograph of William Merritt Chase birthplace, 1927, Frank M. Hohenberger
                            Collection, Number 3 (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); photograph of Chase birthplace, Chase Vertical File (Stout Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                             Museum of Art).
               
                     were leaving 
                        Johnson County
                     in the 1850s and heading west to Illinois and 
                        Iowa
                    , others stayed and participated in the decade of Indiana's greatest growth.6 Railroad construction created new markets for agriculture, and mines and
                    quarries were soon opened; yet, in 1852 the state legislature authorized volunteer vigilantes to
                    arrest horse thieves, an indication that "civilization" had not yet completely
                    arrived. As corn production increased, farmers constructed larger two-story houses and expanded
                    their barns and outbuildings. 
                        Nineveh
                     grew and soon had Methodist Episcopal and Christian churches and a school building for
                    Districts 2 and 3. Along 
                        Cincinnati
                     Street new stores emerged, as did a sawmill, blacksmith shop, and slaughter house.
                    Houses sprang up along 
                        Georgetown
                     Road, 
                        Washington
                    , West, and South streets. Sarah helped organize the Methodist church, which erected a
                    building in 1853. The firm of Chase and Keaton prospered, and David also farmed one hundred acres
                    west of town. The Chase family also expanded in size with the arrival of George W. and Amanda.7
            
            
               
                        Nineveh
                     matured in the 1850s. Fewer families raised chickens and pigs in their unfenced yards;
                    the school met more frequently; and Mrs. Lacey, "the school marm," had additional
                    pupils, including young "Merritt" Chase. Sarah Chase was undoubtedly ready for
                    Merritt to attend school for his behavior was not untypical of rural boys. Once she left him with
                    neighbors while she went on an errand and told him not to pick the ripe pears on the
                    neighbor's tree located in the front yard. When she returned, the fruit remained on the
                    tree, or at least the cores were there, as young Merritt had neatly eaten several of the pears as
                    they hung from the tree.8 Merritt played ball with the town children and
                    probably swam nude in the creek in the summer time. A neighbor would remember him as "a
                    right smart chunk of a boy."9
            
            One of Merritt's schoolteachers taught drawing after the regular session ended, and soon the
                    boy was making pencil sketches 
                  
                     6 Credit Reports, 
                                Johnson County
                            , Indiana, Volume 52, Entries 211 and 233, R.G. Dun and Co. Collection (Baker
                            Library, 
                                Harvard
                             University Graduate School of Business Administration, 
                                Boston
                            ); Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                                1850–1880 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1965), passim;
                            
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Post-Dispatch, February 4, 1917.
                  
                     7
                            Indiana: A Guide to the Hoosier State, passim;
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 15, 1906; Atlas of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , 20–21, 27, 47, 70; Branigin, History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                
                     , 368–69; History of 
                                    Johnson County
                                 from the Earliest Time to the Present, 557; 
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Post-Dispatch, February 4, 1917; Roof, Life and Art of
                                William Merritt Chase, 2–3; Credit Reports, 
                                Johnson County
                            , Indiana, Volume 52, Entry 233, R.G. Dun and Co. Collection.
                  
                     8 Roof, Life and Art of William Merritt Chase,
                            2–3; Logan Esarey, Indiana Home (
                                Bloomington
                            , 19531, passim.
                  
                     9
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 15, 1906.
               
                     of animals, trees, and buildings in his drawing book. He drew
                    pictures of his family and friends and "Uncle Sammy" Dunham at his
                    cobbler's bench. Soon his bedroom walls were covered with pencil and watercolor drawings.
                    His teachers found him sketching when arithmetic and spelling had been assigned, and even his
                    schoolmates failed to appreciate his talents. He later recalled: "I am not sure that it is
                    a bad thing to go to a school, as I did, where the boys threw things at me, and asked if there was
                    nothing else I could do."10
            
            While his brother George said that all Merritt had to do was to make a few marks to create a picture,
                    during their early adolescence George had to hold the head of one of his father's calves
                    between his knees so that his brother could do the calf s portrait in house paint. "My
                    knees got tired and the calf got tired, but Bill didn't. He kept on painting till he had
                    finished the job."11 Like all brothers Merritt and George had their
                    rivalries. When David Chase offered to take his eldest son on a buggy ride to 
                        Franklin
                    , the county seat, George offered Merritt his pony if he could be the one to go. Merritt
                    took the pony, but when David returned and found out about the trade, he forced Merritt to give the
                    pony back. Merritt would remember the incident many years later and resent the parental
                        intervention.12
            
            Although war clouds gathered in Indiana in the late 1850s and early 1860s, the state's
                    population boomed and the railway network expanded. Hoosiers argued vehemently first over the
                    slavery issue and then the question of secession; nevertheless, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the center of the state's economy and politics, grew from a town of eight
                    thousand in 1850 to a small city of eighteen thousand a decade later.13 David
                    Chase decided to sell his business in 
                        Johnson County
                     and to relocate in the nearby state capital.
            Chase and Keaton had remained in business in 
                        Nineveh
                     until 1858, when David acquired a new partner and renamed his firm Chase and Mathews.
                    The new company did a "fair country business." They were "prompt and
                    honest" and were "good for small bills." By 1860 the firm had become
                    Chase and Schofield, and the new partner added to the meager capital. While considered
                    "good men" and "honest," there was not much future in 
                        Nineveh
                    . Old-timers would remember that Chase had ten thousand to twelve thousand dollars in
                    capital after his property was sold, but it is 
                  
                     10 Roof, Life and Art of William Merritt Chase,
                            3–4.
                  
                     11 Unidentified and undated newspaper clipping, Chase folder, Clipping
                            File (
                                Cincinnati
                             Museum of Art, 
                        Cincinnati,
                                    Ohio
                     ).
                  
                     12 Roof, Life and Art of William Merritt Chase,
                            5–6.
                  
                     13 Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                            passim.
               
                     doubtful he had one tenth of that amount to invest in another
                    business. In 1861 the Chase family moved only thirty-seven miles to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In terms of the culture and society the distance was much further, and the impact on
                    young Merritt would be marked indeed.14
            
            Twelve-year-old Merritt might well have been excited about moving to the state's capital and
                    largest city. 
                        Indianapolis
                     increased in size to over forty-eight thousand people during the 1860s and became a
                    major trading center. While the state capital reflected the "puritanical" views of
                    its rural hinterland,15 there were theaters—Adelina Patti gave two
                    concerts in 1863—-and touring opera and theatrical companies visited the community
                    regularly. For the adolescent Chase life must have become a great adventure, for who could have
                    resisted watching a balloon ascension or attending the circus or perhaps seeing President-elect
                    Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     when he spoke at the Bates House Hotel on February 11, 1861, on his way to 
                        Washington
                    . And, of course, there was a whole city to explore. Long tree-shaded streets in a
                    rectilinear pattern linked the two-story homes in the residential areas with the business center on 
                        Washington
                     Street. The newly arrived immigrants crowded the stores in the business blocks and
                    created the atmosphere that had attracted David Chase.16
            
            Located in the Glenn's Block on East 
                        Washington
                     Street, between 
                        Meridian
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the 
                        New York
                     Boot and Shoe Store, owned by Chase and Adelbert Dawes, was only one of many new
                    businesses in the three- and four-story structures in the city's central district. Dawes
                    had been in the shoe business for several years and was considered "fast" and
                    "fond of women." Chase and Dawes were men "of limited means" who
                    owned no real estate and had stock valued at only five thousand dollars. They did a good business
                    and were thought to be honest and reliable.17 The Chases lived nearby at 20
                    North 
                        Delaware
                    , and from there each morning David and his son went to the store to sell the latest
                    merchanaise. Merritt worked at the store when school was not in session and probably caught the eye
                    of the ladies who shopped for shoes. David Chase created a separate room for 
                  
                     14 Credit Reports, 
                                Johnson County
                            , Indiana, Volume 52, Entry 233, R.G. Dun and Co. Collection.
                  
                     15 Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                            passim.
                  
                     16 Jacob Piatt Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                : The History, the Industries, the Institutions, and the People of a City of
                                Homes (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1910), I, 138, 147, 158, 202–16.
                  
                     17
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis City
                                 Directory and Business Mirror (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1863), 14; Indiana: A Guide to the Hoosier State, 68, 210;
                            Credit Reports, 
                                Marion County
                            , Indiana, Volume 67, Entries 174 and 284, R.G. Dun and Co. Collection.
               
                    
                    
                  WILLIAM MERRITT CHASE,
                            C. 1861
                  Reproduced from Katherine Metcalf Roof, The Life and Art of William
                                Merritt Chase (
                                New York
                            , 1917; reissue, 
                                New York
                            , 1975), opposite 6.
               
                     ladies so that they could try on footwear out of public gaze.
                    Enveloped by Victorian modesty, they slipped on shoes and walked about on the room's red
                    carpet while the handsome young Merritt with his narrow lips and wide eyes brought more shoes for
                    them to inspect. Years later Chase remembered that he had a genius for selling shoes to ladies; his
                    secret was to sell a pair one size smaller than that which they had been wearing.18
            
            While young Merritt may have felt that he was an accomplished salesman, his father was clearly not
                    succeeding in his business. He acquired a new partner and a new location in 1864 in a venture called
                    Chase & Cady Ladies' Shoe Store across 
                        Washington
                     Street from the old store. A year later he became a partner in Chase, Ludington and
                    Cady at the same site. David Chase moved his family to another residence at 159 Virginia Avenue as
                    his business fortunes declined. Within a year his name was removed from the partnership, and by 1867
                    he had opened David H. Chase Boots and Shoes Wholesale and Retail next door to his old store. Credit
                    reports continued to stress his good character but also his lack of business acumen. The high rent
                    on the store precluded profits, and his home, valued at $1,200, was heavily mortgaged.
                    Business directories for 1867 and 1868 listed as a salesman in the store one William M. Chase, who
                    was a most unhappy young man.19
            
            After the family moved to a house on East Michigan Road on the outskirts of the city near the Deaf
                    and Dumb Institute, Merritt attended a district school. From the Chases' pleasant country
                    home he walked to school with George, Amanda, and other children, but once there he spent most of
                    his time drawing pictures of Indians on the blackboard with colored chalk. As one of the older boys,
                    he helped the smaller children, and when the ground was covered with snow, he pulled two little
                    girls on a sled to and from the district school. He called them his "Red Riding
                    Hoods" as they wore that style of dress, which was then much in vogue. But he was not
                    happy. He disliked clerking in the store and felt that he was not accepted by the other boys. A very
                    sensitive adolescent, Merritt dreamed of running away from home, 
                  
                     18
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, December 21, 1948; Roof, Life and Art of William
                                Merritt Chase, photograph opposite 6; William Merritt Chase, "Lecture to
                            Art Students," January 15, 1916, typescript (Thomas J. Watson Library, Metropolitan
                            Museum of Art, 
                                New York City
                            ).
                  
                     19 The vagaries of David Chase's business ventures can be
                            traced in 
                        
                                    Indianapolis City
                                 Directory and Business Mirror (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1864); 
                        
                                    Indianapolis City
                                 Directory (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1865); and Edward's Annual Directory (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1865–1866); Credit Reports, 
                                Marion County
                            , Indiana, Volume 68, Entry 369, R.G. Dun and Co. Collection.
               
                     but his affection for his mother deterred him. He had
                    responsibilities to work in what was an unsuccessful business, and he had to help with the expanding
                    family. There would eventually be five younger brothers and sisters.20
            
            Much to his father's continued annoyance, Merritt spent many of his working hours drawing on
                    brown wrapping paper or standing on an iron grate in front of Lieber's Art Store looking at
                    the chromos in the windows. Indeed, he got frostbitten toes on one occasion while staring at the
                    lithographs. His school books were covered with drawings, and just at the busiest time of the day in
                    the store he would be behind a counter working with colored pencils while customers waited. His
                    behavior infuriated David Chase, who sought to save his business and feed his family while his
                    eldest son drew pictures. Sarah Chase encouraged Merritt, and her penchant for decorative works made
                    with colored feathers, a Victorian rage, may have heightened his interest in working with his
                    pencils. She saved the drawings in his books and even at one point became a reluctant model. Merritt
                    decided to make a plaster cast of his mother's face without knowing how, and the plaster
                    hardened so rapidly that he had to chip it off her face, thus frightening his brother and sister. A
                    second try led to a successful cast. David Chase was undoubtedly happy that no permanent damage had
                    been done to his wife, but he remained irritated at all the drawings on the white shoe boxes at the
                        store.21
            
            Members of the family did become increasingly interested in the drawings of themselves that young
                    William made. He drew a rather tender portrait of Sarah Chase holding baby-sister Carrie on her lap.
                    The crude technique reveals an untrained young man seeking to please his family. Another drawing,
                    possibly of his grandmother, shows an elderly lady, a smile on her face, sewing the pants of a very
                    angry, bare-legged little boy who stands next to her. Chase called it "His Only Pair of
                    Pants." On a trip to visit an uncle in a nearby community William attracted the attention
                    of the townspeople with a portrait of a young cousin. George Chase recalled that William left
                    drawings wherever he went.22 These crude paintings were but the first of a large
                    number of works 
                  
                     20
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, April 25, 1903; Julia Grayson Sharpe to J. Arthur MacLean, July 1,
                            1923, "Fish" Curator's Historical File (
                                Indianapolis
                             Museum of Art); Edward's Annual Directory (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1867); Roof, Life and Art of William Merritt Chase, 5.
                  
                     21
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, January 28, 1912; J. Walker McSpadden, Fanous Painters
                                of America (
                                New York
                            , 1916), 329–31; unidentified and undated newspaper clipping, Chase
                            folder, Clipping File (
                                Cincinnati
                             Museum of Art); 
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Post-Dispatch, February 4, 1917; Roof, Life and Art of
                                William Merritt Chase, 12.
                  
                     22
                            
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Post-Dispatch, February 4, 1917.
               
                     depicting Chase's family. Throughout his career many of
                    his most sensitive and memorable paintings were those of his wife Alice, whom he married in 1886,
                    their children, his sister, and sisters-in-law. Chase's devotion to his family, established
                    early in his life, would remain one of his most important values. Eventually adolescent rebellion
                    and stubbornness wore down even David Chase. Clearly his eldest son, who insisted that he be called
                    "William," not "Merritt," was not going to be a satisfactory
                    shoe clerk. The father conceded: "William, you have spoiled wrapping paper enough here. Put
                    on your hat and come with me. I am going to take you to Hays."23
            
            Barton S. Hays occupied a studio on the third floor of the Talbott and New Block Building on North
                    Pennsylvania Street next to the old post office. One of a dozen artists who lived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the 1860s and 1870s, Hays found work painting portraits and selling still lifes. He,
                    Jacob Cox, James M. Dennis, and others exhibited at Herman Lieber's Art Store, the Indiana
                    State Fair, and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Art Society. Although he initially supported himself as a tinsmith, Cox became
                    Indiana's first professional painter. He had no academic training, but he knew some leading
                    artists in 
                        New York
                    , such as Joseph O. Eaton and Thomas Worthington Whittredge. Indeed, Eaton had studied
                    with Cox before going to 
                        New York
                    . Hays too was self-taught and initially painted panoramas at a time when vast canvases
                    of historical subjects were very popular. Both Hays and Cox painted rather raw still lifes not
                    unlike those of the eighteenth century baroque period, and Cox produced romantic landscapes. Hays
                    also tinted photographs and operated a Daguerrean establishment. Since the Hays studio was located
                    only a few steps from the shoe store, it would seem that young William had probably been a visitor
                    there before and knew of Cox, who was the center of the city's artistic life. Both Hays and
                    Cox had accepted students before and had taught them their simple and direct techniques.24
            
            Hays charged David Chase twenty dollars per month, and he set his young protege to work copying in
                    oil a steel engraving of a picture by Rosa Bonheur. Chase later recalled that this teaching
                    technique was "of no earthly advantage to me as an art student," 
                  
                     23
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 14, 1899.
                  
                     24 Wilbur Peat, Pioneer Painters of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1954), 62, 78, 152–56, 167–69, 180–81, 232;
                            Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 477–78, 480; Arthur F. Jan-son, "The Hoosier
                            School" (
                                Indianapolis
                            , n.d.1, passim; Indiana: A Guide to the Hoosier State,
                            127–28; Mary Q. Burnet, Art and Artists of Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1921), 78–112. Janson's "The Hoosier
                            School" is a small brochure distributed to visitors to the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Museum of Art as a gallery guide.
               
                     but he persevered. One of his first serious paintings was of his
                    father seated reading a newspaper. David Chase still felt that there was a limited financial future
                    for an artist in the family but proudly placed the portrait in the window of his shoe store. William
                    also did some "cattle" pieces that he exhibited. A black and white crayon portrait
                    of Captain Wallace Foster, drawn on brown paper in 1866, showed the considerable growth that William
                    had achieved under Hays's tutelage. Foster, who operated a men's clothing store
                    near the Chase enterprise, reluctantly agreed to pose for the young artist. Working with a crayon in
                    one hand and a slice of wheat bread in the other, William finished the study after two sittings.
                    Foster gave Chase five dollars for the painting, the first commission the artist received, but the
                    oval portrait with its expressionless eyes only hints at the talents young Chase possessed.25
            
            In the late 1860s Chase painted numerous portraits, and his technique and style reflected those of
                    Hays and Cox. He drew a crayon portrait of Mary Elizabeth Browning and painted oils of Benjamin
                    Love, William Orbison, and two lawyers in nearby 
                        Franklin
                    , James B. McFadden and William Gurley Munson. The handsome Munson was a friend of the
                    young artist, and Chase painted him in a frontal shoulder-length view. Munson's expression
                    is vague and formal, and his eyes stare straight ahead. There is no hint of the slashing brushwork
                    of the Chase of the 1870s. A flat light illuminates the forehead against the dark background in a
                    camera-like rendering; yet, this portrait of 1868 is decidedly more polished than that of
                    Chase's grandfather, Moses Swaim, painted the year before. William had presented his
                    maternal grandfather in a painting almost wholly lacking in detail and possessing a strong
                    "primitive" quality. Clearly he had learned from working with Hays and from the
                    suggestions received from Cox. Formal portrait painting would ultimately become one of his primary
                    sources of income and fame, and he painted many portraits of his friends, fellow artists, and
                        patrons.26
            
            While Chase matured as an artist, he continued to clerk in his father's shoe shop, and he
                    continued to resent it. Like so many 
                  
                     25
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 14, 1899, July 27, 1940; William Forsyth, Art
                                in Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 7; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, January 31, 1910; portrait, "Captain Wallace
                            Foster," 
                                Indianapolis
                             Museum of Art; Burnet, Art and Artists of Indiana, 172.
                  
                     26
                            William Merritt Chase, 1849–1916: A Retrospective Exhibition, June
                                30-July 27, 1957 (Southampton, N.Y., 1957), n.p.; Peat, Pioneer
                                Painters of Indiana, 81, 179, 227; portraits, "William Gurley
                            Munson" and "Moses Swaim," 
                                Indianapolis
                             Museum of Art; Janson, "The Hoosier School"; William Merritt Chase: Portraits (
                                Akron
                            , 1982), 7.
               
                    
                    
                  PORTRAIT OF CAPTAIN [WALLACE] FOSTER
                  
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Museum of Art, Museum Accession
                other romantic midwestern boys he began to dream of joining the navy and sailing around
                    the world. Another clerk shared information with William about the naval apprentice program and the
                    opportunity to become a seaman on the training ship 
                        
                            Portsmouth
                        
                    .27 Unable to obtain enough recruits after the end of the Civil War, the
                    Department of the Navy developed an apprentice program and sought young men from the Midwest as
                    participants. From 1866 to 1869 boys between the ages of sixteen and eighteen 
                  
                     27 Roof, Life and Art of William Merritt Chase,
                            8–9
               
                    
                    
                  WILLIAM GURLEY MUNSON,
                            C. 1868
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Museum of Art, Bequest of Gladys Munson Wurzburg.
                were recruited. Scheduled to remain in the navy until they reached age twenty-one, most
                    bolted at the first opportunity.28 Young William and his friend decided to
                    escape their dreary lives as store clerks by enrolling in this rough, hazardous program.
            Chase signed apprenticeship papers and traveled east to 
                        Philadelphia
                     on July 22, 1867. After a few weeks on the USS 
                        
                            Vermont
                        
                    , 
                  
                     28 Frederick S. Harrod, Manning the New Navy: The
                                Development of a Modern Naval Enlisted Force, 1899–1940 (
                                Westport
                            , Conn., 1978), 5–9, 10–13, 17–23.
               
                    
                    
                  MOSES SWAIM, C. 1867
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Museum of Art, Mr. and Mrs. Julius F. Pratt Fund
                Chase was transferred to 
                        Annapolis
                     where he joined his classmates on the 
                        
                            Portsmouth
                        
                    . Commissioned in 1844, this once handsome twenty-gun sloop had been part of the 
                        United States
                     Far Eastern fleet and had participated in the Mexican War. Her long and distinguished
                    career as a cruiser had ended, however, and the 
                        
                            Portsmouth
                        
                     was reduced to a cadet training vessel. She had been refitted in June of 1867, and Commander
                    Joseph S. Skerrett was placed in command. It took a crew of 210 to man the 1,022-ton ship, and they
                    were a tough lot. Far from home, sensitive to  criticism, and
                    sick at heart, if not from the sea, William realized that he had made a terrible mistake. The
                    ship's muster roll described this third-class apprentice as a "school
                    boy" 5 feet, 4 1/2 inches tall with blue eyes, black hair, and dark skin and with a small
                    heart—possibly a tattoo—on his left forearm. The discipline of the ship was
                    unlike any situation William had faced before, and one petty officer in particular gave him many
                    unpleasant tasks. Young Chase and his colleagues did exalt when their tormentor lost his foothold
                    one day and fell into the sea, but other than watching one of the officers paint marine scenes,
                    William found no comfort aboard the 
                        
                            Portsmouth
                        
                    . From behind a longboat he observed the artist at an easel and almost undoubtedly longed for 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the security of Hays's studio and his family's hearth. A picture
                    taken of this young cadet shows a thin boy with a rakish look wearing a blue uniform with brass
                    buttons at the top of the pants pockets. Stars decorated the cuffs and the center of his shirt. A
                    porkpie hat set at an angle on his head fails to persuade the viewer that this is a masculine sailor
                    of the seven seas or even a happy young apprentice. After three months William appealed to his
                    father to obtain his discharge, and David Chase went east, arranged for his son's release,
                    bought him a new suit of clothes, and took him home.29
            
            William returned to the house on the outskirts of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and his parents gave him a large room for a studio. He sought out Hays for art lessons
                    and Cox for advice and counsel. He also found his way back to the shoe store. Hays and Cox
                    recognized Chase's maturation and realized that the young artist had learned all he could
                    from them; David Chase concluded that William was not destined for success in the shoe business.
                    While Chase clearly owed a greater debt to Hays, he referred to Cox as his "father in
                    art," and his mentor's help and advice were crucial. William brought his paintings
                    to Cox for criticism though the artist remembered: "He [Chase] was not a pupil of mine,
                    though I often gave him instruction and advice." Both Hays and Cox knew Joseph O. Eaton,
                    who had painted portraits in 
                        Indianapolis
                     several years earlier and who had become a teacher at the National 
                  
                     29 Pisano, A Leading Spirit in American Art, 24;
                            Robert W. Nesser, "Historic Ships of the Navy, ‘
                                Portsmouth
                            ,’ " 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Naval Institute Proceedings, LII (July, 1926), 1350–52;
                            Howard I. Chapelle, The History of the American Sailing Navy (
                                New York
                            , 1949), 436–38; "Complete Descriptive Muster Roll of the
                            Crew of the U.S. Ship 
                                Portsmouth
                            ," August 21, 1867, Bureau of Naval Personnel, Naval Records Collection
                            of the Office of Naval Records and Library, Record Group 24 (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.); Roof, Life and Art of William Merritt Chase,
                            8–10; Samuel G. W. Benjamin, Our American Artists (
                                Boston
                            , 1886), 60, 63; 
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Post-Dispatch, February 4, 1917.
               
                    
                    
                  WILLIAM MERRITT CHASE AS
                            A SAILOR ON THE
                            PORTSMOUTH
                     , 1868
                  Reproduced from Katherine Metcalf Roof, The Life and Art of William
                                Merritt Chase (
                                New York
                            , 1917, reissue, 
                                New York
                            , 1975), opposite 10.
               
                     Academy of Design in 
                        New York City
                    . They recommended to William, and to his father, that the young man study with Eaton.
                    Reluctantly David Chase agreed and arranged for several shoe wholesalers in 
                        New York City
                     to look after his twenty-year-old son. Armed with letters of introduction to Eaton from
                    Hays and Cox and with letters to his father's business acquaintances, William boarded the
                    train for 
                        New York
                     and the 1869 session of the National Academy of Design.30
            
            For the would-be sailor who had been to the East Coast only once before, 
                        New York City
                     was a decided shock. Even the train station reflected the commercial boom being
                    experienced by the city as Commodore Cornelius Vanderbilt had erected the huge Grand Central Depot
                    at Forty-second Street. William passed under the vast glass roof of the train shed into Fourth
                    Avenue, which was filled with horse-drawn wagons, carriages, coaches, and trolleys. He traveled
                    downtown to seek out Eaton who made him welcome and helped him enroll at the Academy.31
            
            The excitement of the city carried over into the nation's leading art school, which, too,
                    was gradually rejecting the past and slowly moving away from classical training methods to an
                    emphasis on technique. Some of the best of the professionally trained artists no longer spent hours
                    laboriously copying earlier works and then using that approach for their own paintings. At the
                    urging of some instructors the young artists were being taught to paint with bolder strokes, to use
                    more color, and to abandon minute detail for simpler lines, but the conservative landscapists who
                    dominated the Academy refused to support the demands to "modernize" the curriculum
                    following the new European approaches. What an exciting place for the boy from Indiana to find
                    himself and to discover other young men who shared his zeal.32
            
            Several of Chase's colleagues at the Academy later became distinguished artists, including
                    first-year student J. Alden Weir and Albert Pinkham Ryder, who had entered a class the year before.
                    They studied at the Academy and often worked with senior 
                  
                     30 Peat, Pioneer Painters of Indiana,
                            177–78; Clara E. Clement Waters and Laurence Hutton, Artists of the
                                Nineteenth Century and Their Works (
                                Boston
                            , 1894), 133; the Cox quotation is in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 13, 1879, and January 14, 1899; Burnet, Art
                                and Artists of Indiana, 88, 90; "Ishmael," "Through the 
                                New York
                             Studios," Illustrated American, V (February 14,
                            1891), 616, 618.
                  
                     31 Clarence P. Hornung, The Way It Was: 
                                    New York
                                , 1850–1890 (
                                New York
                            , 1977), 8–9, 44.
                  
                     32 Peat, Pioneer Painters of Indiana, 99,
                            159–62, 230; H. Wayne Morgan, New Muses: Art in American Culture,
                                1865–1920 (
                                Norman
                            , Okla., 1978), 78–84.
               
                     painters who gave private lessons. Chase's primary
                    instructor was Lemuel E. Wilmarth, who did broaden the curriculum as a result of his studies in 
                        Paris
                     and Munich. Chase also studied with the generous Eaton, who had loaned the young
                    Hoosier his studio while he made a trip to Europe and who in the 1860s was a benefactor to many
                    young painters. Upon Eaton's return William obtained his own studio in the YMCA Building at
                    Fourth Avenue and East 23rd Street across the street from the National Academy. Eaton remained a
                    friend and mentor and painted an attractive portrait of his protégé. The
                    portrait shows a handsome young man whose most distinguishing facial features were a rather
                    prominent nose and a full mustache.33 What stories William must have had for his
                    parents, Cox, and Hays when he returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in April after his first winter term at the Academy.
            Chase again worked with Hays until the fall term of the Academy began. He set up an easel in
                    Hays's studio on 
                        Meridian
                     Circle where David Munsey, a still life painter, also shared space. Clearly Chase had
                    moved beyond Hays after only one session in 
                        New York
                    . He worked with a well-organized palette and with masterful brushstrokes. During this
                    summer Chase painted a large genre scene of an elderly 
                        German
                     barber cutting the hair of a weeping youngster as well as portraits and still lifes.34 His aptitude for the latter subjects would soon prove to be of substantial
                    fiscal importance as well as artistic fulfillment.
            After Chase returned to 
                        New York
                     and the Academy for the spring term in 1870, David Chase's financial reversals
                    continued, and he lost the last of his investment in the shoe store. From 1867 on he had failed to
                    make any money from the business, and credit reports suggested that he should liquidate the firm.
                    His old friend Schofield joined him again as a partner and endorsed his notes, but by March of 1870
                    the business was dissolved, leaving David Chase "worthless." He wrote his son that
                    he would not be able to provide further support for his education as an artist. In 
                        New York
                     the devastated William sought Eaton's advice as to how to continue his
                    training. The older artist counseled him to seek portrait 
                  
                     33 W. Lewis Fraser, "Open Letters: ‘The
                            Century's American Artist Series,’ William Merritt Chase," The Century, XLV (November, 1892), 156; Dorothy Weir Young, The Life and Letters of J. Alden Weir (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1960), 13; William H. Gerdts, American Impressionism
                            (Seattle, 1980), 71; Roof, Life and Art of William Merritt Chase, opposite
                            18; Lois Marie Fink and Joshua C. Taylor, Academy: The Academic Tradition in
                                American Art (
                                Chicago
                            , 1978), 1–14.
                  
                     34
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 5, 1916; Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 480.
               
                    
                    
                  PORTRAIT OF WILLIAM MERRITT CHASE BY J. O. EATON, PAINTED IN NEW YORK IN 1870
                  Reproduced from Katherine Metcalf Roof, The Life and Art of William
                                Merritt Chase (
                                New York
                            , 1917, reissue, 
                                New York
                            , 1975), opposite 18.
                commissions in Yonkers, where Eaton made his home, and to paint still lifes of fruits and
                    flowers, which were much in vogue among upper middle-class Victorian families. Chase's
                    portrait of Margaret Creighton Bateman of Shelter Island, 
                        New York
                    , shows Eaton's influence both in monetary and artistic matters. A far more
                    delicately painted portrait than that of William Gurley Munson, the Bateman painting reveals that
                    Chase's technique, particularly in delineating the dress, had advanced substantially. Mrs.
                    Bateman's expression reveals little of her personality, but there is a light touch in the
                    V-necked dress and the yellow rose 
                    
                  MRS. MARGARET CREIGHTON BATEMAN, C. 1870
                  San Diego Museum of Art, Post Office Box 2107, San Diego, 
                                California
                            .
                at the bodice.35 Chase focused his efforts on portraiture and still
                    life, and at the Forty-sixth Annual Exhibition of the Academy in 1871, he showed "Blue
                    Plums" and "Catawba Grapes," both of which were for sale, and a portrait
                    of fellow art student W. S. 
                  
                     35
                            Edward's 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Directory (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1869); Credit Reports, 
                                Marion County
                            , Indiana, Volume 69, Entry 488, R.G. Dun and Co. Collection; portrait,
                            "Margaret Creighton Bateman," San Diego Museum of Art (San Diego, 
                                California
                            ); Abraham David Milgrome, "The Art of William Merritt Chase"
                            (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Art History, University of 
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1969), 12–14.
               
                     Macy. The painting of catawba grapes demonstrated by its extreme
                    detail that the influence of Hays and Cox had not been entirely lost and suggested that the academic
                    training of the Academy had in some respects stifled his development.36 While
                    there had been some changes in the methods of the Academy, the older instructors still emphasized
                    drawing rather than painting, and the pupils spent hours preparing copies of casts in the academic
                    manner. Chase made drawings of painstaking accuracy that pleased the instructors but came to bore
                    the young artist.
            Although Chase hated the tedious classes at the Academy, he found other aspects of the
                    artists' life challenging and stimulating. There were his friends among his fellow artists,
                    such as Weir and Ryder, and the new Metropolitan Museum of Art, which opened in the spring of 1871
                    and presented the Academy novices with a broader range of western European art, especially the
                    paintings of the Renaissance. At the Academy Chase found that to enter "a classroom filled
                    with casts of the antique is as disen-heartening as to go into a graveyard";37 nevertheless, he continued to improve his technique, broaden his concept of style, and
                    earn enough money painting fruit and flower still lifes and portraits in Yonkers to stay at the
                    Academy and to purchase a railway ticket to visit his family in 
                        St. Louis
                    .
            Following the loss of his business, David Chase had moved his family to 
                        St. Louis
                    , and William decided to visit them and later to open a studio there. In 
                        New York
                     the competition for portrait commissions was keen, and it appeared that the mid-western
                    city offered better prospects. Too, his expenses would be less, and he could help the large family
                    of Chases.38 Accounts differ as to when William established himself in 
                        St. Louis
                    . There is evidence that he visited his family at Christmas in 1869; certainly by the
                    fall of 1870 he had settled in the city and had opened 
                  
                     36 Milgrome, "The Art of William Merritt Chase,"
                            12–15; Wickenden, "William Merritt Chase," Dictionary of American Biography, vol. 11, part 2, p. 38; Kenyon Cox,
                            "William Merritt Chase, Painter," Harper's,
                            LXXVIII (March, 1889), 550; Maria Naylor, comp. and ed., National Academy of
                                Design Exhibition Record, 1861–1900 (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1973), I, 157–58. Other still lifes from this period include
                            "Still Life with Fruit," Parrish Art Museum (Southampton, 
                                New York
                            ); "Still Life with Watermelon," private collection,
                            Birmingham Museum of Art (Birmingham, 
                                Alabama
                            ); and "Still Life," Phoenix Art Museum (Phoenix, 
                                Arizona
                            ). The latter is of red and yellow apples and is highly detailed.
                  
                     37 Ronald G. Pisano, William Merritt Chase (
                                New York
                            , 1979), 12; McSpadden, Famous Painters of America, 331; the
                            quotation from William Merritt Chase is from "Talk on Art," The Art Interchange, XXXIX (December, 1897), 127.
                  
                     38
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 14, 1899, December 5, 1916.
               
                     a studio in the Insurance Exchange Building. Unable to afford a
                    studio by himself, he moved to the YMCA Building where he shared the large rooms of James W.
                    Pattison, an artist only five years his senior. Chase found a small group of painters living in 
                        St. Louis
                    , several of whom had been educated abroad. Conrad Diehl, who had studied at the Royal
                    Academy in Munich and with Jean-Léon Gérôme in 
                        Paris
                    , taught art students in the city. Paul Harney taught at the School of Fine Arts at 
                        Washington
                     University after having studied at Munich for two years. A landscape painter of some
                    note, Pattison was in charge of the art department at 
                        Washington
                     University, and he introduced Chase to his fellow artists.39
            
            "Will" Chase, as he now styled himself, found 
                        St. Louis
                     a booming city on the banks of the Mississippi River. Steamboats lined wharves piled
                    high with cotton bales and general merchandise. The city's Union Depot witnessed vast
                    crowds of immigrants arriving with hopes of finding work in the breweries, shoe factories, and
                    railway car works, and thousands of farmers and tradesmen headed westward to the Rockies or 
                        California
                    . A cosmopolitan population thronged the streets at the center of 
                        St. Louis
                     to gain access to its thriving stores, banks, and theaters. Iron-front commercial
                    buildings lined the business district, bearing witness to the city's postwar prosperity.
                    Will hoped that the prominent families of the city would want to enhance their new homes with his
                    paintings of fruit and flowers.40
            
            At their studio at Fifth and Olive streets Will Chase and Pattison eked out a precarious living. Will
                    exhibited his large floral and fruit pieces at a local art store. While Chase would later denigrate
                    his work in 
                        St. Louis
                    , some of the paintings revealed his growing talent. His "Floral Still Life
                    with Hummingbird" is not unlike the work of Martin Johnson Heade, a popular realistic
                    painter of flowers and birds in the period. This highly detailed oil of red roses, tall grasses, and
                    white flowers in a triangular arrangement with a small grey-brown hummingbird near the top is a
                    typical Victorian still life but is done with considerable verve. These "hard and
                    minute" works kept his artistic career going for three long years. He received a few
                    portrait commissions, 
                  
                     39 Unidentified newspaper clipping, W.B. Steves Scrapbooks (Missouri
                            Historical Society, 
                        St. Louis, Missouri
                     ), XLVI, 165; "William
                            Merritt Chase: A Leader," manuscript in George 
                                Washington
                             Stevens Papers (Archives of American Art, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.), Reel D34, frames 664–65; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 5, 1916; J. Thomas Scharf, History of saint
                                Louis City and County ... (2 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1883), II, 1626–27.
                  
                     40 Work Projects Administration, 
                        
                                    Missouri
                                : A Guide to the "Show Me" State (
                                New York
                            , 1941), 301–305.
               
                    
                    
                  FLORAL STILL LIFE
                            WITH HUMMINGBIRD
                  
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Museum of Art, Gift of Carl B. Shafer.
                and the studio he shared with Pattison soon had many visitors who came to watch the
                    intense, dignified young painter from Indiana. Pattison recalled that Will carried himself so well
                    and with such dignity that he appeared much older than twenty-one. He seemed to be
                    "astonishingly clever and self-centered even at that early period."41
            
            
               
                  41 Virginia Gerson to Ala Story, undated, Ala Story Papers (Archives of
                        American Art); Janson, "The Hoosier School," passim;
                        painting, "Floral Still Life with Hummingbird (
                            Indianapolis
                         Museum of Art, dated August 30, 1870, and signed
            
            
            One of the visitors to the studio was John Mulvaney, a local artist who had only recently returned
                    from Munich. The stories Mulvaney spun about the Royal Academy, the Munich museums, and student life
                    in Bavaria fired Will's imagination and dreams. Mulvaney's experiences and his
                    conversations with Pattison about French art made Chase's own work seem even more dreary.
                    Pattison had studied in 
                        Boston
                     and revealed to Chase the impact that William Morris Hunt had made on art there as a
                    result of Hunt's training in 
                        France
                    . Mulvaney had studied with Alexander Von Wagner and Karl Von Piloty in Munich, but he
                    had also traveled to 
                        Paris
                    , Berlin, 
                        Vienna
                    , and Amsterdam and had actually seen the old masters that Chase had observed only in
                    books and magazines. Munich offered a far less academic form of instruction, according to Mulvaney,
                    and students had more latitude stylistically. Certainly Will must have been impressed by
                    Mulvaney's sketches with their direct and vigorous brushwork. Will's enthusiasm
                    for Europe in general and for Munich in particular knew no limits except his pocketbook.42
            
            William lived at 414 Olive Street in the heart of the commercial district in 
                        St. Louis
                    , and a large metal sign on the YMCA Building proclaimed the location of his studio. His
                    earnings remained meager, and a photograph taken during this time shows a dark, brooding, heavily
                    lined face with a large drooping mustache. The fur hat and coat that Will is wearing in the picture
                    heightens the sense of foreboding shown on his face. Part of his unhappiness may have been the
                    strained relationship with his father. David Chase still did not approve of his eldest
                    son's vocation, and his own financial plight may have exacerbated the feeling that Will
                    should seek a more lucrative profession. The Chases had three more mouths to feed after the arrival
                    of Charles, Carrie, and Hattie. Will's brother George recalled that Sarah Chase sympathized
                    with the young artist but that their father did not. Will felt that his father considered him
                    "the black sheep of his family," though "I had my good mother always as a
                    support 
                  "Will Chase"); Peter 
                                Mitchell
                            , Great Flower Painters: Four Centuries of Floral Art
                            (Woodstock, N.Y., 1973), 87; 
                                New York
                            
                            Evening Post, April 27, 1907; James William Pattison, "William
                            Merritt Chase, N.A.," House Beautiful, XXV (February, 1909), 50;
                            quotation is from James William Pattison, The World's Painters since
                                Leonardo (
                                New York
                            , 1906), 240.
                  
                     42
                            
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Globe-Democrat, May 3, 1908; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, December 5, 1916; W.A. Cooper, "Artists in Their
                            Studios," Godey's Magazine, CXXX (January, 1895),
                            291–92; Cox, "William M. Chase, Painter," 550.
               
                    
                    
                  PHOTOGRAPH OF WILLIAM MERRITT CHASE TAKEN IN ST.
                                LOUIS ABOUT 1872
                  Reproduced from Katherine Metcalf Roof, The Life and Art of William
                                Merritt Chase (
                                New York
                            , 1917, reissue, 
                                New York
                            , 1975), opposite 24.
               
                     in the way of encouragement—always ready to frame the
                    little-things I did and hang them up.... "43 Sarah Chase came to
                    Will's studio to visit, and Pattison recalled her as a sweet-faced, gentle lady very much
                    concerned with her son's career. Will may have tried to please his father by clerking
                    briefly at the mercantile store of Dodd, 
                        Brown
                     & Company, but he simply was not interested in a business career. Perhaps David
                    Chase's concern about Will's fortunes were somewhat alleviated when in 1871 his
                    son won several awards at the Eleventh 
                        St. Louis
                     Fair. Among the 525 entries in the Fine Arts Department were several by Will Chase. He
                    won first prize of twenty dollars in the category "Head, Cabinet Size," but it was
                    his still life that attracted attention. The official report on the fair commented that
                    "Mr. Wm. M. Chase [showed] several tantalizingly real looking fruit pieces." One
                    of the latter took second in the fruit-painting category and a prize of ten dollars. Local
                    businessmen who belonged to the 
                        St. Louis
                     Agricultural and Mechanical Association donated the prizes, and a 
                        St. Louis
                     collector of American art, Samuel A. Coale, provided many of the art awards. William
                    recalled that his father's views did change and that while walking downtown with him they
                    met an acquaintance to whom Will was introduced as "my son the artist." Over time
                    his father came to take pride in his son's accomplishments.44
            
            Will's artistic talents also came to the attention of some 
                        St. Louis
                     businessmen and art patrons. Several stories, some of which must be apocryphal, purport
                    to explain how Chase attracted their notice. One story has a banker reporting to Pattison on
                    Chase's arrival in 
                        St. Louis
                    : "There is a young man here who paints so well that I dare not tell him how
                    good he is." Such a comment seems a strong sentiment about a twenty-one-year-old with only
                    two sessions of the National Academy of Design behind him. George Chase remembered that
                    Chase's first studio was in a building that housed the office of Captain W. R. Hodges, an
                    art connoisseur, 
                  
                     43
                            Gould & Aldrich's Annual Directory of the City of 
                                    St. Louis
                                
                      (
                                St. Louis
                            , 1872), 160; Roof, Life and Art of William Merritt Chase,
                            opposite 24; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, March 25, 1917; "Address of Mr. William M. Chase before The 
                                Buffalo
                             Fine Arts Academy, January 28th, 1890," The Studio,
                            new series, V (March 1, 1890), 121–22; Pisano, A Leading Spirit in
                                American Art, 25.
                  
                     44 Lars Gaston de Lagerberg, "James Gaston 
                                Brown
                            ," Bulletin of the Missouri Historical Society, VII
                            (April, 1951), 308; Seventh Annual Report of the [
                                    Missouri
                                ] State Board of Agriculture (Jefferson City, 1871), 75–77;
                            Roof, Life and Art of William Merritt Chase, 24–25; Elsie May
                            Smith, "A Girl That Everybody Likes: A Study of ‘Alice,’ with
                            a Glance at William M. Chase and His Work," School-Arts Magazine,
                            XII (February, 1913), 372; Pattison, "William Merritt Chase," 50.
               
                    
                    
                  STILL LIFE WITH FRUIT,
                            1871
                  William Merritt Chase, oil on canvas, The Parrish Art Museum, Southampton, N.Y.,
                            Littlejohn Collection
                and that Hodges brought the young artist to the attention of Samuel M. Dodd, a wealthy
                    merchant. There has also been the suggestion that Will worked briefly for Dodd's dry goods
                    store, and he did sometimes trade his paintings to merchants in exchange for clothes and other
                    necessities. Too, Samuel A. Coale had given the prizes that Chase won at the fair. Whatever the
                    explanation, Hodges, Coale, Dodd, and Charles Parsons, the president 
                    
                  AFTER THE SHOWER
                  
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Museum of Art, John Herron Fund.
               
                    
                    
                  PORTRAIT OF MY FATHER (DAVID HESTER CHASE) C. 1895
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Museum of Art, Gift of Mrs. Carrie Chase Roberts. Reproduced from "Two
                            Portraits by Chase," The Bulletin of the Art Association of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                . Indiana. John Herron Art Institute, XXXVII (April, 1950). 15
                of a local bank and the Union Depot Company, and several others decided to aid the young
                        artist.45
            
            Following his meeting with Mulvaney and their discussions about the Royal Academy at Munich,
                    Will's desire to study in Europe was virtually unbounded. His business acquaintances
                    discussed the youth's desire and approached him with a proposition. Hodges asked,if he
                    wished to go to Europe. "My God," he replied, "I'd rather go to
                    Europe than go to Heaven!" Hodges then proposed that Chase attend an academy in Europe for
                    two years supported 
                  
                     45 Quotation is from Pattison, "William Merritt
                            Chase," 50, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, March 25 1917; Walter B, Steven, St Louis, The Fourth
                                City, 1764–1909 (3 vols, St Louis, 1909), I, 677, 451, 318
               
                     by his business friends. They would each provide three hundred
                    dollars for a total of $2,100, a very handsome sum. In return, Will would send each of
                    them a picture to repay the money that he had been advanced. He also agreed to help them acquire
                    European paintings for their collections.46 Will prepared to depart for Europe
                    in 1872 filled with an excitement that he had never known before and with a longing to learn that he
                    had felt for almost a decade.
            Never again would Chase live in the Middle West, and only occasionally would he visit Indiana and 
                        Missouri
                    . Neither his European training nor his life in 
                        New York
                    , however, caused him to abandon his heritage. While James T. Flexner has suggested that
                    Chase and other midwestern artists sought to live down what they considered American crudities,
                    Chase's life and art reflected many familial and regional values.47
                    Clearly Chase carried with him throughout his career a sense of the importance of natural settings,
                    and his love of the out-of-doors remained a central factor in his life and his work. He became
                    famous for his paintings of Central Park in 
                        New York City
                     and Prospect Park in 
                        Brooklyn
                     as well as his many landscapes of Shinnecock, Long Island. The Shinnecock paintings
                    reflect the glory of the wild flowers, shrubs, and trees of what was then a tranquil rural area of
                    the northeast. Chase also revelled in the company of family and friends, a trait developed early in
                    his life, and before and after his marriage to Alice Gerson she would be his most faithful model.
                    Their eight surviving children proved to be the delight of Chase's life and the subjects of
                    numerous portraits and genre scenes. Although Chase would abandon "flower
                    painting," he loved still life, especially works depicting fish and fruit in settings which
                    emphasized common kitchen wares of brass, glass, and pottery, again perhaps a reflection of his
                    origin.
            Even as Hays and Cox had provided training, friendship, and encouragement for a struggling youth,
                    Chase became a "father" of American art. He had hundreds of students in 
                        New York City
                    , 
                        Brooklyn
                    , and 
                        Philadelphia
                    , many of whom became leading artists in the twentieth century. While his "art
                    children," as he called them, generally rejected his approach to art—though not
                    his commitment to technique—they respected him and praised his warm 
                  
                     46
                            
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Post-Dispatch, February 4, 1917; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, January 14, 1899; Roof, Life and Art of William Merritt
                                Chase, 25–26; Thomas B. Brumbaugh, "William Merritt Chase
                            Reports to 
                                St. Louis
                             from Munich," Bulletin of the Missouri Historical
                            Society, XV (January, 1959), 118–24; Cox, "William Merritt Chase,
                            Painter," 550.
                  
                     47 James Thomas Flexner, The Pocket History of American
                                Painting (
                                New York
                            , 1957), 98.
               
                    
                    
                  PORTRAIT OF MY MOTHER
                                (SARAH SWAIM CHASE), 1892
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Museum of Art, Gift of Mrs Carrie Chase Roberts.
                hospitality and encouragement and his dedication to professionalism.48
            
            Chase's strong sense of patriotism, particularly as it related to art, perhaps reflected
                    most strongly the artist's continuing belief in his early values. Throughout his later
                    career Chase argued for a distinctly "American" art and for artistic independence
                    from Europe. Although he traveled abroad frequently, Chase urged 
                  
                     48 Ronald G. Pisano, "The Teaching Career of William Merritt
                            Chase," American Artist, XL (March, 1976), 26–33,
                            63–66.
               
                     students to attend schools in the 
                        United States
                     and to paint "American" subjects. While some artists in the
                    progressive era espoused reformist political causes as well as "modern" art, Chase
                    remained steadfast in his commitments as a member of the national artistic establishment. Unlike
                    John Singer Sargent and James Abbott McNeill Whistler, he would not become an artist-in-exile. Years
                    later when he recalled his decision to return to the 
                        United States
                     in 1878 after six years abroad, Chase declared: "I was young; American art was
                    young; I had faith in it."49
            
            Like Winslow Homer, whose father had been a hardware dealer; Albert Ryder, whose father sold coal;
                    and Thomas Eakins, whose father was a 
                        Quaker
                     writing master, Chase created reality from his own experiences.50
                    Unlike fellow Hoosier James Whit-comb Riley, who had also been born in 1849 and who would spend a
                    lifetime writing about Indiana, Chase abandoned the Midwest as a home, but he did not leave behind
                    the values and the experiences that he acquired there. The subjects of his paintings, as well as his
                    personality, reflect his life along 
                        Nineveh
                     Creek in 
                        Johnson County
                    , on Delaware Avenue in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and on Olive Street in 
                        St. Louis
                    .
            
               
                  49
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Evening Post, quoted in "Chase's Americanism," The Literary Digest, LIII (November 11, 1916), 1250.
               
                  50 Virgil Barker, American Painting: History and
                            Interpretation (
                            New York
                        , 1950), 667.
            
            
            
               DOROTHY [CHASE], 1902
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Museum of Art, John Herron Fund.
            
         
         
         
            William R. Muncie (1849–1939): His Childhood Memories
            
                    Contributed by John McClaughry
                    ∗
                    Edited by Lorna Lutes Sylvester
                
            Born in 1849 as the pioneer period in southern Indiana drew to a close, William Rasnic 
                        Muncie
                     was in many respects the prototypical Hoosier at the midpoint of the nineteenth
                    century. "I, W. R. Muncie," he wrote in a memoir read at his fiftieth wedding
                    anniversary in 1925, "was born in a log cabin, about 4 miles southeast of 
                        Brazil
                    , the county seat of 
                        Clay county
                    , in the western part of Ind., July 1, 1849.I am of Southern parentage, my father, Peter 
                        Muncie
                    , having been born in 
                        Knox County
                    , Ky., and my mother in 
                        North Carolina
                    . ... I am the 2nd child and the oldest of eight sons."1
                    Many characteristics of pioneer society were prevalent in southern Indiana during 
                        Muncie
                    's childhood and adolescent years. The South, particularly the Upland South,
                    was the paramount provider of immigrants to the state during the early decades of the nineteenth
                    century, and in 1850 possibly as many as 400,000 inhabitants of a total population of almost one
                    million were, like 
                        Muncie
                    , at least first generation southerners.2 Log cabins 
                  
                     ∗ John McClaughry, a great-grandson of William R. Muncie,
                            was raised in 
                        Paris, Illinois
                     , and now resides in 
                        Concord, Vermont
                     .
                  
                     1 William R. Muncie, Memoirs of W. R. Muncie and
                            Family (n.p., [1925]), 1. This memoir was written by 
                                Muncie
                             to be read on the occasion of his fiftieth wedding anniversary on February 7,
                            1925. A photocopy of the small booklet was loaned to the Indiana Magmine of
                                History by John McClaughry to be used for reference in the editing of his
                            great-grandfather's childhood reminiscences, most of which are reproduced below. 
                                Muncie
                             had two sisters in addition to the seven brothers mentioned here. 
                                Bowling Green
                             was the county seat of 
                                Clay County
                             when 
                                Muncie
                             was born and remained so until 1871 when county commissioners granted a
                            petition moving the seat of government to 
                                Brazil
                            . Records were not transferred to 
                                Brazil
                             until 1877 when a building was completed to house them. George Pence and Nellie
                            C. Armstrong, Indiana Boundaries: Territory, State, and County (Indiana
                                Historical Collections, Vol. XIX; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1933), 288.
                  
                     2 John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From
                                Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), I, 178.
               
                    
                    
                  THE REVEREND WILLIAM
                            R. MUNCIE
                  
                  Courtesy Mrs. Martha C. Tapy.
               
                     and large families were accepted facts of life. Transportation
                    consisted of "bridle and foot-paths" and a few roads that "wound and
                    twisted around hills and through forests to meet the needs of each back woods settler and connect
                    him with the National Road...."3 Farming, often subsistence farming in
                    the early decades, was the chief occupation in Indiana until early in the twentieth century, and 
                        Muncie
                     recalls that the endless, back-breaking "clearing of the land for cultivation,
                    a few acres each year," continued as long as he remained with his father.
            As 
                        Muncie
                     himself recognized, the 1850s, 1860s, and 1870s were also years of transition for the
                    Hoosier state. The "back woods community," he wrote, "began to assume the
                    appearance of a Christian neighborhood."4 One of the boy's
                    earliest memories was of the "Ground-hog" thresher that came to his
                    father's farm to separate the wheat from the straw. Although the wheat still had to be
                    separated from the chaff by hand with the fanning mill, "it was a great improvement over
                    the old tramping process." In 1856 the stagecoach passed the Muncies' house daily,
                    except Sunday, on its route from 
                        Greencastle
                     in 
                        Putnam County
                     to 
                        Bowling Green
                    , county seat of 
                        Clay County
                    ; four years earlier the 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad had run its first train from the state capital to the 
                        Vigo County
                     town, passing through 
                        Brazil
                     in 
                        Clay County
                     on its way.5 The improved methods of transportation, in particular,
                    contributed to the eventual end of the pioneer society of 
                        Muncie
                    's youth. In the second half of the nineteenth century changes were coming to
                    rural southern Indiana, albeit slowly.
            Many of 
                        Muncie
                    's childhood memories center on his early experiences in the district schools
                    of 
                        Clay County
                    . Although common schools that 
                        Muncie
                     attended were products of the educational system mandated by the Constitution of 1851,
                    they were also reminiscent of the pioneer period in which most had originated. 
                  
                     3
                            
                                Muncie
                            , Memoirs, 1, 2. The main east-west thoroughfare through
                            Indiana until the advent of the modern interstates, the National Road crossed the state via
                                    
                        Richmond, Indianapolis
                     , and 
                                Terre Haute
                            . Although always in various stages of disrepair, it was perhaps the best road
                            in the state in the midnineteenth century and provided Hoosiers with an outlet to the East.
                            U.S. 40 now follows approximately the route originally established for the National Road.
                            Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, I, 289–90.
                  
                     4
                            
                                Muncie
                            , Memoirs, 2.
                  
                     5 The first of the east-west rail lines in Indiana, the 
                                Terre Haute
                             and 
                                Richmond
                            , later the 
                                Terre Haute
                             and 
                                Indianapolis
                             and still later the 
                        St. Louis,
                                    Terre Haute
                      and 
                                Indianapolis
                            , was completed in 1852 at a cost of slightly more than one million dollars; a
                            large part of the cost was subscribed by farmers in 
                                Putnam
                             and Vigo counties and worked out on the building of the road. The railroad
                            hauled an immense amount of coal from the 
                                Brazil
                             fields, and according to one historian, "Of all early Indiana
                            railroads this was the best." Logan Esarey, A History of
                            Indiana... (3rd ed., 2 vols.; 
                                Bloomington
                            , 19341, 719–20.
               
                     Two years after 
                        Muncie
                    's birth, Indiana's second constitution had called for "a
                    general and uniform system of Common Schools, wherein tuition shall be without charge, and equally
                    open to all."6 During the 1850s and 1860s, when 
                        Muncie
                     was learning to read and write, Hoosiers made substantial progress toward establishing
                    such a system: among other improvements legislators organized a common school fund in accordance
                    with the provisions of the constitution, enacted the first statewide tax on behalf of common schools
                    or education on any level, provided a formula for the distribution of school revenue, and
                    established the office and duties of a state superintendent of public instruction. The new school
                    system was revolutionary, particularly for Indiana, and opponents relentlessly fought its
                    implementation. Progress often sputtered and sometimes almost ceased.7 It is
                    small wonder, then, that the primitive school conditions of 
                        Muncie
                    's youth resemble those of the 1830s and 1840s. Ralph Hartsook, Edward
                    Eggleston's Hoosier schoolmaster, would have felt at home in the poorly constructed log
                    buildings that 
                        Muncie
                     attended; indeed, the crude equipment; short, haphazard terms; equally haphazard
                    attendance; and inadequately trained, poorly paid, and insufficiently motivated teachers in 
                        Clay County
                     could well have served as models for Eggleston's "Flat Crick
                        Districk."8 In the 1870s and 1880s, when 
                        Muncie
                     himself was a teacher, public elementary education waxed in Indiana: the financial base
                    for public schools was enlarged, principally through increased tax revenues; school terms increased
                    from 65 days in 1860 to 136 in 1880; teachers received better training; more and better schools were
                    built; and the number of graded schools increased.9
                    
                        Muncie
                     taught for seventeen years before he entered full-time ministry; he recognized the
                    changes that were occurring and recorded in his memoirs: "the old log school house, with
                    its crude equipment and its poorly qualified teacher passed, and better built, more convenient and
                    better equipped school houses took their places; and with the 
                  
                     6 Charles Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiaqa:
                                A Source Book of Constitutional Documents with Historical Introduction and Critical
                                Notes (3 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, Vols. I, II,
                            XVII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916, 19301, I, 346.
                  
                     7 For more complete discussions of the development of public schools
                            in Indiana see Richard G. Boone, A History of Education in Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1892; reprint, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1941); Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, I, 255–75,
                            11, 105–28. 327–50.
                  
                     8 Edward Eggleston, The Hoosier School-Master
                            (orig., 1871; 
                                Bloomington
                            , 1984).
                  
                     9 Barnhart aiid Carmony, Indiana, II,
                            327–50; 
                                Boone
                            , History of Education in Indiana. 315.
               
                     coming of the Normal teachers training school, in 1872, the
                    schools rapidly improved...."10
            
            
               
                        Muncie
                     observed improvements in many aspects of Hoosier society during his ninety years.
                    Indeed, his life spanned decades of transition in Indiana's history, transition from a
                    rural, agricultural economy with pioneer roots to an emerging urban, industrial state. 
                        Muncie
                     retired in 1924 at the age of seventy-five after serving for approximately forty-two
                    years as an itinerant minister for the United Brethren church; he died in 1939 on the eve of World
                    War II. In 1875 
                        Muncie
                     married Sarah Cornelia Varley, who predeceased him in 1927. Much of their life together
                    was spent traveling from one "charge" to another in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . At times they were successful, receiving many into church fellowship and dedicating
                    and building new churches; at others, where "willing co-operation" was lacking,
                    "there was little accomplished." Financial success was equally uncertain;
                    sometimes 
                        Muncie
                     came out "$50 ahead to begin the next year's work
                    with"; sometimes he was $150 behind. Always he worked at other jobs to pay his
                    debts and meet his family's needs.11
            
            All nine of the 
                        Muncie
                     children who survived beyond infancy received high school educations, a significant
                    achievement in the years of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, and their father was
                    justifiably proud. 
                        Muncie
                    's own educational accomplishments were exemplary. In addition to the common
                    schools that he recalls in his remembrances, he attended several summer terms at county
                    teacher-training institutes, three terms at Union Christian College at Merom, Indiana, and one term
                    at Asbury (now DePauw University) at 
                        Greencastle
                    . He began his teaching career in one of the same log structures that he had first
                    entered as a pupil and proceeded from this "rural mixed school" to the
                    principalship of a town graded school.12 Recalling the lack of system 
                  
                     10
                            
                                Muncie
                            , Memoirs, 3. 
                                Muncie
                             is almost assuredly referring to Indiana State Normal School, now Indiana State
                            University, which opened in 1870 at 
                                Terre Haute
                            . 
                                Boone
                            , History of Education in Indiana, 388–91.
                            According to one historian, this school "probably educated more teachers and did
                            more to raise professional standards in Indiana during the remaining decades of the century
                            than did any other institution in the state." Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II, 333.
                  
                     11
                     
                                Muncie
                            , Memoirs, 5, 7–11.
                  
                     12
                     Ibid., 3–4, 8–9, 10. Union
                            Christian College at Merom in 
                                Sullivan County
                             opened in 1860 under the auspices of the Christian church. Its organization
                            included an elementary and preparatory school; classical and scientific collegiate courses;
                            a normal, or teachers' training, school; a three-year theological course; and a
                            graduate course in instrumental and vocal music. Asbury University at 
                                Greencastle
                             in 
                                Putnam County
                             was chartered by the Indiana General Assembly in 1837 at the request of the
                            Indiana Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church. In 1884 the school's name was
                            changed to DePauw after one of its principal benefactors. 
                                Boone
                            , History of Education in Indiana, 422–23,
                            414–16.
               
                     or order or qualified teachers in many of the schools of his
                    youth, 
                        Muncie
                     wrote: "the pupils made advancement according as they applied themselves. So I
                    think in intellectual growth it is more in the pupil than in the system or the teacher."
                    For himself at least his statement was crrect.13
            
            
               
                  13 In a letter to the editor of the Indiana Magazine of
                            History, Mrs. Martha C. Tapy, one of 
                            Muncie
                        's granddaughters, wrote of her grandfather: "I never met anyone
                        like him. He was so versatile yet so humble. How he loved to preach. He lived to be 90 yrs. of
                        age, and never had to wear a pair of glasses." She recalls that, after the death of his
                        wife in 1927, 
                            Muncie
                         taught himself to play a mailorder violin "quite well," playing
                        old square dance tunes and church songs to help relieve his loneliness. At about eighty years of
                        age, chafing at restrictions placed upon him because of his health, he climbed a telephone pole
                        to affix a whirligig to the top. At approximately the same time 
                            Muncie
                         contracted to paint all the mailboxes in Olney, 
                            Illinois
                        , where he was living with his daughter, and completed the task by himself. Mrs.
                        Martha C. Tapy to James H. Madison, December 2, 1983.
            
            
            
                    Childhood Memories
                    1
                
            [The first few paragraphs of William R. Muncie's "Childhood Memories" have
                    not been reproduced in the transcription below. In the omitted section 
                        Muncie
                     recalls several deaths in his community, describes his earliest
                    recollection—the search for his lost five-year-old sister who had strayed from the
                    house—and remembers his humiliation at having to wear his sister's dress while
                    his first—and only—pair of pants was laundered.]
            Following that [the death of a relative, Peter Helton], I remember of riding a horse until I was
                    quite wearied, in tramping out a batch of wheat, on a threshing floor, and the next day having to
                    rake the wheat from the fanning mill, while father and a neighbor separated the wheat from the chaff
                    on the fanning mill.2
            
            The next event of importance, which I remember, was the coming of the threshing machine. It was
                    called the Ground-hog, was run by six horse power—the driver standing on the platform on
                    the machine and driving the horses around to furnish the power. The thresher had a cylinder and a
                    concave and a short straw carrier, and only separated the wheat from the straw, leaving the
                    separation of the wheat from the chaff to be done by hand with a fanning-mill.3
                    But it was a great improvement over the old tramping process.
            The next event following that in my memory was the building of the old Union Chapel, near where the
                    new Union brick church 
                  
                     1 Mrs. Martha C. Tapy, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana, a granddaughter of William R. Muncie, holds what is assumed to be the
                            original manuscript that describes her grandfather's childhood memories. Typed
                            faintly on yellowed paper by 
                                Muncie
                             himself when he was eighty-eight years old, the document is extremely faded and
                            difficult to read. The transcription below was prepared from a photocopy of the original.
                            Because of 
                                Muncie
                            's age and his inexperience with a typewriter, obvious typographical
                            errors have been corrected; the author's spelling, punctuation, capitalization, and
                            phrasing, however, have been maintained as nearly as possible. When, as a result of inexpert
                            typing or poor quality of ribbon or machine, it was impossible to ascertain whether 
                                Muncie
                             meant to use a capital or lower case letter, arbitrary decisions have been
                            made. Handwritten emendations and corrections appear throughout the manuscript. Because it
                            is not known whether 
                                Muncie
                             himself or someone else inserted the changes, they have been omitted.
                            Occasionally words have been inserted in brackets to clarify meaning.
                  
                     2 Before the widespread use of machines for harvesting, farmers often
                            separated the wheat heads from the straw by leading or riding farm animals back and forth
                            across wheat stalks that had been spread on the barn floor or on hard ground. The chaff was
                            then separated from the kernels by a device called a blower or fanning mill.
                  
                     3 One of the earliest threshing machines was the ground-hog thresher,
                            so called because of its shape and the noise that it made.
               
                     now stands.4 It was built by the whole
                    neighborhood uniting, but deed to the U[nited] B[rethren] church to be used by other churches when
                    not occupied by them. Some 20 years after this it was rebuilt and the U.B. church given sole
                    control. Some 40 years after this, the present fine brick church was erected, and deed to the U.B.
                    Church. I suppose the Union Cemetery adjoining the church is the most populous in the County. It is
                    nearly 100 years old. There is where the remains of many of my relatives and acquaintances
                    repose—among them father, mother, four brothers and one sister.
            Following this, I have a vivid remembrance of going to Grandfather Muncies for the night, to be with
                    uncle Uriah Hull and family on their way to 
                        Iowa
                    . They had two children, a boy named Willie, and the girl's name I have
                    forgotten. They remained in Iowa for many years, and we kept correspondence with them, but after
                    that, they moved to 
                        Nebraska
                    , and we fell out of correspondence with them, so have no knowledge of them after their
                    settlement in Neb.5
            
            The next event, following this is one of importance to every child and one ever
                    remembered—his first day at school. The school-house was known as the Woods school-house,
                    named for a family of that name near-by. It was located one mile north of the Center school-house in 
                        Jackson
                     t.p. [township] Clay Co. It was a log house, with seats without backs, a writing shelf
                    on two sides of the house, with a large stove in the center of the house.
            Sylvester Milligan, a young man was the teacher, and I think a lazier one never endeavored to conduct
                    a school. Almost every afternoon, he would put the school in the hands of some of the older pupils,
                    lay himself upon one of the writing shelves and take a nap. Into his august present I was ushered,
                    and asked the initial questions—What is your name how old are you. I had been properly
                    coached, and passed the test. After this an Elementary Spelling book was placed in my hands, was
                    shown the alphabet and told 
                  
                     4 According to an early 
                                Clay County
                             history, the Union Church was built in 1855 and, like many other early meeting
                            houses, was also used as a schoolhouse. Charles Blanchard, ed., Counties of
                                Clay and Owen, Indiana: Historical and Biographical (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 295, 296–97.
                  
                     5 Emigrants left Indiana for other territories and states throughout
                            the nineteenth century. By the 1850s approximately 92,000 natives of Indiana were living in
                            other states, and the number soared to over 215,000 in 1860. During the 1850s and 1860s Iowa
                            was second only to Illinois as the most popular settling place for former Hoosiers. John D.
                            Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial
                                Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), II, 300–304.
               
                    
                    
                  Map prepared by Cathryn L. Lombardi. Based in part on "Map of 
                                Clay County
                            " in Illustrated Historical Atlas of the State of
                            Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1876).
               
                     to study that for my lesson.6 I took the
                    book in my left hand, with my fingers underneath, and thumb in the angle, and began to stare at the
                    letters, until my hand became tired and my eyes weary from gazing at the letters, but got no
                    farther. I finally memorized the alphabet by the time I had worn the book thru, under my thumb. In
                    that school, the pupils recited separately—two lessons per day. The school was large in
                    number and in size too. There was little system or order, but the pupils made advancement according
                    as they applied themselves.
            So I think in intellectual growth it is more in the pupil than in the system or the teacher.
            So the school passed by, about three months of the year. I learned the alphabet and to spell in words
                    of two and three letters, and in addition learned the ways of school, which was a very important
                    thing to know. The second school was taught in the same school-house, by an elderly [man] named
                    Alfred Bowling. I remember well some incidents of that school. First, that the school was well
                    attended—many grown ups making a large part of the pupils, and some read in the New
                    testament for their reading lessons. Second, that the teacher concluded that the pupils would make
                    better advancement in their studies if they were permitted to study aloud, so the latter half of the
                    school-term was turned in to an open, or loud school—every one doing his lessons audibly.
                    And it was a loud school, sure enough, some doing their work in a loud sonorous voice while the more
                    timid ones could scarcely be heard. In fact in the babel of confusion, it was difficult to hear ones
                    own voice, unless it was keyed higher than the others. It was the third day, before I got up
                    sufficient courage to [do] my work aloud. But in time we became accustomed to the noise, and went on
                    with our work about as well as when silence prevailed. The noise varied; there [were] periods when
                    it sounded somewhat like the hum of bees in their usual daily toil; then there were periods when the
                    noise reminded one of the commotion in a beehive, when some enemy had stirred the hive into intense
                    activity. Such were the periods in which we studied our spelling lessons, which occurred twice each
                    day.
            
               
                  6
                        
                            Muncie
                         probably used Noah Webster's Elementary Spelling Book,
                        touted by the author and his publisher as "being an improvement" on
                        Webster's earlier blue-backed American Spelling Book. Noah Webster,
                            The Elementary Spelling Book... (rev. ed., 
                            New York
                        , 1857). Asked in 1880 to name his firm's best-selling book, publisher
                        William H. Appleton replied: "Webster's Speller; and it has the largest sale
                        of any book in the world except the Bible. We sell a million copies a year." Noah
                        Webster, American Spelling Book (
                            Middletown
                        , Conn., 1831; reprint, 
                            New York
                        , 1962), preface.
            
            
            The mind can become accustomed to all kinds of outward conditions, without interfering with its
                    normal activity, so the work went on, the pupils making advancement according to the application; as
                    in the school conducted in silence. It certainly cultivated the habit of concentration of the mind
                    amid confusion, which is quite an acquirement.
            The next Summer, father sold our little farm on Birch creek, and in the Fall of 1856, moved to a
                    farm, owned by a rich Scotchman, a merchant in Harmony, Ind. [in 
                        Clay County
                    ] whose name was Green McKinley. The farm was in Eelriver bottom, on the main traveled
                    road from 
                        Greencastle
                    , county seat of 
                        Putnam
                     Co. to 
                        Bowling Green
                    , county-seat of Clay Co, about a mile south of the old Carpenters Mill. It was much
                    traveled road and a stage route, and the stage coach passed our house every day, except Sun. In
                    those days, Sun. was kept as a sacred day of rest. One of our neighbors concluded he would violate
                    the custom of Sabbath observance, and make hay on that day, while his neighbors rested, and be that
                    much ahead of them with his work. Just after midnight Mon. a band of young men went to his field and
                    tore down his hay shocks, scattering the hay so that the work of Sabbath had to all be done over,
                    and left a bundle of hickory switches, and a letter informing him if this was repeated, he would be
                    taken out and the switches used upon him. That stopped Sabbath working for a time in the
                    neighborhood. There was in the country a self appointed secret body of men, called themselves the
                    Regulators, whose business was to see that the laws were obeyed, especially those relating to moral
                    conduct, without due process of iaw.7
            
            The Summer of 1857 was unusually cold and dry, there being frost in every month but July, so that the
                    crop was rather light. Snow fell in Sep, and winter set in early.
            
               
                  7 In 1852 the Indiana General Assembly enacted a law authorizing the
                        formation of companies of private individuals who were given the rights of constables in
                        arresting criminals and recovering stolen property. A result of lawmakers' reluctance
                        to appropriate sufficient funds to pay sheriffs and of many citizens' preference to
                        fend for themselves without hindrance from the government, this Horse Thief Associations Law led
                        to the organization of a number of related, albeit unauthorized, groups. There were, for
                        example, in many parts of the state secret societies which took it upon themselves to regulate
                        the morals of the community. These Regulators, as did the Horse Thief Associations, arrested and
                        punished individuals without bringing them to trial in the established courts of justice. They
                        justified their existence as necessary in order to shield young people from criminal and immoral
                        influences. In many communities the Regulators were extremely powerful, and associations of this
                        sort existed for many years. Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                            1850–1880 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1965), 6–8; Indiana, Revised Statutes (1852), I,
                        318–20.
            
            
            Our home was near the school-house, so my older sister and I attended the school about every day. The
                    teacher was a young Methodist preacher and was pretty strict in discipline, and a fairly good
                    teacher. We had a full school, among them several grown men and women, and some rather unruly boys
                    in their teens. I began to study reading in this school, having my McGuffey's first
                        reader.8 Before the school closed, I had it about committed to memory. It
                    was then the custom for the teacher to treat his pupils about the holidays, and the teacher offered
                    to treat on cakes, candy and apples, but there being some users of whiskey in the patrons of the
                    school, [they] insisted the school have included in the treats whiskey, mixed with water, for all
                    who wished it, this the teacher positively refused to do, so there was a great commotion brought up
                    in the school and the neighborhood, the two factions in the school, the Methodists, opposed to the
                    use of whiskey as a beverage, and the Regular Baptist in favor of its everyday use. On the
                    teacher's refusal to furnish any whiskey for his pupils, some of the patrons who were
                    urging it upon the teacher came to the school house while the teacher was absent at dinner, and
                    furnished all who would partake of it a free treat of whiskey mixed with sweetened water.
                    Subsequently the teacher furnished the school a fine treat of apples, cake and candy. But the
                    commotion over the whiskey episode almost ruined the remaining part of the school-term, the children
                    of the whiskeyites, causing disorder the rest of the term, making it difficult for the teacher to
                    maintain order and discipline among the pupils.9
            
            
               
                  8 In the mid-1830s William Holmes McGuffey agreed to edit a series of
                        eclectic readers for Truman and Smith, a small 
                            Cincinnati
                         publishing house. Included in the series were a primer, a spelling book, and four
                        readers. The McGuffey Eclectic Readers soon attained great popularity in the
                        Midwest, and in 1853 the Indiana State Board of Education recommended the adoption of the Indiana Readers, compiled from the McGuffey series, as a standard text for the
                        state. McGuffey's eclectic readers became almost synonymous with reading instruction in
                        the Midwest and, during the early years at least, were among the very few books not issued from
                        the East. Richard G. Boone, A History of Education in Indiana (
                            New York
                        , 1892; reprint, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1941), 266–67, 310; Harvey C. Minnich, William Holmes
                            McGuffey and His Readers (
                            New York
                        , 1936), 30–33.
               
                  9 Temperance was long a bone of contention among certain Baptist churches
                        in Indiana and elsewhere. In 1837 the General Association of Regular Baptists condemned the use
                        of liquor and, indeed, demanded total abstinence. Although not all churches or associations
                        accepted this view, it seems somewhat unusual to find the Regular Baptists promoting the
                        distribution of whiskey at school, even as a treat at Christmas. I. George Blake, Finding a Way through the Wilderness: The Indiana Baptist Convention,
                        1833–1983 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1983), 58–59. During the pioneer period in Indiana one deterrent to the
                        development of public, as opposed to private, education had been Hoosiers' fervent
                        devotion to sectarianism. Many religious denominations felt that state schools would either
                        weaken their faith or entirely supplant it with another. Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, I, 260–61. As 
                            Muncie
                        's remembrances indicate, school problems connected with religious
                        rivalries within communities continued at least into the last half of the nineteenth
                    century.
            
            
            We lived near a cemetery, and learned to pass thru it to the next neighbors' without fright
                    or fear. There we saw the first funeral procession and burial—an old man almost 100 years
                    old.
            Within the year father had bought 80 acres with an old log house and three acres of cleared land upon
                    it. There was also an old deadning of about 10 acres, overgrown with hazlebrush, which we cleared
                    for cultivation within the next two years.10 This was father's old farm
                    where four of the children were born, and mother and three children passed to the great beyond, and
                    where I spent rest of my boy-hood and the first years of my young manhood. It is located two and one
                    half miles east of Asherville, in 
                        Jackson
                     t.p. about a mile from the 
                        Putnam
                     Co. line. The farm being mostly in timber, father had the problem of clearing the land,
                    for cultivation, and producing what the family needed for its support beside. We experienced some
                    pretty trying experiences, but lived thru it all and fifty years afterward father sold the farm for
                    nearly three times of what it had cost him.
            The first winter we had about three months school at the Pollom school-house, a mile and a half away.
                    Father blazed away diagonally thru the woods, which shortened the distance. In passing that woods,
                    we often encountered droves of wild turkeys and many squirrels. The school was taught by Christian
                    Hummel, of French descent, a good teacher but not very popular with the pupils, on acc't of
                    his strictness. My older sister and I attended tho the trips were rather trying at times when the
                    weather was cold and the snow deep. The conditions were to severe for the younger sister. In the old
                    log house on the farm, we lived for seven years, building a new hewed log house near by in my 17th
                    year.
            In the Spring of 1858, my younger sister, Frances Louisa, sickend of brain fever, and died on the
                    28th of March,11 being 7 years and nine days of age. She was nearest playmate, I
                    can yet remember how I missed her in my play, and how I wished at her 
                  
                     10 Clearing the land for cultivation was one of the first and possibly
                            the hardest and most continuous tasks of the early Indiana farmers. Usually the new ground
                            on a farm was in various stages of preparation for cultivation. Some plots might be
                            completely cleared of all timber, underbrush, and roots, thus ready for the plow; another
                            section might have undergrowth and small timber removed but have large trees still standing;
                            a third might remain heavily forested. One stage in the land-clearing process generally
                            involved girdling, or debarking, large trees and leaving them to die. Later the dead trees
                            were either burned as they stood or pulled down, the logs rolled into piles, and burned.
                            Such acreage was frequently referred to as a "deadening," or as 
                                Muncie
                             spelled and probably pronounced it, a "deadning." Barnhart
                            and Carmony, Indiana, I, 343–48.
                  
                     11
                            
                                Muncie
                             originally typed "28th" as the date of his sister's
                            death. An illegible correction, in black ink, was later inserted over the
                            "8." It was impossible to determine whether the corrected number was a
                            "7" or a "4."
               
                     death, I could die and go with her to Heaven. After her death, I
                    saw her in my dreams, in the heavens, beckoning me to come to her. Dear sister you have been a long
                    time absent from me, but I am expecting to be with you soon, where we shall never be separated.
            The next year we attended school at the same place, the school being taught by Elias Boyd, a
                    Methodist local preacher, a man about 30 years of age. He was a man of good nature, and a fairly
                    good teacher, and popular with patrons and pupils. The [school] continued for three months, in the
                    remaining nine months, we were engaged in working on the farm, raising about all we needed to live
                    on, including breadstuffs, hay, flax and wool for clothing. The flax and the wool had to be worked
                    by hand as there were no carding machines near enough to be reached by us in these days. The
                    clearing of the land for cultivation, a few acres each year continued as long as I stayed with my
                    father.
            The next winters school was at the same place taught again by Christian Hummel. In this school I had
                    advanced to the 3rd McGuffeys Reader and began the study of mental arithmetic, and writing.12 I became quite an oral speller, and won a prize in spelling.13 The school lasted about four months, and we had enough older pupils to make it interesting.
                    By this time the system of instruction had changed giving recitations in classes, which was quite an
                    improvement over the old way of individual recitations, and a great timesaver for the teacher.
                    School being closed early, we resumed work on the farm, and continued thruout the Summer. At this
                    time there was abundance of mast in the fall and winter and we were visited by thousands of wild
                    pigeons, in flocks 
                  
                     12 In an article describing the development of the Indiana city school
                            system, Harold Littell listed mental arithmetic as a subject taught in the 
                                Terre Haute city
                             schools in 1865. The course was later dropped, then revived, and was apparently
                            still in the curriculum in 1916 when Littell wrote his article. Harold Littell,
                            "Development of the City School System of Indiana—1885–1880
                            (Concluded)," Indiana Magazine of History, XII (December, 1916),
                            313. Reports of the state superintendent of public instruction list "Arithmetic.
                            Oral lessons ..." as part of the course of study for the second grade in the
                            Indiana public schools. 
                                Muncie
                             may have been referring to this subject when he writes of mental arithmetic.
                            See, for example, Indiana, Thirty-second Report of the Superintendent of Public
                                Instruction of the State of Indiana, Being the Twelfth Biennial Report... (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1884), 102.
                  
                     13
                            
                                Muncie
                            's frequent mention of spelling attests to the importance that early
                            schoolmasters in the Midwest attached to this subject. It was not unusual for pupils to
                            participate in two spelling matches each school day, and evening matches served as a form of
                            recreation for the community. Students often learned to read from the speller; indeed, one
                            teacher and writer referred to the spelling book as a valuable piece of property:
                            "for it was to most pupils the only text-book in spelling, reading, geography,
                            grammar, and moral philosophy." 
                                Boone
                            , History of Education in Indiana, 309–10.
               
                     sometimes covering the skies for several minutes on their way to
                    their roosting place near 
                        Henderson
                    , Ky.14 These visits continued as long as the mast continued to be
                    plentiful, but with the destruction of the forests the pigeons ceased in their visits. Also the wild
                    turkeys became more scarce and with other wild game finally disappeared.
            The next Winter's term was taught in part by Rev. Aaron Simonson, a local Methodist
                    preacher, who taught a partial [term] but on account of political disturbance in the school, failed
                    to finish the term. He was a good man and able instructor, but rather slow in his movements. The
                    civil war coming on divided the school into two factions as it did the patrons. We boys of the early
                    teens caught the enthusiasm and organized our company, armed with wooden guns and tin swords
                    continued to parade each noon recess. Political spats occurred, and finally terminated in a fist
                    fight between two young men, which ended the school for that year. The winter term being shortened,
                    a Miss Smith from Penn. a Presbyterian, and a sister of Mrs John Roadman, taught a subscription
                    Spring term, which I attended.15 She was a fine teacher, and the first to have
                    religious service at the opening of the school, each day. In my four winter's attendance of
                    that school, I became acquainted with the Wesley Chapel M.E. church, and began the attendance of
                    their S[unday] S[chool] and Preaching services. In this church I had my first definite religious
                    impressions, and in this church made my first move toward becoming a Christian. I came into
                    possession thru barter of a little booklet, called the Scripture Question Book, which gave me a
                    connected view of the scriptures, as a whole, and its purpose, and had more to do in the shaping of
                    my [life] than any other book, save the Bible.16
            
            
               
                  14 Approximately thirty years earlier a visitor to 
                            New Harmony
                         in 
                            Posey County
                         in southwestern Indiana witnessed similar numbers of pigeons: "During our
                        stay at [New] Harmony we witnessed some very astonishing flights of pigeons. Such were their
                        numbers, that they literally formed clouds, and floated through the air in a frequent succession
                        of these as far as the eye could reach, sometimes causing a sensible gust of wind, and a
                        considerable motion of the trees over which they flew. At that time of the year these birds
                        congregate in the woods of this part of America by millions." William Hebert,
                        "A Visit to the Colony of Harmony in Indiana [1825]" in Harlow Lindley, ed.,
                            Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers: A Collection of Reprints from Books of
                            Travel, Letters and Diaries Prior to 1830 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. III; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1916), 337.
               
                  15 The financing of schools by subscription was a standard practice during
                        the pioneer period, and as late as the 1880s subscription schools supplemented the short public
                        terms in rural areas and smaller cities and towns. Such schools were sometimes organized by
                        parents or local officials but more frequently by teachers themselves. 
                            Boone
                        , History of Education in Indiana, 298.
               
                  16
                        
                            Muncie
                         is probably referring to Harvey Newcomb, Scripture Questions on the
                            Gospels and Acts, for the Use of Schools or Private Instruction (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1837).
            
            
            In the following Summer, a new school-house, called the Roadman school house built within a half mile
                    of our home, and after that school privileges were always convenient for us. The first teacher in
                    the new school house was a fine young woman named Permelia Dean. She was the [first] woman to teach
                    in our district, and taught a fine school.17
            
            In the Spring of 1862, my brother Thomas Jefferson, named for my grand father Lucas, six years my
                    junior, contracted Spinal menenghitis, and died within five hours after first complaining. We were
                    out at work together until 11 a.m. when he complained of a pain in his neck, went to house, took
                    rapidly worse, and was so far gone when the doctor arrived about 3 p.m. nothing could be done for
                    him, to help overcome the disease, and he died about 4 p.m. shortly after the doctor departed. The
                    death was so sudden and unexpected, that he was missed by us all, and especially by me, for [after]
                    my sister's death, four years before, he had become my nearest companion. The day after his
                    death we returned from the funeral, and to help us in our sorrow, went to work in our clearing. It
                    was hard for us to adjust ourselves to the new order. For days afterward, I would find myself
                    calling to my brother, subconsciously expecting him to answer and come to me, and mother in setting
                    table for meals, would set a place for him for weeks after he had gone from us. Then when she would
                    realize the situation she would weep over her loss.
            In the Spring of 1861, I had a severe attack of typhoid fever, the only serious sickness that I have
                    ever had. I took my bed in April and June, when the wheat was in full head. It was a new world to
                    me. Every thing dressed in its spring garments of life and beauty, the world never seemed so
                    beautiful to me since nor before. And never was the singing of the birds so melodious. It seemed
                    like a choir from Heaven to me. I was so tender and 
                  
                     17 In 1855 only one fourth of the teachers in the Indiana pubic school
                            system were women; by 1870 the number had more than quadrupled. Much of the increase
                            resulted from men's leaving the teaching ranks to become soldiers during the Civil
                            War. By 1890, 49 percent of the state's teachers were women. 
                                Boone
                            , History of Education in Indiana, 315, 318–19;
                            Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II, 331–32. In 1852 the annual
                            report of the state superintendent of public instruction stated: "Females are not
                            only apt to learn, but they are peculiarly apt to teach.
                            They seem designed and fitted by nature as the appropriate educators of childhood. They seem
                            to comprehend by instinct and by intuition, the physical necessities, the intellectual
                            wants, and the moral longings of children. And it seems their peculiar province to train,
                            influence, and govern children. It is natural for them, their instinctive propensity, to
                            love, to cherish, caress, amuse and instruct the young. And it is equally natural for
                            children to love females, to yield to their influence, and to be persuaded by them to
                            obedience." Indiana, First Annual Report of the Superintendent of
                                Public Instruction for the State of Indiana, to the General Assembly (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1852), 264.
               
                     overjoyed in feeling, that I would give way to tears from mere
                    joy. I have often wondered if it was not a foretaste of Heaven. If the song of angels shall give
                    such rapture, and beauty of Heaven shall fill me with joy as these did on my first days out of the
                    house of confinement, it will be grand beyond description. Eye hath not seen nor ear heard, neither
                    hath it entered into the heart of man to conceive of the glories which the Father shall reveal to us
                    in the day we shall set foot on the threshold of Heaven.18 And the best is these
                    shall never cloy or grow old. My hair all came out and my scalp was as smooth and bald as the palm
                    of the hand for a while. In Aug. we attended a camp meeting, and I felt ashamed when I pulled my hat
                    off. But I took it off, sat that way until the service closed, then before I could put my hat on, I
                    spied a boy tugging at his mother and pointing toward me cried out mother what is the matter with
                    that boys head. I felt deeply humiliated. But bye and bye my hair grew out again coming in almost a
                    jet black, and real curly, but within a few years, it began to turn grey, and before marriage at 25,
                    I was quite grey in front and on the top of my head.
            In the Winter of 1863–4 our School was taught by 
                        Rochester
                     Hobbs, a bachelor of about 35 years of age, tall and lank and rather odd in his manner
                    and speech. We had a fairly good school, but there were deep snows that winter and very cold
                    weather, which interfered with the attendance. New Years Day, 1864 was the coldest ever recorded
                    before or since. Several persons were frozen to death at their work. It reached far in the South
                    where the activities [of] war [were] in progress, and to keep the soldiers in camp from freezing,
                    great piles of logs were kept burning all day and at night.19 It lasted only a
                    few days, but the ground remained covered with its blanket snow most of the winter. School closed
                    rather early and, we resumed our work of clearing on the farm, that and the planting, cultivating
                    and harvesting of the crop occupied the rest of the season.
            
               
                  18 "But as it is written, Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard,
                        neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that
                        love him." 1 Corinthians 2:9.
               
                  19 On January 2, 1864, Calvin Fletcher, a wealthy 
                            Indianapolis
                         banker, wrote in his diary: "The Thermometer ranged from 12 to 16 all day
                        yesterday below zero & mine was lower that is 21 below (Z.) in the morn low[er] than it
                        has been for 4 years—the last 2 not below 10 but once & then a short time. At
                        sundown this eve it was at 14 below. Great many persons are frost bitten .. . Several soldiers
                        are said to have perished while on Sentry .... How extensive the mischief I know not. I doubt
                        that no time since I have been in the [West] (47 years) that there was ever a time where the
                        Thermometer was below (Z.) steadily for 24 hours." Gayle Thornbrough and Paula Corpuz,
                        eds., The Diary of Calvin Fletcher. Volume VIII, 1863–1864: Including Letters to and from Calvin Fletcher (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1981), 304.
            
            
            In the winter of 1864–5, our school was taught by John Tressle, a young man from 
                        Poland
                     [
                        Clay County
                    , Indiana]—a man of very limited education, but endowed with good ability,
                    and a good disciplinarian. He had a full school of about 75, quite a number in advanced classes, and
                    competition ran high. Several of the pupils were better acquainted with the branches taught than the
                    teacher, but he managed to keep out of the way of the clases progress, and we had a progressive
                    school.
            Beginning in July, I attended an 8 weeks term of select school at Center Point, Ind, taught by Wm
                    Travis, Co. Superintendent of schools and Charles P. Eppert, an ex-civil war soldier. This was a
                    preparitory school for those who were preparing for the teacher's profession.20 The attendance of the most advanced pupils all over the County, and was well attended,
                    many of that group developed into good teachers and continued in that work for many years. At the
                    close of the term, I was with a number of others, was granted my first teacher's
                        license,21 about three months after passing my 17th birthday—just
                    a boy in his adolescense, too young to be entrusted with the control of a school, and as there was a
                    sufficient no. of older men to fill all the demands, I was left without 
                  
                     20 In 1865 the Indiana legislature passed an act requiring county
                            examiners to hold yearly institutes for the instruction of teachers. It was hoped that such
                            institutes would impart a knowledge of the principles and methods of teaching and school
                            management. Instruction was given in subject matter and teaching methods; new legislation
                            was explained; teachers exchanged ideas; and efforts were made to raise the teaching
                            profession to a more respected status. Although teachers' institutes had existed
                            during the pioneer period and had become popular in the 1850s, they were particularly
                            influential features of the educational system during the last decades of the nineteenth
                            century and well into the twentieth. In 1876 the state superintendent of public instruction
                            credited the county institutes with doing more to improve the methods of instruction in the
                            common schools than almost any other instrumentality. 
                                Boone
                            , History of Education in Indiana, 393–401;
                            Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, II, 332; Indiana, Laws
                            (1865, regular session), 36; Indiana, Twenty-fourth Report of the
                                Superintendent of Public Instruction of the State of Indiana, Being the Eighth Biennial
                                Report... (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1876), 89.
                  
                     21 According to the revised school law of 1865 teachers could be
                            licensed in the separate counties of Indiana by successfully completing an examination
                            administered by the county examiner (later the county superintendent). The subjects, or
                            branches, in which a teacher was to qualify were listed, and certificates for six, twelve,
                            eighteen, and twenty-four months could be issued, depending upon the examination. Despite
                            this attempt to develop a uniform system of licensing, abuses in the county examination
                            procedure lasted throughout the nineteenth century. Also as a result of the law of 1865 a
                            form of certification by the State Board of Education also developed. Stricter requirements
                            and several months' teaching experience resulted in a life license accepted
                            throughout the state. Indiana, Laws (1865, regular session),
                            13–14; for a complete discussion of the development of and changes in teacher
                            licensing in Indiana see 
                                Boone
                            , History of Education in Indiana, 321–23. 
                                Muncie
                             proudly mentions "going from the six months' trial
                            certificate, to the highest grade granted by the County ...." 
                                Muncie
                            , Memoirs, 3.
               
                     a school. I attended the home school that winter, and the next
                    summer I again attended another term of preparatory work, at the close of which, I was granted a
                    teacher's license a second time.
            In Oct, having obtained a place as teacher, in the district where, 13 year[s] before I had attended
                    church, in the same house (used for both school and church purposes, I began my first term, as
                    school teacher, having just passed my 18th birth-day in July. The school-house was an old hewed log
                    house, erected many years before, and had been used both for school and church purposes. It was
                    seated with slabs for benches, without backs the writing desks were two inch boards, smoothed on the
                    upper sides, and fastened to the two sides of the room. There were two seats with backs for the
                    small children and visitors. The slab-seats were long enough to seat from a dozen to 15 pupils.
                    Sometimes when the seats were crowded, one of the boys would be pushed from the [seat] onto the
                    floor, to the amusement of the whole school. In the center of the room there was an wood stove, made
                    to take in four foot wood, the door opening on the side of the stove. On three sides of the heater,
                    the pupils were seated, the younger pupils near the stove. The old house had no upper floor, and on
                    cold days it was quite difficult to keep the room comfortably heated. There was constant changing as
                    those near the stove would give place to those on the rear seat, by exchanging seats. The
                    teacher's desk was in the rear of the room, used as a pulpit, in the church service. We had
                    a full school, some of the pupils being older than the teacher. The course of instruction, ran the
                    whole gamut, from the beginner to the eighth grade. But we had a great time, both in the school room
                    and on the playground. For I had found my chosen work a pleasure, and that makes work easy.
            The following Spring and Summer, I worked on the farm with my father, and in the summer I attended
                    the Co. teachers institute, became a member of the Co. Teacher's Association,22 and was enrolled as one of the teachers of the Co, and State, which work and relation I
                    continued for 17 years. It was a great epoch in my life, when I was identified [with] the teaching
                    force of the State. At that time the school teachers were accounted as the most intelligent and best
                    educated citizens, the real benefactors of the State's citizens. Most of the teachers were
                    of high moral 
                  
                     22 One of the beneficial results of the County Teachers'
                            Institutes was the formation in many counties of the County Teachers' Association.
                            Unlike the institutes the associations were voluntary, their sessions were shorter, and the
                            discussions were carried on by teachers, not for them.
                            By 1890 an estimated two thirds of the counties had such associations. 
                                Boone
                            , History of Education in Indiana, 395, 447.
               
                     standard, and mostly church members, and taught largely for the
                    love of the work, rather than for the financial compensation, for the public school teacher was
                    never, highly financially remunerated.
            So my boyhood and adolescent years were lived among the pioneers of western Indiana, with as good
                    school privileges as the State then, afforded, but far inferior to those of today, and with few
                    church privileges. The closest church was two and a half miles away, over poor roads and most of the
                    time, we attended the church on foot. Our neighborhood was the out-cropping of four churches not
                    enough of any one denomination to keep up organized church service, but enough division in religious
                    belief, to prevent any concerted action, religiously, so grew up with comparatively little religious
                    training.
            But these pioneers, with plain living, dressed in their homespun clothing, and with little time from
                    their work to earn a livelihood, for self culture, were not devoid of human sympathy, nor entirely
                    dead to religious obligations. For the Sabbath was as well observed then as it is today, and in
                    times of sickness kindness was always shown to the family of the suffering ones, and the appeals of
                    poverty always found a ready response. In case, neighbor fell behind with his work on acc't
                    of sickness or misfortune, the neighbors joined to help him up with his work without financial
                    compensation. In the Spring of 1861, three of our family had typhoid fever—myself, mother
                    and older sister lasting April until first week of June, preventing father from attending to his
                    farm work, so he was quite a bit behind with his crop. We were all convalescing, mother and sister
                    able to attend to the household duties, in part, but I was still confined to my room, tho able to
                    walk about the room. Father had managed to plant three acres of corn, and put out part of the
                    garden, while six acres of newly cleared land lay unplowed yet, and it was getting late for planting
                    the corn crop, and that was our main dependence food and stock-feed. On Monday morning, eight
                    neighbors drove up to our gate, with their teams, their horse-feed and farming implements in their
                    wagons, and informed father they had come to help him up with his work by putting in the remaining
                    part of his corn crop and all they would ask [was] their dinners. So they drove into the field and
                    began the working of preparing the ground for planting. Mother and sister, with the help of some
                    neighbor women, prepared the dinner, and long before sundown, the six acres was plowed, harrowed,
                    furrowed and planted and the neighbors returned to their homes, feeling real glad that they been
                    able to render help to one in time of need. A dozen years after this, I was able render a like
                    service to one of them under like circumstances.  In those days,
                    this was not an uncommon occurrence. Without this mutual sympathy and help of one another, they
                    could hardly [have] succeeded, for in the clearing of the land and the erection of build[ings] they
                    could not have met the expense of hiring the work done. I have [known] 16 log-rollings in one
                    Spring, beside house and barn raisings, which was always done by neighborhood gatherings. I have
                    known as many as 60 men at one log-rolling, and nearly as many at a barn-raising. These were great
                    social functions, cultivating neighborly acquaintance and friendship. The women as well as the men
                    attended the gatherings. While the men were at work out-doors, the women busied themselves, at
                    inside work. Beside the cooking necessary for such a gathering, they busied themselves in
                    wool-picking, quilting or making clothes, for the clothes were all home-made in those days. The
                    out-door work was always finished before night, and the rest of the afternoon would be taken up in
                    athletic sports of some kind, by the young men and boys, such as wrestling, hopping, and jumping and
                    kindred sports, while the older men would rest in indulging in the neighbor-hood gossip. They almost
                    always remained for supper, which was a hilarious hour, but nothing of a questionable character was
                    ever allowed. These and the corn-huskings, apple-cuttings, pumpkin-cuttings, spelling schools, and
                    weddings furnished the social functions of the pioneers, in western Ind. These social gatherings
                    usually ended in some game of the mingling of the sexes, such as a play party of some kind, and
                    sometimes in a dance, but these were always conducted in a decorous manner.23
                    Sometimes the party was disturbed by one under intoxication, but he was soon removed from the
                    gathering until he had become sober, or taken to his home.
            [The last two paragraphs of 
                        Muncie
                    's "Childhood Memories" contain his reflections on
                    society's "sagging morals" during the later decades of his life. 
                        Muncie
                     particularly regrets the loss of respect that, to his mind, women achieved along with
                    the franchise, and he comments on their essential place in society as helpmates and mothers.]
            
               
                  23 The play-party, or frolic, like so much else in 
                            Muncie
                        's reminiscences, was a holdover from the pioneer era in rural southern
                        Indiana. Marching or swinging games, kissing games, music, and—where the principal
                        religious denominations of the district allowed it —dancing were the primary elements
                        of these get-togethers. Games and music included "Skip to my Lou, my darling,"
                        "We'll All go Down to Rowser's," and "Possum Up a
                        Gum Stump." For a complete description of the play-party games and music see Leah 
                            Jackson
                         Wolford, The Play-Party in Indiana (Indiana Historical
                        Collections, Vol. IV; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1916).
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               
                  
                            Fort Wayne
                         and Wabash Valley Trolleys. By George K. Bradley. (
                        Chicago
                    : Central Electric Railfans' Association, 1983. Pp. 288. Illustrations,
                    figures, tables, bibliography, maps. $36.00.)
            Indiana once could claim to be the heartland of the electric intercity railway. Only 
                        Ohio
                    's network of 2,798 miles exceeded the Hoosier state's total of 1,825
                    miles. While 
                        Indianapolis
                     enjoyed being the "hub" of the Indiana interurban system, with lines
                    radiating to every major central Indiana community except 
                  Bloomington, Fort Wayne
               , too,
                    boasted a highly developed network. Trackage went north to Kendallville and Waterloo; east to
                            
                  Lima, Ohio
               ; southeast to 
                        Decatur
                    ; south to Bluffton; and west to 
                  Wabash,
                            Peru, Logansport
               , and 
                        Lafayette
                    . These southern and western routes connected with most of the state's other
                    interurban lines.
            George K. Bradley examines the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     interurbans in considerable detail. He shows how a number of small carriers early in
                    the twentieth century came into the orbit of the Schoeph-McGowen traction syndicate and how later
                    the utility magnate Samuel Insull acquired control of these properties. Indeed, Insull interests
                    eventually dominated every major interurban in northern and central Indiana except for two roads.
                    The author also focuses on urban transport. He looks at how in the late nineteenth century the
                    region's isolated animal-powered car lines, particularly in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , evolved into trolley operations and how these companies regularly became associated
                    with electric intercity carriers.
            The interurban and urban trolley craze in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and the Wabash River region reached a climax shortly before World War I. In the 1920s,
                    however, the triumph of the good roads movement and the rapid increase in usage of the automobile,
                    motor truck, and bus hastened the decline of these earlier transit forms. Although the stronger
                    interurban routes attempted to meet the challenges posed by competitors, the hard times of the 1930s
                    caused their collapse. Yet, a few urban transit systems remained using electric power. After World
                    War II the ubiquitous bus replaced the trolley, and the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     area's longtime association with electric traction became history.
            
               
                  
                            Fort Wayne
                         and Wabash Valley Trolleys is designed for a popular audience, especially
                    traction enthusiasts. In fact, its publisher, the Central Electric Railfans' Association,
                    has had a long tradition of producing this type of detailed and richly illustrated  volume. Bradley has done a marvelous job of research; the
                    "nuts and bolts" story of these electric railways is told in an amazing
                    completeness, and he has included more than four hundred photographs and illustrations. The only
                    obvious weakness is his failure to discuss fully corporate strategies and finances. Also, the book
                    badly needs an index even though it contains a valuable appendix of equipment rosters, car and bus
                    diagrams, and specialized maps.
            If anyone later attempts to produce a definitive history of the electric railroad in Indiana, the
                    Bradley book will be a must source. And there are thousands of readers who will find
                    Bradley's efforts immediately rewarding, if only to grasp a faded chapter of the
                    state's transportation past.
            
               The University of 
                     Akron,
                                Akron, Ohio
                  
                H. Roger Grant
         
         
            
               California Gold Rush: Diary of Charles H. Harvey, February 12–November 12,
                        1852. Annotated by Edmund F. Ball; edited by Douglas E. Clanin. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1983. Pp. xxii, 136. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    appendixes. Clothbound, $10.00; paperbound, $7.00.)
            The California gold rush has been the subject of many diaries and accounts of personal experiences;
                    yet, there is always room for another. Especially noteworthy is this one from Charles H. Harvey, an
                    everyday person from Trumbull County, 
                        Ohio
                    , who made the 162-day voyage, via Cape Horn in the clipper ship Grecian, to California only four years after gold was discovered.
            Accidentally found in 1976 in 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, Harvey's let-terbook was delivered to Edmund F. Ball, an executive
                    of the Ball Corporation and a person with an avid interest in history. By itself the diary would
                    have been mostly a dull recounting of weather, latitude and longitude, and distances. Harvey was not
                    given to explanation, but Ball and Douglas E. Clanin have greatly enriched the original document
                    with extensive and intensive historical research and full descriptions of people, places, events,
                    and background.
            The result is an interesting, informative account of a twenty-seven-year-old argonaut who sailed from 
                        New York
                     to 
                        San Francisco
                    , subsequently failed to find his fortune, and evidently returned to Ohio by 1857. The
                    first five chapters relate the account of the voyage with its perils, sickness of passengers
                    (including Harvey), and en route visits to Rio de Janeiro, 
                        Brazil
                    , and Talcahuano, 
                        Chile
                    . Chapter 6 describes Harvey's unsuccessful venture 
                    
                  THE SHIP
                            GRECIAN
                     
                            IN THE DUTCH EAST INDIES, C. 1852–1855
                  Collections of the Maine Historical Society, 
                        Portland, Maine
                     .
                            Reproduced from Edmund F. Ball, annotator, and Douglas E. Clanin, ed., California Gold Rush: Diary of Charles H. Haruey, February 12-November 12, 1852 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 19831, frontispiece.
                in the California gold fields near Marysville, Stockton, and Sonora. There are two
                    appendixes—a list of Grecian's passengers and a notice of the
                    arrival and departure of the ship—from the 
                        San Francisco
                    
                    Daily Alta 
                            California
                        
               . The book also contains three useful maps, twenty-two excellent illustrations,
                    and an informative introduction, epilogue, and afterword; it lacks an index which might have aided
                    the reader and other researchers.
            Handsomely bound with an embossed clipper ship on the cover, the book is a quality product equivalent
                    to publications of the Howell and Dawson bookshops in 
                        San Francisco
                    . The logbook format and clear printing, with excerpts from the diary in brown type, add
                    notably to the general appearance and ease of reading. Although the diary itself has little direct
                    relation to Indiana history, its discovery in 
                        Muncie
                     and the relationship to Harvey's descendants (his son lived there later) make
                    it appropriate and illustrative of the experiences of countless midwesterners. The Indiana
                    Historical Society, Ball, and Clanin have provided an excellent addition to the field of western
                    Americana, bringing to light the unpublished experiences and observations of an ordinary  individual and relating them to the general knowledge of the California
                    gold rush.
            
               Purdue University, West 
                            Lafayette
                        
                Oakah L. Jones
         
         
            
               Fanny Wright: Rebel in America. By Celia Morris Eckhardt. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1984. Pp. xii, 337. Illustrations, notes, index. $22.50.)
            Frances Wright was a celebrity in the 
                        United States
                     in the 1820s and 1830s. Author of a flattering book on the country, written when the
                    Scotchwoman was only twenty-six years old, Fanny revisited America in 1824 when her friend the
                    Marquis de 
                        Lafayette
                     arrived for his triumphal tour. Inspired by his example, incensed by the injustice of
                    slavery, and influenced by Robert Owen's community in 
                        New Harmony
                    , she founded a plantation in Tennessee called 
                        Nashoba
                    , an experimental community intended to show how slaves working for their freedom could
                    be emancipated without financial loss to their owners. When the world learned that 
                        Nashoba
                    's leaders favored miscegenation and permitted sexual unions between unmarried
                    adults, Wright responded to outraged public opinion by launching a lecture tour to defend her views
                    of equality and freedom. With Robert Dale Owen she edited a newspaper that championed freethought,
                    women's rights, and the rights of working people and that condemned the influence of
                    churches and the power of banks. Her political views, shocking enough in themselves at the time,
                    were greeted with even greater vituperation because they came from a woman who dared to speak before
                    mixed audiences.
            Celia Morris Eckhardt examines the life of Fanny Wright from a feminist perspective, stressing the
                    limitations and strains placed on an intelligent and energetic woman who fought for a juster world.
                    She has painstakingly searched out Wright's correspondence and her diligent study of it
                    adds to knowledge of Wright's personal life. Responsibly refusing to go beyond the
                    evidence, she questions the currently fashionable assumption that 
                        Lafayette
                     and Wright were lovers.
            While presenting an engrossing portrait of a lively figure, Eckhardt's book lacks a sure
                    sense of the historical context of her heroine's life. She accepts far too uncritically
                    Frances Trollope's jaundiced views as accurate descriptions of American society. The book
                    could have done more to analyze Wright's ideas, seeking their origins and perhaps comparing
                    them to those of other radicals (surely "radical" is a more accurate designation
                    than "liberal," which Eckhardt more commonly employs). A better understanding of
                    the eighteenth century republican ideology behind  her view of
                    the world, with its fears of luxury, monied interests, and aristocracy, would have helped to explain
                    Wright's support for Martin Van Buren in 1836, a fact which Eckhardt found bewildering.
            Eckhardt has brought to light some interesting facts about Wright's marriage to William
                    Phiquepal d'Arusmont; however, her sympathies with Wright are so pronounced that she has
                    shortchanged the relationship between wife and husband. The 1939 biography by A. J. G. Perkins and
                    Theresa Wolfson, which quotes long passages from Wright's and
                    d'Arusmont's letters and offers different interpretations of some of
                    Wright's actions, can still be read with profit.
            
               Indiana University-Purdue University at 
                            Fort Wayne
                        
                Sylvia Neely
         
         
            
               U.S. 40 Today: Thirty Years of Landscape Change in America. By Thomas R. Vale
                    and Geraldine R. Vale. (
                        Madison
                    : University of Wisconsin Press, 1983. Pp. xii, 198. Maps, illustrations, notes, index.
                    Clothbound, $27.50; paperbound, $14.95.)
            In the 1870s George Perkins Marsh, outspoken conservationist of his time, issued a warning to his
                    fellow Americans that "we are losing our ability to see." His admonition came
                    about because he believed that humankind was causing rapid deterioration of the environment and that
                    people needed to become more conscious of their surroundings.
            Today, Americans are certainly in need of similar exhortation. Their modern, fast-paced, mobile
                    lifestyle has placed them increasingly in a less direct relationship to the landscape. In 1950
                    historian George R. Stewart helped to alleviate this situation when his U.S. 40: Cross
                        Section of the 
                            United States
                         of America was published. In this magnificent book Stewart showed that travel
                    and landscape appreciation could go hand in hand. As he journeyed across America on US. 40, he
                    stopped at intervals to take photographs that would reveal the personality of the route and its
                    highway. He did not seek the unique landscape elements but, rather, the common, everyday features
                    that provided for regional diversity as one traveled across the country. Along with his photographs
                    Stewart provided descriptive details, including his own subjective comments. Needless to say, the
                    book was very successful and has been required reading in geography, history, sociology, and other
                    courses.
            Surprisingly, there have been few attempts to relate the traveler with the landscape in the manner of
                    Stewart's excellent 
                    
                  FARM ON THE NATIONAL ROAD (U.S. 40) IN INDIANA TOP,
                            1950; BOTTOM, 1980
                  Reproduced from Thomas R Vale and Geraldine R. Vale, U.S. 40 Today:
                                Thirty Years of Landscape Change in America (
                                Madison
                            , Wis, 1983). 66.
               
                     chronicle, at least not until the publication in 1983 of US. 40 Today: Thirty Years of Landscape Change in America by Thomas R. Vale and
                    Geraldine R. Vale. By 1980 the Vales, both teachers of geography, had retraced Stewart's
                    steps, or better, his tire tracks, compiling in the process both a photographic and descriptive
                    record of the changes at those sites that Stewart had visited in 1950 along the continental extent
                    of U.S. 40. Their book is, therefore, a "carbon copy" of the landscape vistas that
                    Stewart depicted except, of course, that thirty years separate the respective visual impressions.
            Indeed, the principal contribution of the new US. 40 is that the reader can compare
                    and contrast the 1980 location photographs with those of 1950 because they were taken essentially
                    where Stewart had stood thirty years before. As concerns format and content, there is virtually no
                    change between the present-day and the 1950 versions of US. 40. Of course, that is
                    exactly what makes this new book so exciting.
            After short introductory remarks on roads and motoring in America today, the authors begin their
                    visual and verbal accounts of Stewart's sites along U.S. 40. They cover all but twenty of
                    the original ninety-two locations and, as in the 1950 version, divide the transcontinental journey
                    into logical regional segments. Each route segment is introduced by a short discussion of its
                    geographical characteristics and three location maps, including physiographic and political maps and
                    a national map of U.S. 40, showing the route segment under discussion relative to all others. These
                    maps are a valuable addition to the photographs and text.
            The representative landscape shots share a page, with the 1950 photographs positioned above the 1980
                    ones. The new pictures are identified by the same designation introduced by Stewart. The arrangement
                    of the photographs and their clarity allow for easy recognition of comparisons and contrasts. The
                    descriptions for each set of photographs have been held to a single page. As one might expect, the
                    authors concentrate on pointing out and explaining any apparent and not so apparent changes.
            The book ends with a number of pertinent "reflections," among them important points
                    based on the analysis of historically different landscape impressions. First, there has been less
                    change during the thirty years than one might have expected, and, second, the American landscape
                    remains as diverse as ever. US. 40, both the old and the new versions, is
                    essential reading for anyone who wants to look beyond the unique and who has a real love for the
                    American landscape.
            One might argue that the authors of the present US. 40 should have gone beyond the
                    site selection system used by Stewart  (i.e., too much emphasis
                    on historical sites in the East), but this was not their objective. Had they done so, in fact, it
                    would have lessened the importance of the book. One can only hope that similar efforts to present
                    visual and verbal descriptions of routes across the 
                        United States
                     will be forthcoming. A motorized public weaned and raised on interstates must learn to
                    "see" America again in a way many have never seen it before.
            
               Ohio University, 
                            Athens
                        
                Hubert G.H. Wilhelm
         
         
            
               The Making of the Mayor: 
                            Chicago
                        , 1983. Edited by Melvin G. Holli and Paul M. Green. (Grand Rapids, Mich.:
                    William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1984. Pp. xvii, 172. Notes, illustrations, tables, charts,
                    figures, index. $13.95.)
            
               
                        Chicago
                     is a political town in which important developments are dissected by analysts who rush
                    to their typewriters even before the last deal is cut. This is a high-risk business. Fortunately,
                    Melvin G. Holli and Paul M. Green were undaunted, and in The Making of the Mayor: 
                            Chicago
                        , 1983, they have produced a stimulating collection of essays that charts the
                    rise of black political power in 
                        Chicago
                     and the steep decline—if not the imminent death—of its famed
                    Democratic machine.
            A major strength of the volume is the outline that it provides of political decay and the explosion
                    that was the 1983 mayoralty. Richard J. Daley emerges as a powerful but flawed leader who
                    centralized all political authority in himself, fragmented black leadership, and so jealously
                    guarded his power that he left no heir capable of picking up his mantle. He left instead a
                    provocative legend that goaded and, ultimately, mocked his successors. Jane Byrne appears enigmatic.
                    Rising as a reformer who mobilized those forces that later swept Harold 
                        Washington
                     into City Hall, she became a self-styled successor to "Hizzoner,"
                    turned on her former allies, embraced tlle staggering machine, and attacked the legend's
                    son as the one threat to her own reign. Harold 
                        Washington
                    , charting a cautious path of political independence, became the beneficiary of an
                    enlarged black electorate, persistent Democratic factionalism, and a bitter racial campaign. That
                    campaign is the heart of the book. The unprecedented exercise of black political muscle, the battle
                    for "lakefront liberals," and the surprising emergence of Bernard E. Epton as a
                    serious contender for 
                        Chicago
                    's top prize are recounted with great verve, and the exploitation of the race
                    issue, by Edward R. Vrdolyak in the Democratic primary and by Epton's professional
                    Republican campaigners in the general election, is relentlessly exposed.
            
            Individually, the essays are always informative and generally high quality. The best are Paul M.
                    Green's insightful historical sketch of local primaries, Don Rose's witty and
                    revealing rendition of the 1983 contest, and 
                        Milton
                     Rakove's thoughtful reflections on the fate of the 
                        Chicago
                     machine. Robert McClory's essay on 
                        Washington
                    , Michael B. Preston's analysis of black voting patterns, and Richard
                    Day's treatment of campaign polling are also good. William Grimshaw has written a
                    provocative chapter on the rise of a new black reform ethos. The least satisfying essay in the
                    collection documents the media's role. In sum, Holli and Green have provided much more than
                    could be fairly expected so soon after the election of 
                        Chicago
                    's first black mayor.
            
               University of 
                     New Orleans,
                                New Orleans
                  
                Arnold R.
                Hirsch
         
         
            
               Revolutionary America, 1763–1789: A Bibliography. Compiled by Ronald
                    M. Gephart. 2 volumes. (
                        Washington
                    , D.C.: Library of Congress, 1984. Pp. xl, xl, 1672. End papers, index. Set,
                    $38.00.)
            A good bibliography, to loosely paraphrase the sage of 
                        Concord
                    , is the lifeblood of a graduate seminar. The one under review here will be pleasing as
                    well to the senior professors who conduct those seminars. There are, of course, other serviceable
                    bibliographies which deal wholly, or in part, with the era of the American Revolution, but in the
                    experience of this writer none come close to this compilation put forward by the Library of Congress
                    as still another contribution to the celebration of the Revolutionary bicentennial. The work was ten
                    years in preparation and constitutes "a guide to the more important printed primary and
                    secondary works in the Library's collections" (p. xxiii), which qualification must
                    be noted. But it is still the case that the compiler cites some twenty thousand titles in 14,810
                    numbered entries and, moreover, provides access to what has been left out for those who prefer to
                    decide for themselves what is "more important." With regard to the latter, for
                    example, Charles Evans's updated American Bibliography (entry 358) and
                    Joseph Sabin's A Dictionary of Books Relating to America from its Discovery to
                        the Present Time (entry 365) made it seem to the compiler unnecessary to list all of the
                    seven thousand plus contemporary pamphlets, tracts, and broadsides in the library's Rare
                    Book and Special Collections Division. He settled for about five hundred of the "more
                    important" items, which is fair enough with Evans and Sabin to point the way toward the
                    remainder.
            
            The organization of the bibliography is exemplary and should make the book manageable to lay users as
                    well as to the presumably more sophisticated professional practitioners. The work is divided into
                    twelve chapters, with the first devoted to research aids, including guides to manuscript
                    collections. The chapters and their subdivisions suggest how broadly conceived has been the
                    compiler's understanding of the revolutionary epoch. They bring into view the larger
                    perspective of the British empire, ranging through the secondary and primary literature bearing upon
                    the political, economic, social, and cultural forces at work in Britain and the empire at large, as
                    well as the narrower perspectives of the American partisans. The Revolution is dealt with
                    sequentially, topically, and regionally, as well as by states. A separate chapter is set aside, for
                    example, for consideration of "The West During the Revolutionary Era," which
                    section should be of considerable interest to readers of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History. The War for Independence is broken down not only by campaigns and battles but also
                    with respect to military organization, supplies, weaponry, and much more. The point, of course, is
                    to enable users to find their way toward their particular objectives with a minimum of effort.
                    Loyalists and revolutionary diplomacy are treated in separate chapters, as are also the political
                    history of the Confederation and the states and, naturally, the drama of the Constitution.
                    Fittingly, the bibliography concludes with a wide-gauged assessment of the literature bearing on the
                    economic, social, and cultural life of the revolutionary era and a final chapter that focuses on the
                    Revolution as personally experienced by individuals. Any categorial scheme such as this is bound to
                    involve duplication and overlapping, but the compiler has succeeded admirably in imposing order on
                    what could so easily have degenerated into a chaos of conflicting subsets.
            Finally, the compiler is to be congratulated on the restraint shown in the annotations accompanying
                    about 40 percent of the entries. Gephart was obliged to exercise judgment in determining which of
                    those entries were worthy of annotation, and although this writer might differ on a few of those
                    choices, for the most part the annotations do what they were supposed to: "aid users in
                    determining which works may best meet their needs" (p. xxv). In sharp contrast is another
                    just-published, annotated bibliography on The War of the American Revolution
                    (Garland Publishing Co., N.Y., 1983), in which the compiler interjects personal historiographical
                    judgments in his annotations. Such is not the case with this present work. Gephart's
                    annotations are scrupulously objective in describing the contents or point of view of an article or
                    book.
            
            Despite the vast holdings of the Library of Congress, Revolutionary America,
                        1763–1789, does not by any means preempt the field. In the first instance there
                    are rare works not in the possession of the library, and in the second instance the compiler, as
                    already indicated, has not included all of the library's holdings in the bibliography. In
                    fact, he finally was obliged to adopt a cutoff date of December, 1972, in the listing of materials.
                    The more recent literature will have to be ferreted out from such standard reference works as the
                    American Historical Association's annual Recently Published Articles,
                        Dissertation Abstracts, and from a wide variety of subject bibliographies and guides, all
                    of which are faithfully listed in Chapter One of Revolutionary America.
                    Researchers will, therefore, look forward to supplements to the first edition of what will
                    unquestionably emerge as the bibliography of choice for students of the American Revolution.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Bernard Friedman
         
         
            
               Grass Roots Politics: Parties, Issues, and Voters, 1854–1983. By
                    Richard J. Jensen, with the assistance of Steven L. Piott and Christopher C. Gibbs. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1983. Pp. viii, 180. Tables, maps, figures, bibliographical
                    essay, index. $27.50.)
            
               Grass Roots Politics contains an interpretation of American political history from
                    1854 to 1983. The title is descriptive of the content in that it is concerned not with politicians
                    but with why individuals voted as they did and how political parties appealed to them. Voters are
                    classified as belonging to one of two psychological types, the "traditional" or
                    the "modern," and their political choices are explained in terms of those
                    categorical affiliations. The "traditional" voter is defined as one who is loyal
                    to family, friends, ethnic group, community, and especially party; who is outside the modern market
                    economy (a subsistence farmer, a gentleman of inherited wealth, a welfare recipient); and who is
                    "liturgical" in religious outlook, i.e., a believer in religious rituals, dogmas,
                    and obedience to clerics. The "modern" voter is one who makes decisions based upon
                    his or her own evaluations of issues and candidates rather than on group loyalty; who is a
                    participant in the market economy (a white-collar worker, a businessman, a cash-crop farmer, a wage
                    earner); and who is "pietistic" in religious orientation, i.e., a believer in
                    salvation through personal and direct experience with Christ, in evangelism, and in the elimination
                    of temptation to sin. The author holds that "traditional" persons voted Democrat
                    and "modern" individuals voted Republican during the period 1856–1880.
                    He uses the traditional-modern  concepts to explain voter
                    realignments for the periods 1880–1928 and 1932–1983 and the
                    "conservative reaction" of 1938–1980.
            The ways that parties organized themselves and conducted campaigns are also explained in terms of two
                    concepts. One, the army style, characterizes nineteenth century parties that organized themselves
                    into a military hierarchy and mobilized their troops by appeal to traditional party loyalty,
                    employment of extensive patronage rewards, and communication of issue positions through partisan
                    mass-circulation newspapers. The other, the advertising style, describes practices typical of the
                    twentieth century when candidates, using merchandising techniques and deemphasizing their party
                    affiliations, raised their own campaign funds, formed campaign organizations independent of party,
                    hired their own political consultants, and placed greater emphasis on their qualifications than on
                    partisan issues.
            The interpretative analysis is presented in a text comprising about one third of the volume, the
                    remaining two thirds consisting of documents—largely newspapers, magazines, and books
                    printed contemporaneous to events discussed in the text. The documents serve as informational notes
                    illustrating points made in the text where document numbers are given at appropriate places.
            The book reflects the problems inherent in the treatment of an extensive time period in a short space
                    and in the explanation of a complex subject in terms of dichotomies. All American voters do not
                    neatly fit into the "traditional" or "modern" categories. For
                    example, as the author observes, many black voters of the nineteenth century were outside the market
                    economy ("traditional") and were at the same time "pietistic"
                    ("modern").
            The general reader interested in American politics will be pleased by the author's writing
                    style. Students and teachers of American history may use Grass Roots Politics as a
                    point of departure in discussion of the electoral process. Hoosier readers will observe that there
                    is one reference to Indiana, which indicates that it is one of the few states maintaining
                    "very large patronage markets into the late twentieth century" (p. 32).
            
               Indiana State University, 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                William W. Giffin
         
         
            
               Essays on 
                            Lincoln
                        's Faith and Politics. Volume IV. By Hans J. Morgenthau and David
                    Hein; edited by Kenneth W. Thompson. (
                        Lanham
                    , Md.: University Press of America, 1983. Pp. x, 205. Appendix, notes. Clothbound,
                    $23.50; paperbound, $9.25.)
            Appearing in a series called American Values Projected Abroad and funded by the
                    Exxon Education Foundation, this volume,  according to its
                    editor, explores the extent to which and the ways in which Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    's "religious and political ethics represent core values in the
                    American political tradition" (p. x). The explorations occur in two separately authored,
                    long essays—one by political and social theorist Hans J. Morgenthau (left unfinished at
                    his death in 1981 and completed for publication by editor Thompson), the other by religious
                    historian David Hein. Together, these essays provide fresh perspectives on the much-debated case of 
                        Lincoln
                    's religious faith and political sensibility.
            At first blush, however, the essays could not seem more dissimilar, at least in their interpretive
                    approaches. The Morgenthau essay designs to account for the nature of 
                        Lincoln
                    's "greatness" of mind—not as a politician or a
                    statesman or a thinker but as a person—and this agenda requires the effort to penetrate
                    "the mist of mythological incense" (p. 5) obscuring those qualities of mind and
                    personality in which 
                        Lincoln
                    's genuine greatness can be discerned. In this, Morgenthau is not interested in
                    the ways 
                        Lincoln
                     measured up to and exceeded the historical roles which fell to him, for that would be
                    to limit his stature to what he did; the interest, rather, is in determining how 
                        Lincoln
                    's self-expression reveals his profound understanding of a way to be or, in
                    short, in finding "the nature of greatness" in what 
                        Lincoln
                    
                    was. He was, Morganthau contends, consistently and deeply religious. Oriented
                    throughout adulthood by the conviction that life always followed transcendent guidance that human
                    beings could not fathom, 
                        Lincoln
                    , in the distance he felt from this providential force, gained his centrally defining
                    quality of "detachment," not from the course of life but from the local and
                    momentary claims of self-interest, partisanship, ambition, and fame, all of which paled for him
                    under the shadow of eternity. Such detachment was not marked by indifference or apathy; indeed, it
                    liberated other qualities in him—objectivity, humility, compassion, toughness,
                    justness—with which he engaged the political realm and in which his greatness is
                    manifested in American terms. David Hein's essay likewise wants to
                    "de-mythologize" 
                        Lincoln
                    , but the mists he wants to evaporate are those in the scholarship on 
                        Lincoln
                    's religion more than those vapors rising from cultural mythology. In
                    particular, Hein attempts to free the scholars from the notion—in some respects abetted
                    by Morgenthau's views—that 
                        Lincoln
                     was a fatalist who succumbed to a grim determinism; and, with this charge, the essay
                    seeks to define the distinctive character of 
                        Lincoln
                    's theological outlook by examining it in its political and historical
                    contexts. In those contexts, according to Hein, 
                        Lincoln
                    's private and public expression reveals his consistent and radical monotheism,
                    his embrace of the doctrine of sola gratia, and his concernted  efforts to practice an ethics of response, each of which comes to the
                    fore when Hein draws to 
                        Lincoln
                    's case these ideas resident in H. Richard Niebuhr's essential
                    Protestantism. Thus, at last, the two essays in some respects converge in their views on 
                        Lincoln
                    's faith with Morgenthau's analytical subtlety lent refinement by
                    Hein's more sophisticated theological vocabulary.
            Despite their general successes in presenting fresh perspectives on 
                        Lincoln
                    's greatness and his theological views, neither essay is free of problems. With
                    Morgenthau's approach 
                        Lincoln
                    's "mind" seems rather too much a specimen on a laboratory
                    table, too cleanly removed from the world of ambiguity and inconsistency, too perfectly apart from
                    the web of historical actions and anguish. One could reasonably argue that, in 
                        Lincoln
                    's case, the nature of his greatness can be comprehended only
                    in historical context, in the maculate stuff of confusion and circumstance, limited possibility,
                    attenuated opportunity. In Hein's essay the agenda seems converted in midstream from an
                    initial intention to provide a historical account of 
                        Lincoln
                    's theology to the altered aim as the essay proceeds of a theological account
                    of 
                        Lincoln
                    's history. With this alteration Hein occasionally seems tone-deaf in dealing
                    with 
                        Lincoln
                    's rhetoric: he ignores the possibility that personal and political discourse
                    can disguise as well as disclose, can be duplicitous and manipulative as well as forthright and
                    affirmative. Finally, hard-headed historians might be inclined to conclude that both essays relent
                    too quickly from critical inquiry to celebrate the American values they find embodied in 
                        Lincoln
                     and, thus, that they bend too exorbitantly toward creating panegyrics to Abraham to
                    send abroad. Even if this is so, the book will heighten the debate on 
                        Lincoln
                    's religion.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Rowland A. Sherrill
         
         
            
               Railroads, Reconstruction, and the Gospel of Prosperity: Aid under the Radical
                        Republicans, 1865–1877. By Mark W. Summers. (
                        Princeton
                    , N.J.: 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1984. Pp. xiii, 361. Notes, appendix, bibliography, index.
                    $37.50.)
            Mark W. Summers promises the readers of this book a fresh approach to Radical Reconstruction. Through
                    a thorough examination of a hitherto neglected aspect of that era—the railroad aid
                    program of southern Republicans—he makes good on his promise, but, in doing so, he
                    prompts new queries about the strength and adequacy of his own thesis.
            Following the Civil War, Dixie desperately needed economic rejuvenation, and the majority of
                    southerners "trusted in railroads to achieve that end" (p. 46). Consequently, a
                    railroad mania  swept the section and, according to Summers,
                    provided Republicans with the central element for their political program. By advocating railroad
                    aid Republicans sought the support of ex-Confederates, as well as Unionists and freedmen, in
                    reestablishing a vigorous economy and creating a new South. In their appeals to white southerners,
                    Summers claims, Republicans propounded "a myth of Progress as a redeemer of the Old
                    South" (p. 14), a "Gospel of Prosperity" that they proclaimed with
                    religious rhetoric and revivalistic zeal. Messianic in its implications, this message centered upon
                    the doctrine that railroad aid would save the South.
            Once in office, therefore, Republicans focused upon the procurement of state aid for railroad
                    development. Obtaining public funding, however, posed problems—insurmountable ones.
                    Rampant localism undermined the financial bases of the roads, blocked the growth of a regional rail
                    system, and heightened the chances of corruption. Not that corruption needed enhancement, for it
                    attended the railroad issue at every stage. Promoters won friends in the legislatures through
                    bribery, while solons used the railroads for their own political advantage. Moreover, this blind
                    allegiance to railroad aid caused Republicans to lose sight of their own mission, betray their
                    commitment to human rights and the Union, and become a divided party. In short, the problems created
                    by railroad aid led, ultimately, to the failure of the "Gospel of Prosperity" and
                    of Republicanism itself.
            Summers bases his account of this Republican tragedy upon sound research, and his use of documented
                    evidence is particularly impressive. Unfortunately, however, the book tends to be plodding and
                    pedantic, and one becomes confused in its labyrinth of details. Furthermore, it is disappointing
                    that Summers does not explore more extensively the religious dimensions of the "Gospel of
                    Prosperity," for that intriguing phenomenon deserves more thorough treatment. Finally,
                    though Summers admits that railroad aid was not the only element of the Republican
                    calamity, one wonders if it was really as central and crucial to that party's collapse as
                    he suggests. One thing is certain: Summers's work will no longer permit historians to
                    ignore that aspect of Reconstruction, and that alone makes his book a significant contribution.
            
               
                  
                            Franklin
                         College of Indiana, 
                            Franklin
                        
                Lloyd A. Hunter
         
         
            
               The Rise of Industrial America: A People's History of the
                        Post–Reconstruction Era. By Page Smith. (
                        New York
                    : McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1984. Pp. xvi, 965. End maps, illustrations, index.
                    $29.95.)
            Page Smith, professor emeritus of the University of California at Santa Cruz, has reached 1901: five
                    thousand pages down;  many more to go. As his past award-winning
                    works predict, one finds sprightly writing in this volume. "I see my role rather as that of
                    the doorman who announces to the guests ... ‘Mr. William James, and Ms. Jane Addams
                    ...’ " (p. 908). The guests speak for themselves in Smith's
                    "innumerable biographies." A rich cross section of American life, including
                    particularly women, Indians, and blacks, is presented.
            Few American historians would attempt so monumental a task in this age of specialization. Their
                    timidity receives some reenforcement as Smith falters in this transitional postrecon-struction
                    period. In his concluding chapter, "Retrospections," he acknowledges thematic
                    problems. "My intention is to stuff into this chapter themes and topics that I have dealt
                    with in earlier volumes but that, for the most part, have not found a convenient lodging place in
                    this one ..." (p. 909). Reluctant to give up his old themes and uneasy with his new ones,
                    "the rise of science and the war between capital and labor" (p. xiii), the reader
                    is too often left querying, "Why these people, and where is this chapter heading?"
                    "Retrospections" ends with a whimper. Having discussed whether or not Americans
                    were "happy" in 1900, Smith concludes: "the question is stubbornly
                    resistant to an answer" (p. 928).
            No work of such size avoids errors. Pullman was in Hyde Park Township but was never named Hyde Park
                    (p. 192). John Hay's novel, The Bread-Winners (1882) did have good sales
                    but not "greater than any novel published since the Civil War" (p. 190). No work
                    of such scope handles with equal skill all aspects of history. Smith's economics seem
                    dated. Of the year 1877 he proclaims: "Wages and working conditions were, in general, worse
                    than they had been forty years earlier" (p. 165). This traditional generalization was
                    challenged in 1966 in Douglass C. North's Growth and Welfare in the American
                        Past, and current writings buttress North.
            These one thousand pages, as the past four thousand, have not one footnote. This volume, as the past
                    five, has no bibliography. Perhaps half the quotations are of the kind: "Adams sadly holds
                    in The Education of Henry Adams ...." The rest give no clues. From George
                    Bancroft to Daniel Boorstin all national historians have given their readers the chance to examine
                    their sources. Even a "people's" history should meet such basic
                    professional standards.
            This volume is not recommended despite its vibrant text and occasional insights.
            
               Wabash College, Crawfordsuille, Ind. George H. Davis
         
         
         
            
               The Uneasy State: The 
                            United States
                         from 1915 to 1945. By Barry D. Karl. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1983. Pp. x, 257. Index. $22.50.)
            The subtitle of The Uneasy State implies an encyclopedic history of the 
                        United States
                     for those thirty years that encompassed two world wars and a massive economic collapse;
                    instead, Barry D. Karl has produced a highly interpretive work that probes the struggle of the
                    American people to adapt their government to the challenges presented by industrialism and
                    technology. He finds their attempts to develop workable adjustments complicated by the ambivalence
                    Americans have always displayed between their desire for local control and the need for national
                    policies. Karl clearly deplores their reluctance to surrender local political prerogatives in view
                    of the international and technological problems that they encountered.
            The author excels in his analysis of Herbert Hoover and F#2 D. Roosevelt and in his comparison of
                    their attitudes and perspectives. The book also makes an important contribution to locating the New
                    Deal in its historical perspective by successfully relating it to its Progressive antecedents. Karl
                    attempts to counter "the myth that the New Deal was a liberal reform crusade that was
                    finally defeated by a conservative minority and that it stands somewhere in the wings, waiting to
                    reenter the stage on which American history is played" (p. 237). He believes that although
                    the New Deal changed popular perceptions of the federal government in the management of public
                    policy and of the president as the prime manager of programs, it was the chief deterrent to the
                    changes reformers have repeatedly called for in American government because Roosevelt was
                    essentially a professional politician who always sought a political rather than an
                    "administrative" solution to the problems he faced. A political solution in the
                    American system meant the preservation of local political influence.
            Because Karl's purpose is interpretation rather than comprehensiveness, his treatment of the
                    period is somewhat uneven. Perhaps because of his focus on interpretation and his use of facts
                    primarily to illustrate his various arguments, there are some lapses in accuracy, but these are
                    minor matters that do not diminish the effectiveness of this fresh and original look at the New
                    Deal.
            
               Purdue University Calumet, 
                            Hammond
                        , Ind. Alfred D. Sander
         
         
         
            
               Roswell Garst: A Biography. By Harold Lee. (Ames: Iowa State University Press,
                    1984. Pp. xv, 310. Illustrations, sources, index. $12.95.)
            Although Roswell Garst only attended college for a few semesters, he became an eminent
                    agriculturalist and practical agronomy experimenter of great stature. He, as a close friend and
                    business colleague of Henry A. Wallace, pioneered in the production and sale of hybrid corn. Garst
                    was an Iowa farmer, landlord, and founder of Garst and Thomas Hi-Bred Corn Company. Aptly dubbed the
                    "Great Innovator," he vigorously promoted such practices as the widespread use of
                    hybrid corn seed, intensive use of nitrogen as a chemical fertilizer, irrigation of corn,
                    utilization of the trench silo, greater mechanization on the farm, and the development of commercial
                    feed lots in the corn belt.
            Because of his close personal ties with Wallace, Garst supported the New Deal farm programs and even
                    contributed to the implementation of the corn-hog allotment program set up under the Agricultural
                    Adjustment Act. Although he was a lifetime Republican, Garst's loyalty to Wallace and other
                    Democrats, such as Hubert H. Humphrey, motivated him to support government management of agriculture
                    despite his free market inclinations. It was paradoxical that while he backed farm programs to pay
                    farmers not to produce surpluses, his own activities in promoting scientific farming were
                    instrumental in dramatically increasing the production of agricultural commodities. Garst, like so
                    many who lived during the Great Depression, could never quite relinquish his loyalty to the New Deal
                    for rescuing the farmers during the economic hard times of the 1930s despite the drastic
                    transformation that subsequently took place on America's farms.
            Garst received brief national attention in 1958 when Nikita Khrushchev visited his farm. His
                    subsequent role as an advisor to the 
                        Soviet Union
                     on agricultural matters was unique. Garst, a capitalist entrepreneur seeking to profit
                    from hybrid corn seed sales to the Soviets, nevertheless became a trusted friend of the Soviet
                    leader and an amateur diplomat working for peaceful relations between the 
                        United States
                     and the 
                        Soviet Union
                    . Seemingly, both Garst and Khrushchev did not look upon the Soviet purchase of hybrid
                    seed corn as opening the door to American economic imperialism, since both countries benefited from
                    the ensuing trade relations. Garst gave freely of his knowledge to the Russians in an attempt to
                    upgrade their archaic and inefficient agricultural system. The grateful Khrushchev later wrote in
                    his memoirs: "I recognized Garst... [as] a human being whom I respected  for his energy, his knowledge, his willingness to share his expertise
                    and, so to speak, his trade secrets with others, even with us to put to use in our socialist
                    enterprises" (Khrushchev Remembers: The Last Testament, 
                        Boston
                    , 1974, p. 400).
            Although criticized by ecologists for his advocacy of chemical fertilizers, Garst was always on the
                    lookout for ways to increase the production of food at home and in underdeveloped countries. He was
                    forever the salesman of scientific agriculture and the preacher of peace through agricultural
                    abundance. He lectured Khrushchev on the need for the Soviets to turn military armaments into
                    peaceful plowshares and was saddened by such Cold War events as the Soviet suppression of the
                    Hungarian revolution, the Berlin blockade, and the Cuban missile crisis.
            Garst was one of those rare individuals who, though generally not known among the general populace,
                    did influence the course of agricultural history. Many who enjoy the bountiful cornucopia of
                    America's farmers will benefit from reading this superbly written biography of a man who
                    deserves to be recognized as a pioneer of modern farming.
            
               Illinois State University, Normal Edward L. Schapsmeier
         
         
            
               A Black National News Service: The Associated Negro Press and Claude Barnett,
                        1919–1945. By Lawrence D. Hogan. (
                        Rutherford
                    , N.J.: Fairleigh Dickinson University Press, 1984. Pp. 260. Notes, illustrations,
                    bibliography, index. $27.50.)
            Inspired by the success of nationally circulated black newspapers such as the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Defender, Claude Barnett launched Associated Negro Press (19191, a black analog of
                    Associated Press and United Press International. For forty-five years ANPs small staff reliably
                    distributed a large quantity of well-written news and feature stories to member newspapers. Relying
                    heavily upon volunteers and poorly paid stringers, ANP covered black civic life and leadership,
                    national politics and government, black entertainment and sports, and developments in Africa,
                    Europe, and the Caribbean.
            Barnett dreamed of having a large, full-time, salaried staff with bureaus in major cities. He hoped
                    to add comics, editorial cartoons, photographs, and a pictorial magazine to his news and feature
                    service. Moreover, Barnett sought a reciprocal relationship with member newspapers in which they
                    would send news to ANP, thus shaping the wire service to their needs. None of this came to be.
                    Afraid of aiding competing papers, Barnett's clients did not accept reciprocity and
                    therefore never strongly identified  with ANP. Black publishers
                    not only refused to fund expanded staff and services but delayed or omitted paying basic ANP fees.
                    Accordingly, Barnett turned to the Republican party and private foundations to finance his agency.
                    Political money and Barnett's own partisan activity compromised his goal of news
                    objectivity and further weakened client loyalty, as editors reasoned that ANP could survive without
                    them. Thus, ANP remained Barnett's personal enterprise instead of representing black
                    journalism as a whole.
            By discussing these problems and describing ANP's operations, Lawrence D. Hogan adds to
                    knowledge of the golden age of black journalism. Had Hogan also examined ANP from its
                    clients' perspective, readers might have learned more of what ANP meant to its subscribers
                    and whether its members' stubborn individualism was indeed the main reason for their weak
                    support of ANP. After all, black newspapers cooperated to form a rival news service during World War
                    II. Perhaps Barnett's emphasis on "constructive news" was less appealing
                    to readers than the sensationalism he shunned. Hogan does not always critically probe
                    Barnett's motives, stressing his dedication to ANP but also mentioning action to the
                    contrary (Barnett's attempt to buy the Defender and his accepting a
                    federal job). One also wishes that Hogan had written a full-length chapter covering 1945 to 1964;
                    his five-page sketch of that period suggests that 1945 was neither the end of ANP nor the most
                    appropriate termination point for this study. Finally, this book suffers from inadequate editing,
                    leaving such lapses as an awkwardly arranged bibliography and a half-dozen misspelled andlor
                    incorrect names (pp. 25, 97, 125, 131, 240, 250).
            
               Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti Michael W. Homel
         
         
            
               Schools in Cities: Consensus and Conflict in American Educational History.
                    Edited by Ronald K. Goodenow and Diane Ravitch. (
                        New York
                    : Holmes and Meier, 1983. Pp. x, 326. Tables, notes, maps, bibliographic note, index.
                    $39.50.)
            Ronald K. Goodenow and Diane Ravitch have hosted several successful conferences on educational
                    history at Teachers College, 
                        Columbia
                     University, over the past few years. Complementing the many commissioned papers that
                    have appeared in a variety of historical journals, two collections of essays have been published,
                    both effectively edited by Goodenow and Ravitch: Educating an Urban People: The 
                            New York City
                         Experience (1981) and Schools in Cities: Consensus and Conflict
                        in American Educational  History. The latter volume,
                    under review here, is based upon a conference held in 1980.
            
               Schools in Cities is the finest collection of essays on urban educational history
                    available. Virtually all of its nine research-based and two conceptual essays could have been
                    published independently in scholarly journals. Goodenow and Ravitch obviously convened an exciting
                    conference, since the essays placed in this volume represent some of the most sophisticated,
                    imaginatively conceived, and effectively executed work in urban educational history currently
                    underway in the 
                        United States
                    .
            Several of the essays offer provocative glimpses into forthcoming influential books on the late
                    nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, notably Joel Perlmann's study of educational
                    attainment and occupational mobility in 
                  Providence,
                            Rhode Island
               , and Paul Peterson's
                    comparative, postrevisionist analysis of interest group politics and the evolution of public schools
                    in 
                  Atlanta, Chicago
               , and 
                        San Francisco
                    .
            The contributions of Perlmann and Peterson to ongoing methodological and ideological controversies
                    raging within the field of educational history, manifested in their careful quantitative research
                    designs and admirable sensitivity to the competing interests that have shaped the development of
                    schools (particularly the impact of teachers, parents, and children themselves), are also
                    characteristic of the other essays included in the volume. David Angus, for example, contrasts the
                    relatively weak role that political and ideological interests played in the establishment of common
                    schools in frontier 
                        Detroit
                     with the more clearly drawn divisions in the eastern states in the 1840s. His careful
                    political study, which advances understanding of the importance of
                    "ethnoreligious" interests in shaping antebellum schooling, demonstrates the value
                    of shifting attention from communities in New 
                        England
                     and the Middle Atlantic states toward the Midwest. David Ringel's study of
                    industrial education in Fitchburg, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , clarifies the way in which schools can be "misused" by students and
                    their parents. His fascinating longitudinal reconstruction of the school's graduates hints
                    at the process through which ambitious boys could exploit a program designed to prepare machinists
                    by becoming engineers, a pattern common at many early manual training schools.
            All of the remaining essays display considerable sympathy for the plight of children who are outside
                    the educational mainstream or who attended school in smaller cities, many outside the hinterland of
                    the major urban centers, communities too often neglected by historians. David Ment, Charles E.
                    Strickland, and Ronald D. Cohen examine racial discrimination and segregation  in New Rochelle, 
                  New
                        York; New Haven, Connecticut; Atlanta, Georgia
               ; and Gary, Indiana, as well as 
                        New York City
                    . Nancy Adelman explores the impact of Teachers College on three 
                        New Jersey
                     towns through the vehicles of graduate teacher and administrator training and the
                    powerful school surveys conducted during the Progressive era. John Ramsay considers the process of
                    political and educational decision-making in 
                        Buffalo
                    .
            Maris Vinovskis and Barbara Finkelstein critique the research-based essays by challenging educational
                    historians to develop better sampling techniques, more appropriate comparative examples, and
                    sensitivity toward the distinction between cities and "communities," which would
                    undoubtedly demand detailed neighborhood-focused research designs. Despite these shortcomings, this
                    collection represents first-rate case study research. All of the authors are successful in their
                    ambitious efforts to articulate and elaborate complicated and timely historical themes.
            
               Michigan State University, East Lansing Michael W. Sedlak
         
         
            
               Beyond Sixty–Five: The Dilemma of Old Age in America's Past.
                    By Carole Haber. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Cambridge
                     University Press, 1983. Pp. ix, 181. Tables, notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $19.95.)
            This slim monograph makes a significant contribution to the growing field of old-age history. It
                    studies the nineteenth century roots of modern institutions for the elderly. It explains clearly how
                    the idea of separating the old from society came to be viewed as a positive good.
            Carole Haber, like most historians of aging, begins by challenging David Hackett Fischer's
                    idea that colonial America was a gerontocracy. She deftly depicts the nature of patriarchal power
                    and the limits of the aged's authority and respect. In this period the helpless old were
                    cared for no differently than other indigents. Increasingly in the nineteenth century, however, the
                    elderly were viewed and treated differently. Haber traces the evolution of this
                    "classification of superannuation," the process of drawing a line between the
                    merely aging and the overaged and useless, among several professional
                    disciplines—medicine, charity work, social reform, and business.
            Two of six chapters are devoted to a cogent exploration of medical research and theories on the aging
                    process, research which by the end of the century culminated in the idea that aging itself was an
                    incurable disease. Thus, from the physician's viewpoint, the elderly became a special case,
                    immune to therapeutic intervention  Since the
                    physician's influence on American society, especially in the antebellum period, is
                    debatable, Haber's heavy emphasis on medical thought can also be questioned.
            The failure of the old to fit the therapeutic model of doctors was paralleled by their failure to fit
                    the therapeutic model of charity workers and the efficiency model of business. Haber shows how these
                    professionals all independently contributed to rationales for segregating the elderly. The relations
                    and interactions among these various professions should be explored. (Did leading charity workers
                    understand the implications of medical theories on aging? Were they influenced by them?) The end
                    result was that, by the twentieth century, the physical weakness and economic distress of a minority
                    of the elderly had come to be viewed as the norm; and institutional and bureaucratic responses to
                    this assumed norm would lead to further stereotyping and greater isolation of the aged.
            Haber frequently refers to urbanization and industrialization as transforming the elderly's
                    place in society. She provides an exemplary model of specific linkage between urban-industrial
                    growth and the changing position of the elderly in her discussion of mandatory retirement. More such
                    careful, delineated connections are needed.
            By studying the roots of professionally dominated modern care for the elderly, Haber avoids retracing
                    the declension thesis set forth by Fischer and modified by W. Andrew Achenbaum. Her perspective is a
                    welcome, thought-provoking addition to the literature for both historians and gerontologists.
            
               University of 
                     Colorado, Colorado
                   Springs Michel Dahlin
         
         
         
            Recent Articles, Pamphlets, and Dissertations in Indiana History
            
               Editor's Note. This list of articles, pamphlets, and dissertations
                    published in 1982–1984 is intended as a bibliographic contribution to Indiana's
                    history. We hope to present such a list in each March issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History. We recognize that the list is neither complete nor systematic in coverage, and we
                    hope that readers will help us by sending items for possible inclusion. We are especially interested
                    in listing publications that make some contribution to understanding Indiana's past but are
                    not normally reviewed in the IMH. Generally, we will not list newspaper articles or accounts of
                    local historical society activities (which are reported in the Indiana History
                    Bulletin), but printed pamphlets as well as journal articles may be listed. All such items for
                    the March, 1986, issue must be received by December 1, 1985. Many people have contributed to the
                    present list, but major responsibility has rested with Robert G. Barrows of the Indiana Historical
                    Bureau and Amy C. Schutt of the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
               Aquila, Richard, "The Iroquois as ‘Geographic’ Middlemen: A
                        Research Note," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXX (March, 1984).
               Arnold, Eleanor, Party Lines, Pumps, and Privies (n.p., 1984). [Second
                        volume in a series "Memories of Hoosier Home-makers," an oral history project
                        of the Indiana Extension Homemakers Association.]
               Ault, Gary W., ed., History of the Spraytown Free Methodist Church [
                            Jackson County
                        ] (n.p., 1984 [?]).
               Baertich, Frank, History of 
                                Troy
                            , Indiana [
                            Perry County
                        ] (Utica, Ky.: McDowell Publications, 1983).
               Bailey, Gary L., "The 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana, General Strike, 1935," LXXX, Indiana Magazine of
                            History (September, 1984).
               Beitner, Flora Shively, "Some Early Schools of 
                            South Bend
                        , Indiana," Old Courthouse News (Winter-Spring, 1984).
               Bodenhamer, David J., "The Democratic Impulse and Legal Change in the Age of 
                            Jackson
                        : The Example of Criminal Juries in Antebellum Indiana," Historian, XLV (February, 1983).
               Bolte, Bill, et al., 1937: Mud, Sweat and Tears: A Community
                                    [
                        Jeffersonville, Clark County
                     ] Remembers the Flood (n.p., 
                            Jeffersonville
                         Township Public Library, [1984]).
               Booth, Louise, Waiting for the Moment [
                            Sullivan County
                         during the Civil War] (Villa Park, Calif., 1983).
               
               Bower, Stephen E., The History of Fort Benjamin Harrison:
                        1903–1950 (Command History Office, U.S. Army Soldier Support Center, Fort
                        Benjamin Harrison, Indiana, 1983).
               Bowerman, John, "[David W.] Gerard, Founder of Supreme Tribe of Ben Hur,"
                            Montgomery Magazine, IX (February, 1984).
               Bradley, George K.,
                                Fort Wayne
                             and Wabash Valley Trolleys (Bulletin No. 122, Central Electric
                        Railfans' Association; 
                            Chicago
                        , 1983).
               
                  
                            Brown
                        , Robert A., The Story of Central Normal College, 
                                Danville
                             (Hendricks County) Indiana, 1878–1946 (n.p.: Privately printed,
                        1984).
               Burch, Marybelle, " ‘I Don't Know Only What We Hear’:
                        The [Indiana] Soldiers' View of the 1918 Influenza Epidemic," Indiana Medical History Quarterly, IX (December, 1983).
               "Campaigning in 
                            Mississippi
                        : The [Civil War] Letter of Private Jacob J. Gerber," Indiana
                            Military History Journal, IX (October, 1984).
               
                  
                            Carlisle
                        , John C., "Pursuing the Post Office Murals [in Indiana]," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Sunday Star Magazine, June 10, 1984.
               Carpenter, Inta Gale, and Joseph P. Goodwin, The Ivory Tower and the Town Hall:
                            Public Folklore and Public History in Indiana (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Folklore Institute, 1983).
               Carson, Mina J., "Agnes 
                            Hamilton
                         of 
                            Fort Wayne
                        : The Education of a Christian Settlement Worker," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, LXXX (March, 1984).
               Carwardine, Richard, "Evangelicals, Whigs and the Election of William Henry
                        Harrison," Journal of American Studies, XVII (April, 1983).
               Cassell, Frank A. and Marguerite E. Cassell, "Pride, Profits, and Politics: Indiana
                        and the Columbian Exposition of 1893," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        LXXX (June, 1984).
               Clark, Dorothy J., 
                     
                                Terre Haute
                            : Wabash River City (Woodland Hills, Calif.: 
                            Windsor
                         Publications, 1983).
               Clark, George P., "A Death at Point Lookout," Indiana Military
                            History Journal, IX (May, 1984). [Series of letters recounting the death in a
                        Confederate hospital of a Civil War cavalryman from 
                            Switzerland County
                        .]
               Crocker, Ruth C. H., "Sympathy and Science: The Settlement Movement in Gary and 
                            Indianapolis
                        , to 1930" (Ph.D. dissertation, Purdue University, 1982).
               Curtis, Helen Ulrey, "The Story and Career of Eliza Ann Wilson Ulrey," 
                     
                                Whitley County
                             Historical Society Bulletin, XXI (August, 1983). [About a 
                            Whitley County
                         teacher who lived from 1853 to 1930.]
               Day, Richard, "A Report on the ‘Gimbel Buildings’ [in 
                            Vincennes
                        ]," Indiana Jewish Historical Society Publications, No.
                        17 (June, 1983).
               
               Dickason, Olive Patricia, "From ‘One Nation’ in the Northeast
                        to ‘New Nation’ in the Northwest: A Look at the Emergence of the
                        Metis," American Indian Culture and Research Journal, VI (No. 2,
                        1982).
               Divita, James J., "Holy Trinity Observes Its 75th Anniversary," AmeriSka Domovina, January 29, 1982. [On the origins of 
                            Indianapolis
                        's Slovene Catholic parish.]
               Divita James J., "
                            Indianapolis
                        ' Italian Monument: Holy Rosary Catholic Church," 
                     
                                Marion County
                            /
                                Indianapolis
                             Historical Society Circular (October/November, 1982).
               Divita, James J., "The Italian in Indiana," Italian
                        Americana, VII (SpringlSummer, 1983).
               Divita, James J., The Italians of 
                                Indianapolis
                            : The Story of Holy Rosary Catholic Parish, 1909–1984 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Holy Rosary Parish, 1984).
               Divita, James J., Under Mary's Guidance You Will Never Grow
                            Weary—Remembering Bishop Joseph Chartrand of 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                   (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Marian College, 1983).
               Dorrell, Dillon R., Sr., The 
                                Ohio County
                             Community Story (n.p.: Privately printed, 1984 [?]).
               Engelder, Conrad, "The Germans in 
                            Porter County
                        , Indiana," Duneland Notes, XXXI (September, 1983).
               Ensley, Philip C., "Indiana and the Influenza Pandemic of 1918," Indiana Medical History Quarterly, IX (December, 1983).
               Exoo, Calvin, "Ethnic Culture and Political Language in Two American Cities [Gary,
                        Indiana, and 
                     Rockford, Illinois
                  ]," Journal of Ethnic
                            Studies, XI (Summer, 1983).
               Fees, Paul R., "New 
                            England
                        's Image of the Old Northwest and Its Incorporation of Western Cultural
                        Symbols, 1783–1820" (Ph.D. dissertation, 
                            Brown
                         University, 1982).
               "
                            Fort Wayne
                         Country Club," Old Fort News, XLVI (No. 3, 1983).
               Freed, Stanley A. and Ruth S., "Clark Wissler and the Development of Anthropology in
                        the 
                            United States
                        ," American Anthropologist, LXXXV (December, 1983).
                        [Wissler was born in 
                            Cambridge City
                         and took A.B. and A.M. degrees at Indiana university.]
               Fultz, Mrs. Robert (Dorothy Cunningham), "Liberty School in Wayne Township,"
                            
                     
                                Fulton County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, No. 52 (Summer, 1983).
               Funk, Arville L., "Captain Richard E. Miller: 
                            Fort Wayne
                        's Dool-ittle Raider," Old Fort News, XLVII (No.
                        1, 1984).
               Funk, Arville L., "A Hoosier on the Doolittle Raid," Indiana
                            Military History Journal, IX (October, 1984).
               Glass, James A., "The Architects Town and Davis and the Second Indiana
                        Statehouse," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXX (December, 1984).
               
               Goff, James M., "Excerpts from the [World War I] Letters and Diary of Private [Horace
                        Porter] Goff, Company C, 1st Gas Regiment," Indiana Military History
                            Journal, IX (May, 1984).
               Goldhar, Jeanette Pass, "Growing Up in Gary: A Random Memoir," Indiana Jewish Historical Society Publications, No. 17 (June, 1983).
               Griffin, Doris C., comp., The Civil War Letters of John McKitrick (
                            Lincoln
                        , Neb.: Privately printed, 1982). [McKitrick was a member of the 5th Indiana Cavalry
                        during the Civil War.]
               Hall, Oakel F., "Area 
                            Quaker
                         Settlers Establish Church [in 
                            Franklin
                         Township]," Montgomery Magazine, IX (March, 1984).
               
                  
                            Hamilton
                        , Donald E., "A History of FERA and WPA Workers' Education: The
                        Indiana Experience" (Ph.D. dissertation, Ball State University, 1984).
               
                  
                            Hammond
                        , Frederick, and Charles Daniel Smith, "
                            Akron
                         High School Class of 1932," 
                     
                                Fulton County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, No. 54 (Winter, 1983–1984).
               Hasse, John Edward, Indiana Music: A Sourcebook (n.p., 1983).
               Heino, Karl, "Paul Hoffman, Studebaker's Supersalesman," Old Courthouse News, XVII (Summer, 1983).
               Hess, Earl J., "Alvin P. Hovey and Abraham 
                            Lincoln
                        's ‘Broken Promises’: The Politics of
                        Promotion," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXX (March, 1984).
               
                  History of 
                                Fountain County
                            , Indiana (n.p.: 
                            Fountain County
                         Historical Society, 1983).
               
                  History of New Bethel/Wanumaker, 
                                Marion County
                            , Indiana, 1834–1984 (n.p.: 
                            Franklin
                         Township Historical Society, 1984).
               
                  History of 
                                Odon
                            
                   [
                            Daviess County
                        ] (n.p., 1981[?]).
               Holmes, Marilou J., "A History of Professional Nursing Education in 
                            Middletown
                         [Munciel, 1906–1968" (Ph.D. dissertation, Ball State
                        University, 1983).
               Hoover, Dwight W., John D. Hewitt, and Jack Kirchner, "Crime and Mental Illness in 
                            Middletown
                        , 1870–1910: A Study in Social Control," Indiana
                            Social Studies Quarterly, XXXVI (Winter, 1983–1984).
               
                  
                            Huntington
                        , Ira L., The History of Indiana's 
                                Jasper County
                             Schools, by Townships (n.p., [1983]).
               Jones, Robert L., "The Diary of Calvin Fletcher: A Review Essay," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXX (June, 1984).
               Kirchner, Jack M., "The Insane: A Study of Their Diagnosis and Subsequent Treatment
                        from Ancient to Modern Times with a Focus on Indiana and a Case Study of 
                            Delaware County
                         from 1869 to 1927" (Ph.D. dissertation, Ball State University, 1982).
               Klunder, Willard Karl, "Indiana and the Presidential Election of 1848,"
                        Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XVII (1982).
               
               Lane, James B., and Ronald D. Cohen, Gary, Indiana: A Pictorial History
                        (Norfolk, Va.: The Donning Company, 1983).
               Larson, John Lauritz and David G. Vanderstel, "Agent of Empire: William Conner on the
                        Indiana Frontier, 1800–1855," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        LXXX (December, 1984).
               Leiken, Richard A., "The Memorandum-Book of Thomas Posey, Captain, 7th Virginia
                        Regiment, January 12, 1776-May 24, 1777," Indiana Military History
                        Journal, IX (January, 1984).
               Lester, David, "Electrifying Experience [concerns interurbans]," Outdoor Indiana, XLIX (July-August, 1984).
               Light, Martin, "A Brief History of the 
                            Lafayette
                         Orthodox Hebrew Free Loan Association: Part II, 1960–1980," Indiana Jewish Historical Society Publications, No. 18 (June, 1984).
               Lovett, Bobby L., and Karen Coffee, "George 
                            Washington
                         Buck-ner: Politician and Diplomat," Black History News and
                            Notes, No. 17 (May, 1984). [Buckner was an 
                            Evansville
                         physician who served as Minister to 
                            Liberia
                        .]
               McDonell, Katherine Mandusic, Medicine in Antebellum Indiana: Conflict,
                            Conservatism, and Change (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 1984).
               McDonell, Katherine Mandusic, "W. D. Allison: Manufacturer of Physicians'
                        Furniture," Snakeroot Extract, No. 3 (October, 1984).
               MacPhail, Ian, "Natural History in Utopia: The Works of Thomas Say and Francois-Andre
                        Michaux Printed at 
                            New Harmony
                        , Indiana," Society for the Bibliography of Natural
                        History (No. 2, 1983).
               Mattox, H. E., "The Experience of War as an Inducement to Peace: Two Secretaries of
                        War [sic; should read "State"] as a Case Study,"
                            Indiana Military History Journal, IX (January, 1984). [Effect of their
                        Civil War experiences on Hoosiers John W. Foster and Walter Q. Gresham.]
               Mayhill, Tom, "L. S. Ayres: Master Merchant," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Monthly, VII (October, 1983).
               Medland, William J., and Morton M. Rosenberg, "Indiana and the 
                            Kansas
                        -Nebraska Act of 1854," Indiana Social Studies Quarterly,
                        XXXVI (Winter, 1983–1984).
               Melloan, Joan, "River Town on the Rise [
                            Madison
                        , Ind.]," Americana, XII (May-June, 1984).
               
                  
                     
                                Miami County
                             Schools, 1830–1930 (
                            Peru
                        , Ind.: 
                            Miami County
                         Genealogical Society, 1984).
               Mickey, Rosie Cheatham, "Russell Lane and Secondary Education in 
                            Indianapolis
                        : 1927–1949," Black History News and Notes,
                        No. 19 (November, 1984).
               Miles, Mark, "Oldenburg: Village of Spires," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 3 (May-June, 1983).
               
               Miller, John W., "Frontier Newspapers and National News: Indiana in the Early
                        Nineteenth Century," Maryland Historian, XIV (Fall/Winter, 1983).
               Miller, John W., "A History of the Press in 
                            Boone County
                        ," 
                     
                                Boone County
                             Magazine, X (September, October, November, 1983).
               Miller, John W., "Indiana Newspapers and Politics, 1804–1850,"
                        Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XVII (1982).
               Miller, John W., "Newspapers in the Indiana Territory,
                        1804–1816," Indiana Social Studies Quarterly, XXXVI
                        (Winter, 1983–1984).
               Morgan, Iwan, "
                            Fort Wayne
                         and the Great Depression: The Early Years, 1929–1933," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXX (June, 1984).
               Morgan, Iwan, "
                            Fort Wayne
                         and the Great Depression: The New Deal Years,
                        1933–1940,"Indiana Magazine of History, LXXX (December,
                        1984).
               Newman, John J., "The Indiana Computerized Census Project: Plans, Problems, and
                        Projection," Genealogy (January/February, 1984).
               Oldenburg, Joseph F., ed., "The Winthrop Sargent Diary, March 6, 1791-April 28,
                        1791," 
                     
                                Detroit
                             in Perspective, VII (Spring, 1983). [Diary kept during a period when
                        Sargent was acting governor of the Northwest Territory.]
               Olsen, Marilyn B., "White River State Park: A Celebration of Life in
                        Indiana," Indiana Social Studies Quarterly, XXXVI (Winter,
                        1983–1984).
               " ‘Over There’ With Private John J. Kerberg," Indiana Military History Journal, IX (October, 1984).
               Parker, Robert D., "Zollner Corporation," Old Fort News,
                        XLVI (No. 4, 1983).
               Peebles, Emmy, "City Street Names Changed Frequently [in Crawfordsvillel,"
                            Montgomery Magazine, IX (December, 1983).
               Peterson, Jacqueline, "Ethnogenesis: The Settlement and Growth of a ‘New
                        People’ in the Great Lakes Region, 1702–1815," American Indian Culture and Research Journal, VI (No. 2, 1982).
               Redler, Valerie, "Jacob Maentel: Portraits of a Proud Past," Clarion (Fall, 1983). [Maentel was a portraitist who lived many years in 
                            New Harmony
                        .]
               "Richard Corbaley's Dairy, 1855," Parts VI-IX, 
                     
                                Marshall County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, XII-XIII (July, 1983-July, 1984). [Diary of 
                            Marshall County
                         clerk, evangelist, farmer, newspaper editor, and attorney.]
               Rikoon, James Sanford, "The White Plains, Indiana, Threshing Ring,
                        1920–1943," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXX (September,
                        1984).
               
               Roberts, George C., "Claude G. Bowers: Hoosier Historian and the Politics of
                        Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow," Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XVII (1982).
               Roberts, Leanna K., et al., eds., A History ofWestfield and 
                                Washington
                             Township [
                            Hamilton County
                        ] (
                            Noblesville
                        , 1984).
               Robinson, Michael C., History of Navigation in the Ohio
                            River Basin (National Waterways Study NWS-83–5; 
                            Washington
                        : Government Printing Office, 1983).
               Ruegamer, Lana, "Gayle Thornbrough and the Indiana Historical Society," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXX (September, 1984).
               Schlereth, Thomas J., "The New 
                            England
                         Presence on the Midwest Landscape," Old Northwest, IX
                        (Summer, 1983).
               Schultz, George F., "Ralph [Gates] as State Commander [of the American
                        Legion]," 
                     
                                Whitley County
                             Historial Society Bulletin, XXII (February, 1984).
               Selm, William, "History in the Round [Monument Circle in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ]," Indiana Preservationist, No. 6 (1983).
               Selm, William, "Hoosier Architecture Shows 
                            German
                         Heritage," Indiana Preservationist, No. 5 (1983).
               Sever, Kenneth D., comp., Waldron Methodist Episcopal Quarterly Conference
                            Records, 1864–1908 (
                            New York
                        : Carlton and Porter, [1984]).
               Shriver, Phillip R., "America's Other Bicentennial [Northwest Ordinance of
                        1787]," Old Northwest, IX (Fall, 1983).
               "Sports in the Calumet Region," Steel Shavings, X (1984).
                        [a publication of Indiana University Northwest.]
               Sprague, Stuart Seely, "Pioneer Winemaker of the West: John James Dufour of
                                
                     Switzerland, Kentucky
                  , and [
                            Switzerland County
                        ] Indiana," Swiss American Historical Society Newsletter,
                        XIX (1983).
               
                  Star Woman and Other Shawnee Tales, retold by James A. Clifton (
                            Lanham
                        , Md.: University Press of America, 1984).
               Stetson, Erlene, "Black Feminism in Indiana, 1893–1933," Phylon, XLIV (December, 1983).
               Stevens, Errol 
                            Wayne
                        , "The Papers of Eugene V. Debs: A Review
                        Essay," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXX (September, 1984).
               Stock, James H., "Real Estate Mortgages, Foreclosures, and Midwestern Agrarian
                        Unrest, 1865–1920," Journal of Economic History, XLIV
                        (March, 1984).
               Sullivan, Jim, "The 
                            South Bend
                         Commercial-Athletic Club," Old Courthouse News, XVII
                        (Summer, 1983).
               Sussman, Rabbi Lance J., "Reflections: The Writing of Indiana Jewish
                        History," Indiana Jewish Historical Society Publications, No. 17
                        (June, 1983).
               
               " ‘Through the [First World] War With the 
                            South Bend
                         Boys of the 137th’: Excerpts from the Manuscript of Sergeant Dean
                        Wilhelm," Indiana Military History Journal, IX (October, 1984).
               Trautman, Frederic, ed. and trans., " ‘Life in the Wild’: Three 
                            German
                         Letters from Indiana, 1852–1853," Indiana Magazine
                            of History, LXXX (June, 1984).
               Trimble, Tony L., "Campaigning With Sherman: Hoosiers March to the Sea," Indiana Military History Journal, IX (January, 1984).
               Van Meter, Lorna E., "The Greco-Roman Architectural Tradition in Selected Indiana
                        Sites ..." (Ph.D. dissertation, Ball State University, 1983).
               Van Meter, Lorna E., "Dr. Jefferson Helm, Sr.: A Hoosier Greek Revivalist,"
                            Indiana Social Studies Quarterly, XXXVI (Winter, 1983–84).
               Wallace, Howard, "Schuyler Colfax and the Mails," Old
                            Courthouse News, XVII (Fall, 1983).
               Wernle, Robert F., Henry Smith Lane: The Old War-Horse (Craw-fordsville,
                        Ind.: 
                            Montgomery County
                         Historical Society, 1983).
               Widner, Michael, comp., Index to A History of the Catholic Church in the
                        Diocese of 
                            Vincennes
                        
                        by Rev. Herman J. Alerding... (n.p., 1984).
               Widner, Father Thomas C., ed., Our Family Album: A Journey of Faith (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Criterion Press, [19841). [Sesquicen-tennial sketches of the people and parishes
                        of the Archdiocese of 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Willard, Shirley, "G.A.R. Posts in 
                            Fulton County
                        ," 
                     
                                Fulton County
                             Historical Society Quarterly, Nos. 55–56 (Spring-Summer, 1984).
               
                  WPA Recreational Projects in the Hoosier State (
                            Indianapolis
                        : UAW Community Action Program of Greater 
                            Marion County
                        , 1982).
               Zoellner, R. A., "Indiana Odyssey [concerns interurbans]," National Railway Bulletin, XLIX (No. 1, 1984).
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
