
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 40, Issue 4, pages 319-428. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:40+issue:4+year:1944&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Henry Watterson and the Liberal Convention of 1872
            LENA C. LOGAN
            At the beginning of the presidential year of 1872, revolt was brewing in the incumbent Republican
                    party against the Radical faction which dominated it. This was caused in part by Grant's
                    ineptitude as President, by numerous scandals in high public office, and especially by the harshness
                    of Congress' reconstruction policy toward the South. A ground swell of discontent was rising among
                    moderate Republicans throughout the North. The movement first came to a head in 
                        Missouri
                    . A so-called Liberal Republican group organized there in the late sixties. It was led
                    by moderate Republicans who opposed the postwar Republican state administration's severe
                    proscription of ex-Confederates. Many Democrats, living under the suspicion of treason, were glad to
                    join the group in the hope of obtaining political amnesty. The Liberals carried the 
                        Missouri
                     state elections in 1870. They sent their outstanding leader, Carl Schurz, to the Senate
                    and placed B. Gratz 
                        Brown
                     in the governor's chair. The new party's chief principles included
                    amnesty to the South, civil service reform, and tariff reform.1
            
            The movement attracted widespread attention throughout the country because of its timeliness and
                    success. Many people felt that it should be extended to the nation as a whole. In September of 1871,
                    Carl Schurz raised the banner for a national Liberal independent third party to run a presidential
                    candidate against Grant who was sure to be the Radicals' choice in 1872. Reformers of various
                    stripes cast interested glances at the project:low-tariff men, Eastern 
                  
                     1 Earle D. Ross, "Horace Greeley and the South,
                            1865-1872," The South Atlantic Quarterly (Durham, 
                                North Carolina
                            , 1902-), XVI (1917), 334-35.
               
                     civil service reformers, women's-rights champions and
                    various others tending toward the "lunatic fringe." The most serious problem which
                    confronted the Liberals after they had won over the moderate Republicans of the North was to gain
                    the adherence of the Democratic party, both North and South. Grant could be defeated only by a
                    coalition of this magnitude. It was especially necessary that Southern Democrats be won over.
                    Liberal leaders and many of the moderate Republicans were becoming convinced that the welfare of the
                    entire nation demanded that the Federal troops and other types of Federal interference in the
                    ex-Confederate states should be removed and full home rule restored to the South. Southerners were
                    in a most difficult frame of mind: the raw sores of the war were constantly being irritated by
                    Congress' reconstruction policy, a new race antagonism had arisen, along with a blind resentment
                    against everything labelled "Yankee." Liberals had to overcome their distrust and bring
                    them to see that their only hope of home rule lay in cooperation with the best elements in the North
                    to bring about the end of Radical rule, rather than a stubborn refusal to cooperate in any way with
                    the Northerners. Suspicion and resentment existed on the other side, too; many moderate Northern
                    Republicans looked at Ku Klux activities and were doubtful whether the South had accepted the
                    results of the war in good faith.
            The press was naturally vitally interested in the Liberal group. The post-Civil War period was the
                    heyday of the great personal editors. Prior to the war, journalists were often mere party hacks; by
                    1900, the "counting-room," that is, considerations of finance and advertising, influenced
                    editorial policies. But for a generation or so, they were able to keep themselves relatively free
                    from outside pressure. A number of editors of outstanding ability and great force of character
                    attracted to themselves tremendous personal followings, whose first thought on grabbing the paper in
                    the morning was to turn to the editorial page and "see what old So and So says." The
                    attitude of leading editors in the various sections was bound to be enormously important in
                    determining the successes of the Liberal movement which depended upon popular support rather than
                    party machine.
            The dean of American journalists and one of the most outstanding editors of the country was Horace
                    Greeley of the  New York Tribune. He had made
                    a really great contribution in the building up of Northern public opinion against slavery in the
                    generation before the war and he had helped build up the Republican party's strength. These
                    contributions, as well as his well-known eccentricities of person and of minor principles, had made
                    violent friends and enemies for him. He consistently baited the South and the Democratic party
                    before the war but, since its close, had advocated sectional reconciliation and amnesty for the
                    South. His support would be valuable for the Liberal movement but not in a position of leadership,
                    as he was still suspect to the South.
            Other prominent younger Republication editors of independent views came out hearticly for the
                    Liberals, whose principles they had been advocating for some time in their crusade against Grantism.
                    The more outstanding of these included SAmuel Bowles of the Springfield, Massachusetts, Republican, Horace White of the Chicago Tribune, and Murat Halstead of
                    the Cincinnati Commercial.
            The support of the Southern Democratic press was particularly needed by the Liberal movement. Henry
                    Watterson of the Louisville, Kentucky, Courier-Journal took a friendsly attitude
                    from the beginning. His record for the past few years explains this stand. Although a Tennessee
                    Democrat and apparently a Unionist at heart, he had been a Confederate soldier and the editor of a
                    Confederate army newspaper during part of the war. When the war was barely over, in the spring of
                    1865, he became an editor of the Cincinnati Evening Times; and in the Northern
                    setting, the young ex-Confederate began his long crusade for reconciliation between the sections. He
                    continued the work for a while on the editorial page of the Nashville, Tennessee, Republican Banner. In 1868, he helped organize the Louisville Courier-Journal, which was a fusion of the ex-Unionist Louisville Daily
                    Journal of George D. Prentice and the ex-Confederate Louisville Courier. He
                    attained nation-wide prominence during the next fifty years as its editor. For the first ten years
                    or so of his career there, he devoted himself chiefly to his crusade for sectional reconciliation.
                    His primary concern was the restoration and rehablitation of the South. He felt that this could best
                    be attained by forgiving and forgetting about the war and turning the attention of both the North
                    and the South to the new problems which were arising in the postwar era. By 1872, Watterson appeared to be winning an uphill fight for recognition
                    of himself and his principles in 
                        Kentucky
                     and to some extent in the deep South. He had also won definite approval from
                    journalists in other sections, particularly the Northeast.2 During the course of
                    the campaign of 1872, Thomas Nast and other cartoonists introduced the public of both sections to
                    the dashing, ebullient young man with long flowing blond mustache and hair. His robust and usually
                    vehement editorials were followed by a widening circle of readers.
            Overtures looking toward a coalition were made by Liberals to Southern Democrats as early as the fall
                    of 1871. Democrats were discouraged by failure in the recent elections and were amiably disposed to
                        listen,3 but each group was afraid that it would be swallowed up by the
                    other. At the beginning of 1872, everybody waited for the situation to clarify. Watterson advised
                    his following in 
                        Kentucky
                     and other parts of the South to "lie low and keep dark."4
            
            On January 4, 1872, the Liberal Republican state convention of 
                        Missouri
                     issued a call for a national Liberal Republican convention to meet in 
                        Cincinnati
                     in May. Watterson remarked approvingly, "This begins to look like business"
                    and wished them "all possible success." He added that the 
                        Kentucky
                     Democratic party was ready to support "any liberal and patriotic movement having a fair
                    and practicable showing of efficiency."5
            
            Watterson's editorials to his constituents in 
                        Kentucky
                     and the South during the spring of 1872 reflected the delicate if not dangerous nature
                    of the political situation as it affected Southern Democrats in general and one Southern Democratic
                    editor in particular. He could not afford to get out on a limb too far in supporting the Liberals
                    and thus run the risk of being repudiated by the Democrats. His attitude was mainly one of watchful
                    waiting or what he called "masterly activity." Sending up trial balloons or smoke screens
                    as the occasion might demand, he felt his way carefully. His main 
                  
                     2 Lena C. Logan, Henry Watterson, Border Nationalist, 1840-1877 (Ph.
                            D. thesis, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1942), 249q-252 and the references cited therein.
                  
                     3
                            
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, weekly ed.,
                            January 10, 1872.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., January 10, 1872.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., February 7, 1872.
               
                     object was, of course, amnesty and restoration of home rule for
                    the South, to which end he worked for years in an attempt to reconcile the two sections in feeling.
                    In 1872, the chief tangible step possible toward the accomplishment of his purpose was the defeat of
                    Grant and the Radicals. This could be brought about only by a coalition of Liberal Republicans and
                    Democrats. Before Watterson came out openly and advised Democrats to join the Liberals, he waited
                    for several things to happen. The Liberals must give definite proof that they had broken clean with
                    Radical interests and the hypnotic influence of Republican party spirit. They must also nominate a
                    good ticket which the South would be willing to support. If they fulfilled both these conditions and
                    if the great independent Republican editors gave the movement their support, then Grant's
                    doom was certain, Watterson believed. The Democrats would show the "wildest folly" in such a case,
                    if they nominated a third ticket.6 He wrote in March, "We hold the old
                    Ship of Zion well to the wind, though we do fly a white flag and are keeping a sharp look-out for
                    friendly signals."7
            
            Watterson worked all during the spring of 1872 to reassure and bring together various discordant
                    elements in the proposed coalition. He reassured Democrats who were afraid of Horace Greeley, the
                    pioneer Republican, with the assertion, "There is nothing in the creed of Thomas Jefferson that
                    Horace Greeley may not faithfully subscribe to." One of the most intransigent groups of
                    die-hard Southerners, opposed to any suggestion of reconciliation or cooperation with anything
                    Northern, was led by Alexander H. Stephens, former vicepresident of the Confederacy. Watterson
                    assured Stephens that he would find no difficulty in subscribing to all the principles of
                    Greeley's 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune except those relating to slavery and the war issues,8
                    which, however, were of permanent importance to both persons. Watterson probably drove the blood
                    pressure of Democratic worthies several points higher when he went so far as to assert that even the
                    name "Democrat" was not sacred. "If the old Ship of Zion seem irreligious or old-fogyfied, call her
                    the Young Ironsides. In other words, what's in a name?"9
            
            
               
                  6
                        lbid., April 10, 1872; April 3, 1872; March 20, 1872.
               
                  7
                        1bid., April 3, 1872.
               
                  8
                        Ibid., March 20, 1872.
               
                  9
                        Ibid., April 3, 1872.
            
            
            Republican ill-wishers expected questions of party principle such as. tariff and currency to be the
                    great stumbling blocks of the Liberal convention and to prevent subsequent coalition with the
                        Democrats.10 Although Watterson was a strong advocate of lower tariff during
                    much of hi$ fifty-odd-year career as an editor, at this time he relegated it to the background. He
                    and all Southerners felt that the Southern question far transcended it in importance. He was not
                    sure, however, that Liberal Republicans were sufficiently convinced of its importance; from a purely
                    political standpoint, this question had to be stressed in order to attract Southern votes to the
                    Liberals. Amnesty to the South had been a cardinal principle of the 
                        Missouri
                     Liberals from the beginning. But now, Watterson felt that the movement had come to be
                    dominated by Easterners, who stressed tariff and civil service reform above the Southern issue.
                    There was no strong positive hand of sympathy between these two political, or rather sectional,
                    groups. Watterson jibed at the Eastern Liberals as being "too mathematical, too precise, too
                    passionless, too timid" to appeal to enough voters to win an American political campaign. They
                    needed emotional appeal which could be furnished by the Southern question. "A great political
                    revival cannot be attained by the application of the rule of three." The Liberals "must, as
                    they say on the river, 'fire up.'"11
            
            Even at times such as this, when he was assuming to address the South and the whole nation, Watterson
                    had to keep a watchful eye on the 
                        Kentucky
                     Democrats, whom many observers accused of being notoriously unruly and ready to break
                    over the traces at the slightest provocation. Early in 1872, the 
                        Kentucky
                     Democratic party situation was relatively quiet. A knock-down and drag-out fight had
                    raged between Democratic state administration leaders at 
                        Frankfort
                    , who represented the Bluegrass section of the state on the one side and
                    Watterson's Courier-Journal and the 
                        Louisville
                     interests on the other. The chief question involved in the quarrel was acceptance of
                    the results of the war, particularly the changed status of the negro, and a more amicable attitude
                    toward the North.
            By 1872, Watterson and his group felt that they had won; at least the administration leaders appeared
                    less intransigent. 
                  
                     10
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Gazette, April 4, 1872.
                  
                     11
                            
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, weekly ed., April
                            17, 1872.
               
                     Now Watterson adjured them to stick together and be ready to
                    cooperate with the national Democratic party and the Liberal movement: "Don't fire off any
                    pieces before the rest of the line goes into action."12
            
            By the latter part of April, the national political situation was shaping up well enough for
                    Watterson to become moderately optimistic. Liberals were no longer demanding that the Democratic
                    party should dissolve its identity in supporting them; all they asked was Democratic help in a
                    coalition to defeat Grant.13
            
            The Liberal Republican convention had been called to meet May 1 at 
                        Cincinnati
                    . As the time approached, interest in the convention, which was at first very slight,
                    became very considerable. Whitelaw Reid, Greeley's second on the 
                        New York
                     Tribune and a close friend of Watterson, remarked that "the 
                        Cincinnati
                     movement goes on gloriously."14
            
            Watching avidly, the 
                        Cincinnati
                     papers noted the arrival of the delegates and other luminaries in their city for the
                    convention. The press was well represented, as this gathering promised to be news of the first
                    water, no matter what took place nor how it ended. Watterson arrived before April 30, along with
                    other "prominent members of the press," including Reid, Bowles, and White.15 Watterson wrote many years later that he had "resolved to go a little in advance to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , to have a look at the stalking-horse there to be offered, free to take it or leave it
                    as I liked, my bridges and lines of communications still open and intact." He added that
                    "the full contingent of 
                        Washington
                     correspondents was there, of course, with sharpened eyes and pencils, to make the most
                    of what they had already begun to christen a conclave of cranks."
            As for the delegates themselves, "a livelier and more variegated omnium-gatherum was never
                    assembled.... There were long-haired and spectacled doctrinaires from New 
                        England
                    , and short-haired and blatant emissaries from 
                        New York
                    .... There were brisk Westerners from 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., March 20, 1872.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., April 17, 1872; March 20, 1872.
                  
                     14 Royal Cortissoz, The Life of Whitelaw Reid (2
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1921), I, 208.
                  
                     15
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Commercial, April 30, 1872.
               
                    
                    
                        St. Louis
                    ."16 Carl Schurz, the leading spirit of the movement from
                    the beginning, was on hand with his following. So was Whitelaw Reid, Greeley's personal
                    representative. With his 
                        New York
                     retinue, he was intent on setting the nomination for his master, the eccentric
                    "philosopher of Chappoqua." Even the carpetbagger dared show himself in a gathering whose
                    main purpose was to exterminate him. A few rather overdressed persons had been brought up from 
                        New Orleans
                     by her carpetbagger governor who had been ousted from the 
                        Louisiana
                     statehouse by a rival carpetbagger clique. There was also at the convention,
                    Watterson's main concern, "a motley array of Southerners of every sort, who were
                    ready to clutch at every straw that promised relief to intolerable conditions."17
            
            Generally speaking, the convention seemed to contain more cold fish than queer fish. Reporters noted
                    the gravity of the gathering, bordering on solemnity. "There were none of the rough and 'hurrah'
                    elements of ordinary political gatherings apparent. . . . There was no wild enthusiasm over anything
                    or anybody."18 Other observers of different temperaments praised its
                    conscientiousness, earnestness, and patriotism.19 The Courier-Journal reporters
                    harped on this characteristic while commenting on the rising stock of the convention: "The
                    grandest, popular outpouring that the country has ever witnessed," not "a ring of
                    disappointed politicians," but "the most influential men of the Republican party, and they
                    have the hardy mass of the people behind them."20
            
            This convention was promoted and dominated by journalists to an extent which is unusual in American
                        history.21 The fourth estate, which had been awakening to a sense of 
                  
                     16 Henry Watterson, "The Humor and Tragedy of the Greeley
                            Campaign," Century (98 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1881-1930), LXXXV (1912-1913), 29-30. Watterson's account of the
                            Liberal Republican movement exists in identical form in two other printed sources: "Marse Henry" (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1919), I, 239-67; and "Looking Backward," in serial form in The
                            Saturday Evening Post (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1728-), CXCI (1918-1919).
                  
                     17 Watterson, "The Humor and Tragedy of the Greeley
                            Campaign," Century, LXXXV, 30.
                  
                     18 Cicinnati, 
                                Ohio
                            , Commercial, May 2, 1872.
                  
                     19 George W. Julian, Political Recollections,
                            18A0-1872 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 337.
                  
                     20
                            
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, May 2, 1872.
                  
                     21 Ellis P. Oberholtzer, A History of the 
                                    United States
                                 Since the Civil War (5 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1917-1937), III, 19; 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Gazette, May 7, 1872.
               
                     its power and its function as an organizer rather than a
                    follower of public opinion and party opinion ever since the Civil War, came into its own and perhaps
                    tried to overreach itself at this time. Journalists had been the mouthpieces of party hacks for a
                    long time; now they were aspiring to be the molders of public opinion. Journalists had marshalled
                    the postwar liberal movements in both parties away from war issues and toward new ones. This Liberal
                    convention was a fruition of their labors. They had no intention of standing aside during its
                    meeting and letting the old party hacks dominate it, choose its platform and candidate on
                    consideration of politics rather than principle, and thus wreck all their endeavors. Also, they
                    would fight as the vanguard of a campaign against Grant. It remained to be seen whether they
                    possessed sufficient political sophistication to manipulate effectively the wires in the show versus
                    seasoned politicians. They possessed a great weapon, if they knew how to use it, and that was the
                    appeal to public opinion over the heads of he politicians.
            The editorial group that had promoted the Liberal Republican movement for several months and now
                    hoped to control its convention was known as the Quadrilateral, from the popular term applied to the
                    four great fortified towns by which 
                        Austria
                     had dominated northern 
                        Italy
                    .22 Its Republican membership included Bowles of the 
                        Springfield
                    
                    Republican, White of the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune and Halstead of the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Commercial. Watterson, the only Democrat, made the fourth side of the
                    quadrilateral proper. In spite of its name, two others were included in the deliberations of the
                    group. Schurz was the guardian philosopher and friend of the four aspiring younger men. He and
                    Watterson shared a suite of rooms at the St. Nicholas Hotel where the group often met. Reid was
                    suspect with many of the group as he was known to be working for the candidacy of Greeley which the
                    others felt would ruin the movement. However, they'yielded to his pleas and those of his close
                    friend Watterson and admitted him. They believed that Greeley had no chance and that the 
                  
                     22 Oberholtzer, A History of the 
                                    United States
                                 Since the Civil War, III, 19-20.
               
                    
                    Tribune, as the most important Republican paper in the country, was important as a
                    support of their cause.23
            
            Watterson was the only Democrat in the group and enjoyed great importance as the representative of
                    both the Democratic party and the South. Being only thirty-two, he was younger than the others, both
                    in editorial experience and in age. The 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette, which wasted no love on any of them, felt inspired to refer to him as the
                    "center figure of the group," surrounded by "its other members." This was a wise
                    movement on the part of Grant supporters; it was designed to indicate to the regular Republicans
                    that this group, as well as most of the rest of the convention, was heretical. Other papers did not
                    place Watterson above the rest in importance; occasionally a paper did not even mention him.
            The 
                        Cincinnati
                     convention's main purpose in life was to nominate a presidential candidate.
                    Its platform of tariff reform, civil service reform, and amnesty to the South was already understood
                    by the public and promised to give little trouble. The Quadrilateral addressed itself to this
                    problem as early as the night of April 29. Schurz, Bowles, Halstead, and Watterson favored Charles
                    F. Adams; White was for Lyman Trumbull; and Reid advocated Greeley. All agreed that the lucky man
                    must be distinguished for pure and upright political character as well as extraordinary ability.
                    They refused to be sidetracked by political considerations, dear to the heart of professional
                    politicians, such as availability and attraction to voters. Charles Francis Adams fulfilled this
                    bill to a "t," having been distinguished for his disdain24 of public
                    favor. He indicated his feeling for the Liberal movement by sailing away to Europe just before the
                    convention opened.25 One is mildly surprised that the genial and effervescent
                    Watterson supported a man of this type. He later confessed that he was not particularly devoted to
                    Adams but he felt that the country needed him, which smacks of the 
                  
                     23 Watterson, "The Humor and Tragedy of the Greeley
                            Campaign," Century, LXXXV, 31; Horace White, The Life of Lyman
                                Trumbull (
                                Boston
                             and 
                                New York
                            , 1913), 380; Oberholtzer, A History of the 
                                    United States
                                 Since the Civil War, III, 23.
                  
                     24 Cortissoz, The Life of Whitelaw Reid, I, 209.
                  
                     25 Watterson, "The Humor and Tragedy of the Greeley
                            Campaign," Century, LXXXV, 35.
               
                     mood of prescribing a dose of castor oil.26
                    Even Schurz, who was certainly no ball of fire, said that his "thermometer went down twenty degrees"
                    the first meeting he had with Adams.27 Lyman Trumbull, the upright and able 
                        Illinois
                     jurist, a former Democrat and friend of Lincoln, was the other favorite. It was hoped
                    that Trumbull and Adams could both be named on the same ticket, but apparently no effective efforts
                    were made to bring this about. Reid persisted in holding to Greeley. The others were not perturbed,
                    but assured themselves that the "Old White Hat" was "too eccentric and picturesque" to upset their
                    plans for "such a sober-minded convention as ours."28 The journalistic
                    leaders scratched off other hopefuls, such as John F. Palmer of 
                        Illinois
                     and B. Gratz 
                        Brown
                     of 
                        Missouri
                    . Watterson seems, at this stage, to have hankered a little after 
                        Brown
                    , who, because of his 
                        Kentucky
                     connections, "had better served my purpose."29
            
            The only ninepin that remained to be knocked down was Judge David Davis of 
                        Illinois
                    , now an associate justice of the Supreme Court. For several years past, he had felt a
                    chronic call to serve his country as a Democratic candidate for president.30 In
                    March, 1872, the Labor Reform party's nomination had been given to him. This maneuver was
                    regarded by the Republican 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette as having "the design of offering him as a bait to the Democratic and
                    Liberal convention."31 Many Democratic papers, with the exception of
                    the powerful 
                        New York
                    
                    World and the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Courier-Journal "regarded the labor ticket as a suitable one for the coalition" of
                    Liberals and Democrats. The leading independent Republican papers opposed him.32
                    Watterson said afterwards that the labor convention, "a gang of execrable 
                  
                     26
                            
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, May 6, 1872;
                            George S. Merriam, The Life and Times of Samuel Bowles (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1885), II, 181, wrote that "next to the 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, the 
                                Louisville
                            
                            Courier-Journal was the most serviceable advocate" of Adams' nomination.
                            The 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, as quoted in the 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Commercial, May 3, 1872, jeered at him as "a Democratic worshiper of
                            Adams."
                  
                     27
                            
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, May 1, 1872.
                  
                     28 White, The Life of Lyman Trumbull,381.
                  
                     29 Watterson, "The Humor and Tragedy of the Greeley
                            Campaign," Century, LXXXV, 31; 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ,
                                Gazette, May 3, 1872.
                  
                     30
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Commercial, April 29, 1872.
                  
                     31
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Gazette, March 19, 1872.
                  
                     32 Earle D. Ross, The Liberal Republican Movement (
                                New York
                            , 1919), 78.
               
                     dead beats," had been gotten up by Democratic
                    congressmen who hoped then to palm Davis on the Liberals as the Democratic choice.33 The 
                        Cincinnati
                     Commercial noted a "widely spread belief that Davis is the candidate of
                    Grant's officeholders"-probably because they thought he would be easy to beat.34 This illustrates the Quadrilateral's firm belief that Davis was tied
                    up with the reactionary machine politicians of both parties, the antithesis of that for which the
                    Liberals stood. Davis was the only aspirant at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , who possessed the asset of a "bar'l" of money. His organizers had a large and
                    vociferous gang at the convention, as telegrams had been sent to 
                        Chicago
                     for " 'the boys' to come down quick."35 All the talk in
                    the lobbies was "Davis, Davis."36
            
            This was, of course, the first direct challenge to the Quadrilateral, which had widely trumpeted this
                    as a reform convention above the maneuverings of professional politicians. They had practically
                    committed themselves beforehand to support the Liberal candidate in the coming campaign, so the
                    influence and dignity of journalism were involved and imperiled38 and its
                    success at stake. Many Republican delegates were already announcing that they would "go to 
                        Philadelphia
                    " -the regular Republican convention-if Davis was nominated."38 In this emergency, the Quadrilateral decided to "go to the country"-in a
                    sense, hold a referendum of public opinion over Davis' candidacy. This was the "chief, if not our
                    only weapon."39 They undertook his demolition with "an editorial blast
                    in the four quarters of the country."40 That evening, the four men, not
                    without a sense of the drama of the situation and of their own importance, prepared their separate
                    editorials in concert. The next morning, April 30, 
                  
                     33
                            
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, May 6, 1872;
                            Ross, The Liberal Republican Movement, 77.
                  
                     34
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Commercial, May 3, 1872.
                  
                     35 Watterson, "The Humor and Tragedy of the Greeley
                            Campaign," Century, LXXXV, 32; 
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, May 1, 1872;
                                    
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Commercial, April 29, 1872.
                  
                     36 Thomas J. McCormack (ed.), Memoirs of Gustave
                            Koerner, 1809-1896 (2 vols., Cedar Rapids, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1909), II, 548.
                  
                     37 Watterson, "The Humor and Tragedy of the Greeley
                            Campaign," Century, LXXXV, 32.
                  
                     38
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Commercial, May 3, 1872.
                  
                     39 Watterson, "The Humor and Tragedy of the Greeley
                            Campaign," Century, LXXXV, 32-33.
                  
                     40
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times as quoted in the 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Commercial, May 3, 1872.
               
                     each of their papers carried an editorial "striking 'D. Davis'
                    at a pre-arranged and varying angle."41
            
            As Watterson was the only Democrat in the band, he played a muted trombone. His position was
                    decidedly ambiguous in the eyes of the straight-out members of both parties. He especially needed to
                    justify himself before his own party.
            His contribution to the broadside was that, of course, the 
                        Cincinnati
                     convention was "a Republican and not a Democratic gathering." Therefore, its
                    doings were "only interesting to us Democrats so far as they enable us to meet the liberalism of the
                    country on an equal footing for the purpose of genuine reform and union. From this standpoint,
                    however, we sincerely wish it well." Warily approaching the business of the hour, he
                    charged that "certain well-known Republican wire-pullers" were trying to push through "certain
                    pre-arranged combinations." He never felt strong enough to mention Davis' name, leaving his
                    readers to learn the culprits from the Republican newspapers. For the benefit of his Democratic
                    audience, he was ignoring the fact that most of Davis' support came from Democratic politicians.42
            
            This was a tone of entirely unaccustomed moderation for Watterson. His timidity must have been due to
                    the difficulty of his position before his own party. The public response was evidently sufficient to
                    embolden him to explain the next day what he had meant the day before. Now he thundered against "the
                    already shop-worn candidacy of Davis" in quite his usual style. He made so bold as to speak for the
                    Democratic party and announced that "if we are to be beaten, we prefer to go down head and tail
                    erect, with our colors flying."43 Decidedly feeling his oats, he
                    offered the Liberal press the advice that the Liberal movement could not stand without their support
                    "and as far as we are concerned, we decline to prop it by a one-legged Democratic
                    boosting." The Democrats could support it only if it found a candidate who could split the
                    Republican party.44 The Davis boom collapsed under 
                  
                     41 Halstead printed them all in the 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ,
                                Commercial, April 30, 1872, so that none of the delegates would miss
                            them and used the caption, "This important editorial article will appear in the Courier-Journal tomorrow."
                  
                     42
                            
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, April 30, 1872.
                  
                     43 This is a noteworthy example of the Watterson metaphor.
                  
                     44
                            
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, May 1,
                        1872.
               
                     the Quadrilateral onslaught. Forty years later, Watterson
                    chortled, "The earth seemed to have arisen and hit them amidships."45
            
            Although Watterson could observe that since Davis' downfall, Adams' stock was "at a
                        premium,"46 signs of danger were not wanting to the
                    Quadrilateral's best laid plans. The 
                        Cincinnati
                     Commercial said that in view of the defection of Southern delegates from Adams, it did
                    not seem "wholly improbable" that Greeley would get the nomination.47 Later,
                    Bowles' biographer said that the squelching of Davis brought "Greeley to the front."48 The Quadrilateral doubtless developed overconfidence as a result of its early
                    victory and did not fear Greeley enough to bother with attacking him.49
            
            Watterson could not afford to take his eye off 
                        Kentucky
                     politics even during the short time he was at the convention. A 
                        Kentucky
                     Liberal Republican state convention had met at 
                        Covington
                    , across the river from 
                        Cincinnati
                    , the day before the national convention opened at 
                        Cincinnati
                    . It had chosen Cassius M. Clay of 
                        Richmond
                     for its chairman of its delegation at 
                        Cincinnati
                    . 
                        Kentucky
                     Liberals were divided in their preference for president. Louisville was for Adams,
                    probably due to Watterson's influence. 
                        Frankfort
                    , the state capitol, was for B. Gratz 
                        Brown
                    , who was born there.50 It was also the home 
                        Clay
                     boasted about having carried against the Watterson influence in 
                        Louisville
                    .51 This looked like the working out of the same Bluegrass-
                        Louisville
                     antagonism in the Liberal group that had already divided the 
                        Kentucky
                     Democracy.
            The formal proceedings of the convention must have seemed tame to the journalistic oligarchy who were
                    now congratulating themselves on the winning of their first battle. The assembly met in the great 
                        Cincinnati
                     Exposition Hall which seated more than 10,000 people. It was festooned with 
                  
                     45 Watterson, "The Humor and Tragedy of the Greeley
                            Campaign," Century, LXXXV, 33; 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ,
                                Commercial, May 1, 1872; 
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     ,
                                Courier-Journal, May 2, 1872.
                  
                     46
                            
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, May 2, 1872.
                  
                     47
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Commercial, May 1, 1872.
                  
                     48 Merriam, The Life and Times of Samuel Bowles, II,
                            185; Cin cinnati, 
                                Ohio
                            , Commercial, May 5, 1872.
                  
                     49 Ross, The Liberal Republican Movement, 101;
                            Claude M. Fuess, Carl Schurz, Reformer (
                                New York
                            , 1932), 190.
                  
                     50
                            
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, April 28, 1872.
                  
                     51
                            The Life of Cassius Marcellus 
                                    Clay
                                . Memoirs, Writings, and Speeches (2 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1886), I, 504.
               
                     evergreens and American flags. At one end was a platform with
                    seats for more than one hundred dignitaries, including Watterson.52 He delivered
                    the keynote address in the "usual style."53 The permanent organization
                    provoked controversy. This was a mass convention. Its delegates were not chosen in any regular way;
                    many of them simply appointed themselves. It was decided that the men from each state would get
                    together and choose its official delegates. This method did not represent the popular strength of
                    the group and gave rise to charges of bulldozing and packing.54
            
            Carl Schurz was elected permanent chairman. Although all conceded him to be the leading spirit of the
                    movement, many observers felt that he could have worked more effectively behind the scenes.
                    Watterson listened enraptured, saying, "Who that was there will ever forget his opening words: 'this
                    is a moving day.' "55 Schurz discussed the pure and lofty aspirations of the
                    movement and the country's need for reform. He mentioned amnesty for the South and the need
                    for sectional reconciliation. When Schurz specified that the candidate chosen must be of "superior
                    intelligence, coupled with superior virtue," no one doubted that he referred to Adams.56 Enthusiasm mounted in this staid, though eccentric, gathering. For two days
                    and a night and a half, the Quadrilateral had the world in a sling and things its own way.57
            
            The convention quickly adopted for its platform the well-known Liberal principles of civil service
                    reform, amnesty to the South, and acceptance of the three wartime amendments. It ran into a snag,
                    however, over the tariff question. David A. Wells and many North westerners wanted free trade;
                    Greeley's supporters wanted protection. They compromised by agreeing to leave the question
                    up to Congress.58 Such wrangling delayed the balloting until Friday, May 3. This
                    revived the Adams' candidacy. It had been riding high on Wednesday after the Davis fiasco and
                    Schurz's speech. Watterson believed 
                  
                     52
                            
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, April 30, 1872.
                  
                     53 Ross, The Liberal Republican Movement, 91.
                  
                     54
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Gazette, May 3, 1872.
                  
                     55 Watterson, "Marse Henry," I,
                            253.
                  
                     56 Frederick Bancroft (ed.), Speeches, Correspondence and
                                Political Papers of Carl Schurz (6 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1913), II, 354-61; Fuess, Carl Schurz, Reformer, 187.
                  
                     57 Watterson, "The Humor and Tragedy of the Greeley
                            Campaign," Century, LXXXV, 35.
                  
                     58 Ross, The Liberal Republican Movement,
                        93-96.
               
                     that Adams would have won if the vote had been taken that
                        night.59
            
            Even before the balloting began on Friday, the politicians had accomplished the discomfiture of the
                    reformers. Just before midnight Thursday, Governor B. Gratz 
                        Brown
                    , second in command of the 
                        Missouri
                     Liberals, and Frank Blair blew in from 
                        Missouri
                    . Both were jealous of Schurz on account of his influence in 
                        Missouri
                     and the growing national attention he was receiving because of his role. Although they
                    were identified with Greeley, their object in coming was to be, not so much to nominate the 
                        New York
                     editor, but to destroy Schurz and get him out of 
                        Missouri
                     politics.60
                    
                        Brown
                     even then was regarded as a "sort of Democrat on the half-shell."61 Part of his disagreement with Schurz resulted from the German's
                    ultra-Republicanism. Some observers reported that Schurz telegraphed the two to come and help him
                    persuade the 
                        Missouri
                     delegation to go for Trumbull.62 In order to offset the bad
                    impression made by their intriguing against Schurz, 
                        Brown
                     and Blair themselves started the rumor that Schurz had betrayed 
                        Brown
                    's candidacy in some undefined way.63 As Cassius M. Clay
                    remembered it, he himself was responsible for sending the fateful telegram to the two 
                        Missouri
                     gentlemen.64
            
            At any rate, 
                        Brown
                     and Blair came to town Thursday night, secured a room at the St. James Hotel, and began
                    their momentous conferences. T(heir object was, of course, to throw 
                        Brown
                    's presidential strength to Greeley and, in exchange, secure for 
                        Brown
                     the vice-presidency.65 Three of the Quadrilateral and their friends got wind that
                    something was up but failed at the critical moment to stop it. They dressed, 
                  
                     59 Watterson, "The Humor and Tragedy of the Greeley
                            Campaign," Century, LXXXV, 35.
                  
                     60
                            
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, May 6, 1872; The Reminiscences of Carl Shurz (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1907-1908), III, 345.
                  
                     61
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Gazette, April 16, 1872. Later 
                                Brown
                             and the 
                                Missouri
                             Liberals went over bodily to the Democratic party.
                  
                     62
                            Ibid., May 3, 1872.
                  
                     63
                            
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, May 1, 1872.
                  
                     64
                            The Life of Cassius Marcellus 
                                    Clay
                                , I, 505.
                  
                     65
                            The Reminiscences of Carl Schurz, III, 345; Oberholzter, A
                                History of the 
                                    United States
                                 Since the Civil War, III, 24; 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ,
                                Gazette, May 3, 1872; 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Commercial, May 3, 1872; 
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     ,
                                Courier-Journal, May 6, 1872.
               
                     came downstairs to the Burnett House lobby, and waited
                    uneasily, unable to make up their minds as to what was going on or what they should do about it.66 Only Halstead took any action. He shrewdly guessed what was up and stuck a
                    warning editorial in the Commercial. Forces such as these were the only
                    combination able to beat Greeley and 
                        Brown
                    .67
            
            Where was the Democratic member of the Quadrilateral at this crisis? The stage was all set for a
                    dramatic, last-minute rescue but Watterson missed his cue. He explained, later, that his business as
                    editor of a morning daily, made him something of a night owl and unable to go to bed "before the
                    presses began to thunder below" for the morning Courier-Journal. This unfortunate
                    habit made him a prey to temptation on Thursday night. At the solicitation of a "party of
                    Kentuckians, some of whom had come to back me and some to watch me," he went over the river
                    to 
                        Covington
                     to celebrate the triumph of principle over politics at the convention. The occasion was
                    sufficiently important to claim his attention "until the wee sma' hours ayont the twel."
            When he did reach his hotel, just before going to bed, he glanced at the early edition of the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Commercial which contained Halstead's warning editorial. Watterson
                    noticed that "something-I was too tired to decipher precisely what-had happened." He was
                    unable to present himself at the convention hall until toward noon the next day. By that time, 
                        Brown
                     and Blair's work was over; their little scheme for nominating Greeley had been
                    put over and the convention was spiked. Watterson claimed later that he had in his possession
                    "documents which would have induced at least one of them to pause before making himself
                    conspicuous." The other members of the Quadrilateral knew that he had the documents but
                    were unable to find him. When Watterson reached the convention hall Friday morning, he had an "angry
                    collision" with either Blair or 
                        Brown
                    -probably 
                        Brown
                    , but the horse had already been stolen.68
            
            A sensation of a wildly alarming historical nature might be made out to the effect that Watterson was
                    taken off and 
                  
                     66 White, The Life of Lyman Trumbull, 382.
                  
                     67
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Commercial, May 3, 1872.
                  
                     68 Watterson, "The Humor and Tragedy of the Greeley
                            Campaign," Century, LXXXV, 39.
               
                     put in cold storage that night by some Kentuckians, possessed
                    with malice aforethought.Watterson said part of them were there to watch or guard him. 
                        Clay
                     said he had sent the telegram to 
                        Brown
                    . The Courier-Journal stated that 
                        Clay
                    's "friendship for Greeley was made available."69
                    The Commercial said the Greeley movement was "specially assisted by 
                        Brown
                    's 
                        Kentucky
                     friends."70 But this is not likely-it rests too much on
                    old gentlemen's memoirs.
            The scene at the convention hall the morning Watterson was absent was dramatic. It gave Adams a
                    56-vote lead over Greeley. At its close B. Gratz 
                        Brown
                     asked permission to speak. Schurz was suspicious but a sense of fair play made him
                    reluctantly agree, in view of 
                        Brown
                    's candidacy. So, "up the platform stairs slowly mounted Mr. B. Gratz 
                        Brown
                    , the sun from the upper windows, striking with fierce light on his red beard and hair
                    and pallid features."71 Some observers were evidently struck with his
                    resemblance to a being out of the infernal regions. 
                        Brown
                     made an amnesty speech, throwing his support to Greeley and calling upon all who could
                    to rally to Greeley's support. But nothing happened for several ballots. Once more the
                    Adams and Trumbull followers were too inept and too inexperienced to save the situation. Many
                    observers, including Watterson, believed that concerted action on the part of Adams and Trumbull
                    followers at this point would have carried the convention, but they waited too long.72
            
            Upon his arrival, Watterson did make an attempt. 
                        Clay
                    , chairman of the 
                        Kentucky
                     delegates, recalled later that at this stage of the convention "a small, flaxen-haired,
                    'chipper' man" bounded down from the platform to 
                        Clay
                    's seat and besought him to use his influence for Adams, which 
                        Clay
                     refused to do. After the young man had gone, 
                        Clay
                     asked a neighbor who he was and received the reply that that was 
                  
                     69
                            
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, May 1, 1872.
                  
                     70
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Commercial, May 3, 1872.
                  
                     71 "The 
                                Cincinnati
                             Convention," The Nation (
                                New York
                            , 1865-), XIV (1872), 304; Fuess, Carl Schurz, Reformer, 192.
                  
                     72 Ross, The Liberal Republican Movement, 102;
                            McCormack, Memoirs of Gustave Koerner, 1809-1896, II, 554-55; Julian, Political Recollections 1840-1872, p. 339; 
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, May 6, 1872. Others,
                            however, hold 
                                Brown
                             and Blair responsible for Greeley's nomination. Oberholtzer, A History of the 
                                    United States
                                 Since the Civil War, III, 24-29; 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ,
                                Commericial, May 4, 1872.
               
                     Henry Watterson.73
                    
                        Clay
                     later offered the theory that Adams was unpopular in the North since the time of
                    Jackson and in the South, because of his family's opposition to Henry Clay.74 After the convention was over, he wrote Watterson a conciliatory note about the failure
                    of Adams' candidacy.75
            
            Adams was still ahead until the fifth ballot. Then 
                        Brown
                     and Blair sprang their trump card, "the spontaneous rally which had been
                    carefully planned the night before." At first, the rally appeared stiff, then wavered, then
                    gained momentum and swelled into a torrent of enthusiasm and Horace Greeley was nominated, the staid
                    and eccentric convention shouting itself hoarse. A gleeful Republican paper stuck on its front page
                    an isolated paragraph stating that "not a face in the hall grew paler than that of Henry Watterson"
                    when the nomination of Greeley was accomplished.76
            
            So the Quadrilateral had been knocked into a cocked hat.77 "The corruptionists
                    were too much for the newspaper combinations,"78 exulted the Radicals
                    who faced most danger from the clean character of the reform movement. They made the most of the
                    fact that it had been captured by old-line party hacks. This made less of a contrast between it and
                    Grant corruption. The 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette observed, "The convention received a blow that will, in all
                    probability, utterly and hopelessly paralyze whatever moral effect it might have had."79
            
            Before all this happened, Reid had invited the Quadrilateral to dine with him the night after the
                    nominations were made, but the dinner was a flop. Schurz was "as a death's head at the
                    board." Halstead and Watterson "through sheer bravado, tried to enliven the
                    feast." But it was no use- 
                  
                     73
                            The Life of Cassius Marcellus 
                                    Clay
                                , I, 506.
                  
                     74
                            Ibid., I, 504.
                  
                     75 Logan, Henry Watterson, Border Nationalist, 1840-1877, p. 274 and
                            the references cited therein.
                  
                     76
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Gazette, May 4, 1872.
                  
                     77 Watterson, "The Humor and Tragedy of the Greeley
                            Campaign," Century, LXXXV, 39.
                  
                     78
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Gazette, May 7, 1872.
                  
                     79
                            Ibid., May 4, 1872; White The Life of Lyman Trumbull,
                            385; 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Commercial, May 4, 1872;
                                    
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, May 6,
                            1872.
               
                     they "separated early and sadly, reformers hoist by their own
                        petard."80
            
            It seems odd that Watterson held no resentment against Reid. Later, he wrote that he perceived that
                    Reid was the only one of us that clearly understood the situation and thoroughly knew what he was
                        about.81 The two remained close friends, although Reid had, in a sense,
                    betrayed the Quadrilateral which had only taken him in on Watterson's recommendation. Reid
                    wrote Watterson later, "While you all were taking me into camp, I was comforting myself
                    with the belief that I was taking the Quadrilateral into camp and should find them very useful
                    articles to begin housekeeping with."82
            
            Before leaving 
                        Cincinnati
                    , the Quadrilateral seems to have made an effort to swallow Greeley, bitter medicine
                    though it was, and made an effort to agree on concerted action even though plans were awry. They
                    agreed to "begin such support in a mild form and by degrees grow warmer in the work."
                    Schurz was unable to make up his mind to support Greeley for several weeks, but finally came into
                        line.83
            
            It was now up to Mr. Watterson to decide what to do. A newspaper editor cannot go off to his tent as
                    an ordinary person and sulk until he makes up his mind. He has to decide at once and decide so well
                    that he will not change his mind. Later, Watterson said that he took a day and a night to pull
                    himself together.84 A Republican observer at the time said the Courier-Journal was in a "heavy fog" for several days and took refuge in the Democratic
                    dovecote before coming out for Greeley.85 This fits the case. Watterson had so
                    far committed himself at 
                        Cincinnati
                     that he could not very well back out. His greatest aim, the restoration of the South,
                        
                  
                     80 Watterson, "The Humor and Tragedy of the Greeley
                            Campaign," Century, LXXXV, 39-40.
                  
                     81
                            Ibid., LXXXV, 39.
                  
                     82
                            Ibid., LXXXV, 43-44.
                  
                     83 Cortissoz, The Life of Whitelaw Reid, I, 211;
                            Dispatch from 
                                Lexington
                             in 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Gazette, May 8,
                            1872. Bowles sent the famous admonition to the 
                        Springfield, Massachusetts
                     , Republican, to support Greeley,
                            "but not to gush!" Merriam, The Life and Times of Samuel Bowles,
                            II, 187; White, The Life of Lyman Trumbull, 384, 391-99; Ross, The Liberal Republican Movement, 106.
                  
                     84 Watterson, "The Humor and Tragedy of the Greeley
                            Campaign," Century, LXXXV, 41.
                  
                     85
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Commercial, May 22, 1872; May 4,
                        1872.
               
                     could only be accomplished by Liberal-Democratic coalition
                    against the Radicals.86
            
            Watterson came out definitely announcing his decision to support Greeley in the Courier-Journal of May 6, 1872. His editorial of May 4 left the decision up to the
                    Democratic National Committee but eased his own path of duty by remarking on "feelings of personal
                    kindness, bordering on affection" which he entertained for Mr. Greeley.87 All
                    the 
                        Kentucky
                     papers came out for Greeley except three or four, including the ultra-Southern
                    Democratic 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Ledger.
            
            Some disgruntled elements in the Liberal group had to be mollified in the next few weeks. Watterson
                    spoke of pulling himself together in a hurry in order to "plunge into the swim to help fetch the
                    water-logged factions ashore." Otherwise, he said, the Democrats would never support the
                    Liberals. Schurz was the hardest to deal with. According to Watterson, the Fifth Avenue Hotel
                    conference held by prominent Liberals in 
                        New York
                     in June was gotten up as a kind of bridge for Schurz. It was "to carry him across the
                    stream which flowed between his disappointed hopes and aims and what appeared to him an illogical
                    and repulsive alternative."88
            
            Watterson invited Schurz to breakfast before the conference. He and Horace White also worked at
                    soothing David A. Wells' feelings. Watterson made a speech at the conference in favor of accepting
                        Greeley.89 Schurz was so far won over that he made the closing speech,
                    clinching the acceptance of Greeley.90
            
            Watterson was happy to note that, contrary to the expectations of politicians and reformers, the
                    people rose to the nomination of Greeley. He laid this to "the sentimental, the fantastic and the
                    paradoxical in human nature." In the 
                  
                     86
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Gazette, May 4, 1872; May 22, 1872.
                  
                     87
                            
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , Courier-Journal, May 4, 1872.
                  
                     88 Watterson, "The Humor and Tragedy of the Greeley
                            Campaign," Century, LXXXV, 41. Other commentators indicate that
                            the original purpose of this conference was to persuade Greeley to withdraw and to nominate
                            a new ticket. McCormack, Memoirs of Gustave Koerner, 1809-1896, II, 559.
                            Fuess and Cortissoz agreed with Watterson. Fuess, Carl Schurz, Reformer,
                            196; Cortissoz, The Life of Whitelaw Reid, I, 216.
                  
                     89 Oberholtzer, A History of the 
                                    United States
                                 Since the Civil War, III, 43-44.
                  
                     90 Fuess, Carl Schurz, Reformer, 196; Ross, The Liberal Republican Movement, 121.
               
                     South, "an ebullition of pleased surprise grew into
                    positive enthusiasm." This was connected with Watterson's central theme of
                    reconciliation. "Peace was the need, if not the longing of the Southern heart, and Greeley had been
                    the first hand stretched out to the South from the enemy's camp."91
            
            It was this "spontaneous uprising" which alone induced the Democratic convention at 
                        Baltimore
                     to accept Greeley. It cannot be said that the Quadrilateral had no small part in this
                    fact.
            
               
                  91 Watterson, "The Humor and Tragedy of the Greeley
                        Campaign," Century, LXXXV, 40; Ross, The Liberal
                            Republican Movement, 130-31.
            
         
         
         
            Edward Eggleston: Historian
            James A. Rawley
            What reputation Edward Eggleston enjoys today he owes almost exclusively to his first novel, The Hoosier Schoolmaster. That he was a pioneer in the writing of realistic,
                    regional literature is the single fact seized upon by historians of American culture. That his name
                    occupies a worthy place in the annals of our church history, that he founded the first Christian
                    Endeavor Society in America, that the growth of his mind in some respects may symbolize the growth
                    of the American mind from fundamentalism to free thinking in religion, that his aid in securing the
                    passage of an international copyright law was considerable, and that as a historian he enjoyed a
                    respectable and prominent place in his own day are facts lost sight of at the present time.
            As an exception to this general neglect, one finds this estimate of Eggleston as a historian of
                    interest: 
                        Written at a time when American historians of the new scientific school envisaged history
                            mainly as "past politics," these volumes [Beginners of a Nation and
                                The Transit of Civilization from 
                                    England
                                 to America in the Seventeenth Century] offered a rich synthesis of
                            colonial life in its varied aspects as affected both by its European background and its
                            American environment. Compared with the contemporary historical work of J. B. McMaster, who
                            was animated by a somewhat similar ideal, the material in Eggleston's volumes was
                            more philosophical, less political, better digested and more gracefully written.1
                  
                    
            
            Before examining his historical career, let us trace the earlier facts of Eggleston's life.
                    He was born of Southern parentage, December 10, 1837, in 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana. His formal schooling was interrupted and fragmentary because of chronic
                    illness, but a diligent reading program in a library purchased under the wise direction of his
                    father served to give the boy no mean acquaintance with Virgil, Pope, Homer, Emerson, Theodore
                    Parker, and a score of others. Contrary to the opinion one receives from his novels of rude 
                  
                     1 Arthur M. Schlesinger, "Edward Eggleston," Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences (ed. by Edwin R. A. Seligman, 15
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1930-1935), V (1931), 440; quoted with the permission of the publishers.
                            Similar recognition is found in Dixon R. Fox, "Civilization in Transit,"
                                American Historical Review (
                                New York
                            , 1895-), XXXII (1926-1927), 753-68; and Charles Hirschfield, "Edward
                            Eggleston: Pioneer in Social History," in Eric F. Goldman (ed.), Historiography and Urbanization, Essays in American History in Honor of W. Stull
                            Holt (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1941), 189-210.
               
                     frontier .life, his environment in Indiana was far from an
                    uncultivated one. His father, a lawyer, was an honor graduate of William and Mary, a member of both
                    houses of the Indiana legislature, and a Whig candidate for Congress.2 His
                    mother, Mary Jane Craig, was the daughter of an experimenter in improved agriculture, especially in
                    the breeding of new varieties of fruit trees. One of his teachers, Mrs. Julia Dumont, who had an
                    incalculable influence upon him, employed methods of pedagogy which might well shame progressive
                    educators. She was the author of poems, articles, and at least one book.3 A
                    debating club organized by Edward but discreetly steered by an older cousin, Guilford, was an
                    intellectual force of some moment. Eggleston's father died young, leaving his family an
                    income of $250 a year and directing that his law library be sold to purchase classical
                    books for his children. When he was sixteen, Edward spent a year in 
                        Virginia
                     with his father's relatives, remaining as a guest in each home until he had
                    exhausted its well-stocked plantation library. In this manner he continued his studies in French,
                    Latin, Greek, and mathematics.
            A distaste for the indolence of the life about him and for the institution of slavery sent him back
                    to his family, then at 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana. The cough which was to enfeeble him all his life growing worse, however, he
                    left the broad Ohio River, an avenue of communication and intercourse as well
                    as of commerce, for the yet more uncivilized frontier of 
                        Minnesota
                    . After a period of desultory activities, he returned to Indiana where, at nineteen, he
                    was ordained as a Methodist minister.4 For a few months he rode circuit in the backwoods, but the
                    demands of health soon sent him back to 
                  
                     2 Meredith Nicholson, The Hoosiers (
                                New York
                            , 1900), 135; Ralph L. Rusk, "Edward Eggleston," Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928-1936), VI (1931), 52-54.
                  
                            3 George C. Eggleston, The First of the Hoosiers (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1903), 20, 24, 146-68; Lucille Detraz Skelcher and Jane Lucille Skelcher,
                            "Julia L. Dumont of 
                                Vevay
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905-), XXXIV (1938), 298-306. Mrs. Dumont's book was Life Sketches from Common Paths (
                                New York
                            , 1856). 
                  
                            
                        4 Nicholson, The Hoosiers, 137-43: Effa M. Danner,
                                "Edward Eggleston," Indiana Magazine of History,
                                XXXIII (1937), 435-53. For an account of the 
                                    Minnesota
                                 experiences see John T. Flanagan,
                            "The Hoosier Schoolmaster in 
                                    Minnesota
                                ," 
                           
                                        Minnesota
                                     History (
                           St. Paul,
                                        Minnesota
                        , 1915-), XVIII
                                (1937), 347-70; for the Indiana years, see James A. Rawley, "Some New Light on
                                Edward Eggleston," American Literature (Durham, 
                                    North Carolina
                                , 1929-), XI (1939-1940), 453-58.
                        
               
                     the more favorable climate of 
                        Minnesota
                    . A variety of pulpits increased his experience. As he rode deliberately from one
                    appointment to the next, he managed to do a considerable amount of reading which ripened his
                    understanding. In 1868 he was ready to accept a post as editor of The Little
                    Corporal.
            
            Subsequently he was on the staff of several magazines and served a brief interval as editor of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Independent.
            
            His reputation was still to be made, however, for he had written nothing of note except the popular
                    "Chicken Little" stories for children.5 In the summer of 1871 with his brother,
                    George Cary, he took over the moribund Hearth and Home,
            
            added to its contributors a list of distinguished writers, and composed seriatim, "The
                    Hoosier Schoolmaster." Its success was instantaneous. It was reprinted in a dozen or more
                    papers in the 
                        United States
                    , and the lack of an international copyright law made it available abroad. As Le Maitre d'Ecole de Flat Creek, it appeared in the Revue des Deux
                            Mondes.6
               
            
            Within fifteen years it had sold more than fifty thousand copies.
            This popular success was partly to be explained by a Dickensian humor and pathos but still more by
                    the fact that it was a new departure in American letters. What Ralph Waldo Emerson had, in the year
                    of Eggleston's birth, asked for in "The American Scholar" was at last coming to pass:
                    American writers were turning to American themes and American scenes. Bret Harte had anticipated
                    Eggleston by two years in the use of local color, but the fact that the latter had probably never
                    read Harte, coupled with his avowal of indebtedness to Hippolyte A. Taine's "Art in the
                        Netherlands,"7
            
            makes his experiment appear individual. A second novel soon was published, then a third, and so on.
                    For the most part and for probably his best work, he used the Ohio Valley
                    setting. But in the Mystery of Metropolisville, he drew on his experience in 
                        Minnesota
                     and wove his story upon a background of land speculation and lawlessness. The 
                  
                     5 Nicholson, The Hoosiers, 144.
                  
                     6 George C. Eggleston, Recollections of a Varied
                            Life (
                                New York
                            , 1910), 35-36, 145.
                  
                     7 Nicholson, The Hoosiers, 145; Hippolyte A. Taine,
                                Philosophie de Vart dans les Pays-Bas, Legons professees a l'Ecole des
                                Beaux-Arts (
                                Paris
                            , 1868). This was translated and republished in Lectures on
                            Art by H. Taine, translated by John Durand (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1883), II, 157-356. The second volume had first appeared in the 
                                United States
                             in 1876.
               
                     scene of The Graysons was laid in 
                        Illinois
                     and into it was brought discreetly and without heroics the person of Abraham Lincoln,
                    as he figured in the famous Armstrong trial.8
            
            Having won his laurels in literature, he was not content to rest upon them. Upon his return from
                    Europe in 1880, he informed his brother that he was determined to give the next ten years of his
                    life to writing a History of Life in the 
                            United States
                        .
               9 He missed his prediction, as he was still at work on his
                    project at the end of twenty years. In the two decades he finished but two books of the series and
                    left at his death copious notes taken with such lack of system that no one was able to use them. His
                    research was thorough. Abroad he worked in the British Museum, the Bibliotheque Nationale, and many
                    private libraries. In this country he studied in the Astor and Lenox libraries in 
                        New York
                    , the 
                        Boston
                     Public Library, and the Athenaeum, gained access to many private collections, and was a
                    familiar figure in the Congressional Library in 
                        Washington
                    . Hamlin Garland has given a memorable picture of the graying historian in his leisure
                    hours: 
                        His [Major Powell's] direct antithesis was Edward Eggleston, whose residence was a
                            small brick house just back of the Congressional Library. Eggleston, humorous, ready of
                            speech, was usually surrounded by an attentive circle of delighted listeners and I often
                            drew near to share his monologue. He was a handsome man, tall and shapely with abundant gray
                            hair and a full beard, and was especially learned in American early history. "Edward loves
                            to monologue," his friends smilingly said as if in criticism, but to me his talk
                            was always interesting.10
                  
                    
            
            While working in the British Museum, he discovered an account of Nathaniel Bacon's rebellion
                    written by Bacon himself. This formed the subject of one of his many historical 
                  
                     8 Nicholson, The Hoosiers, 148-52. Some of
                            Eggleston's own accounts of his early life, which is important because he drew upon
                            it to write his novels, are his articles "Formative Influences," Forum (
                                New York
                            , 1886-), X (1891), 279-90; and "Books That Have Helped Me," ibid., Ill (1887), 578-86. See also Harlan de Baun Logan, An Unpublished
                            Journal of Edward Eggleston's with Supplementary Letters (M.A. thesis, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, [1932]).
                  
                     9 Coming as it did shortly after the publication of John R.
                            Green's Short History of the English People, this resolution
                            probably owed something to that influential work, as Professor Allan Nevins pointed out to
                            the writer. It first appeared as a one-volume work (
                                London
                            , 1874) and was then enlarged to four volumes (
                                London
                            , 1877-1880), the word "short" being dropped from the title.
                  
                     10 Hamlin Garland, A Daughter of the Middle Border (
                                New York
                            , 1921), 55-56.
               
                     articles for the Century.
               11 In the writing of history his aim was the same as in writing imaginative literature. He
                    wished to depict the actual life of the people with a realism based upon a fidelity to detail. Life
                    in Indiana had furnished the material for the one sort of writing; life in the libraries of two
                    continents had to furnish the material for the other. A respect for primary sources which almost
                    amounted to awe and an undisciplined intellectual curiosity which led him astray into many
                    interesting but extraneous fields slowed his work. The transition from the art of fiction to the
                    scientific aspects of history was apparently not an easy one for him to make.12
                    During the score of years given over to history, he published, in addition to the two major works, a
                    number of school histories in which his purpose of a realistic brushing away of the cobwebs of
                    sentimentalism and misguided patriotism prevailed. He also delivered lectures at 
                        Columbia
                     College and other institutions. Those given at 
                        Columbia
                     in November and December of 1892 were on the general theme, "The Culture-History of the
                    American People."13
            
            In 1891 he published The Faith Doctor, a novel laid in the 
                        New York
                     scene; and two years later, Duffels, a collection of short
                        stories.14 Throughout this period he was contributing with a frequency
                    amounting almost to regularity to the Century in the halcyon days when its pages
                    were graced by such names as Henry James, Mark Twain, William Dean Howells, Theodore Roosevelt,
                    Eggleston's fellow Hoosier James Whitcomb Riley, and occasionally Matthew Arnold.
            The first work of the series undertaken in 1880 did not appear until 1896. Called The
                        Beginners of a Nation, it brought the story of colonial development down to 1640 with the
                    dispersion of colonies from 
                        Massachusetts
                     Bay and the settlement of 
                        New Haven
                    . Following a dedication to James 
                  
                     11 Edward Eggleston, "Nathaniel Bacon: the Patriot of
                            1676," Century (98 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1881-1930), XVIII (1890), 418-35.
                  
                     12 It is difficult to understand why Michael Kraus claims the contrary
                            in his A History of American History (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 588-89.
                  
                     13 For a list of the titles of these eight lectures, see Fourth Annual Report of President Low to the Trustees (
                                New York
                            , 1893), 42.
                  
                     14 Nicholson, The Hoosiers, 153.
               
                     Bryce, Eggleston indited a preface which merits
                    lengthy-quotation: 
                        It has been my aim to make these pages reflect the character of the age in which the English
                            colonies were begun, and the traits of the colonists, and to bring into relief the social,
                            political, intellectual, and religious forces that promoted emigration. This does not
                            pretend to be the usual account of all the events attending early colonization; it is rather
                            a history in which the succession of cause and effect is the main topic-a history of the
                            dynamics of colony-planting in the first half of the seventeenth century .... I have
                            disregarded that convention which makes it obligatory for a writer of American history to
                            explain that intolerance in the first settlers was not just like other intolerance, and that
                            their cruelty and injustice were justifiable under the circumstances. This walking backward
                            to throw a mantle over the nakedness of ancestors may be admirable as an example of diluvian
                            piety, but it is none the less reprehensible in the writing of history .... Literary
                            considerations should have some weight in deciding how fully an episode shall be treated,
                            unless the historian is content to perform the homely service of purveyor of the crude ore
                            of knowledge. I have sought to make this "a work of art as well as of historical
                            science," to borrow a phrase from Augustin Thierry.15
                  
                    
            
            He began by tracing the search for a westward passage and for gold and by describing the interest
                    aroused by the Indians and the American animals. His purpose was clear: 
                        These erratic notions regarding America give one an insight into the character of the English
                            people at the period of discovery and colony-planting Credulity and the romantic spirit
                            dwell together. The imagination in such an age usurped the place of discrimination, and the
                            wonderful became the probable.16
                  
                    
            
            With such a beginning he moved ahead with his story, but he did not give as complete a picture as one
                    might wish, though he excused himself from that duty. He wrote, however, with an unusualness of
                    detail, a felicity of style, and a clarity of method which call forth admiration. The construction
                    of the book is delightful and helpful; large print and a generous margin at the open side of the
                    page contribute to pleasant reading. The wide margin serves a utilitarian purpose for in it
                    Eggleston has inserted dates, topic 
                  
                     15 Edward Eggleston, The Beginners of a Nation (
                                New York
                            , 1897), vii-ix.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 20.
               
                     headings, and sources. He left more extended footnotes to the
                    end of the chapter in sections called "Elucidations." These bibliographical notes, often
                    running to several pages, attest to unremitting pains for accuracy, revisions of opinion as his
                    research progressed, discoveries of fact, and to an intimate acquaintance with the belles lettres of the age he was studying.
            It may be noted that he displayed a tendency toward generalization. He wrote: "Not religious
                    disputants only, but Jthe world in general, exaggerated the importance of vestments and ceremonies
                    in the reign of Elizabeth."17 Yet if one will examine the sources, he
                    will discover that the historian had the right to generalize for he proceeded from the particular to
                    the whole in approved inductive fashion. This quotation, for example, was based on
                    "Machyn's Diary," "Evelyn's Diary," the "Domestic
                    Correspondence, James I," and "Inedited Tracts, etc., Roxburghe Library." He was
                    also capable of oversimplification: 
                        The petty squabbles of the English exiles [the Protestants who fled from Queen
                            Mary's rule in 1553], transplanted to 
                                England
                            , grew into bitter feuds and brought forth persecutions and political struggles.
                            The settlement of New 
                                England
                            , the battles of Marston Moor and Naseby, the temporary overthrow of the English
                            monarchy, the growth of nonconformity, the modification of the English Constitution and of
                            all English exiles at Zurich and those at 
                                Geneva
                            , and in the squabbles of Cox and 
                                Knox
                            , of Whitehead and Home at 
                                Frankfort
                            -on-the-Main about gowns and litanies and the authority of the priest. It is not
                            often that a great historical movement can be traced through a single rill to its rise at
                            the fountain head.18
                  
                    
            
            But such social history as he wrote is immensely valuable in many ways. To understand, for example,
                    the significance of Nathaniel Hawthorne's "The Maypole of Merry Mount," an account
                    such as Eggleston gives of the 
                        Puritan
                     opposition to Maypoles, is illuminating.19
            
            His diction is felicitous; his style, graceful and compelling. His history is informed with the
                    literary imagination. Speaking of the rise of the Separatists, he said, "In truth, the rise
                    of this sect, from which came the earliest New 
                        England
                     colony, appears to be lost in obscurity. Significant 
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., 98.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., 107.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., 118-21.
               
                     movements are usually cradled in rustic mangers, to which no
                    learned magi think it worth their while to journey."20
            
            Although his interpretations are not always the most acceptable because they sometimes tend to
                    oversimplification, they are usually sound, full of interest, and strikingly presented. 
                        It was the wedding: of an austere creed to an austere soil under an austere sky that gave the
                            people of New 
                                England
                             their marked character, and the severe economic conditions imposed by the soil
                            and climate were even more potent than Puritanism in producing the traits that go to make up
                            the New 
                                England
                             of history.21
                  
                    
            
            His exposition of the forces behind the founding of 
                        Maryland
                     is remarkably tough-minded if one considers his earlier sentimentality in literature,
                    and revolutionary if one considers the indigestible pabulum given in the old school texts. Clearly
                    he showed the elder Calvert to have been narrow and bigoted, cherishing his scheme of a tolerant
                    colony for his own glorification and to secure a haven for his beloved Catholics. That first citadel
                    of religious liberty about which youth are taught in grammar and high schools was a practical
                    expedient forced upon the Calverts to win tolerance for Catholics!
            The other work in his series was more definitely a pioneer work. In its preface he noted, 
                        There were many books on Shakespeare, more or less good when they were not bad, and there was
                            Masson's ponderous Life and Times of John Milton in six octavo volumes. These
                            afforded something, but the civilization of the century was not told in any of them. It
                            became necessary to build a description from the ground .... We must apply to the
                            seventeenth century the severe canons of history; people with ancestors will be
                                disappointed.22
                  
                     This work was written as a series of essays rather than as an integrated narrative of the
                    transplantation of culture. The chapter titles indicate the subjects to be considered: "Mental
                    Outfit of the Early Colonists," "Digression Concerning 
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 146.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., 177-78.
                  
                     22 Edward Eggleston, The Transit of Civilization from 
                                    England
                                 to America in the Seventeenth Century (
                                New York
                            , 1901), vii-viii.
               
                     Medical Notions at the Period of Settlement,"23 "Mother English, Folk-Speech, Folk-Lore and Literature," "Weights
                    and Measures of Conduct," "The Tradition of Education," and "Land and Labor in the
                    Early Colonies."
            The first chapter is masterly. Here he amassed a fund of knowledge showing the scientific notions
                    held by the early colonists: their belief in astrology, in portents, in the spontaneous generation
                    of life, in the winter migration of birds to distant planets, in devils, and in witchcraft. His
                    attitude was critically expository; he did not seek to "debunk." If the work is
                    iconoclastic to some, he did not assume the feigned superiority of the iconoclast. This is
                    straight-forward reporting.
            The chapter on "Mother English, Folk-Lore, and Literature" attests the interests of the man of
                    letters, the student of languages, and the dialect novelist.24 The product of
                    long study, his research into the transit of language to America is replete with interesting
                    illustration. In general he found that "Americanisms," our "rustic words and
                    accents," are English in origin and have undergone environmental change. A people of little
                    education finds a substitute in proverbs and folklore. The nature of these continental and English
                    predecessors was shown by Eggleston. The importance of such attention by a historian was explained:
                    "To call such surviving mediaeval and ancient beliefs quite useless would be rash; they at least
                    supplied material to the imagination and rudely served as substitute for literature."25 Indeed, his treatment of the literature of the common people is abler than that
                        which is usually dignified as early American literature. Adopting an attitude more prevalent in
                        his time than in our own, he wrote, "Nothing that can properly be called American
                        literature was produced in the colonies in the early seventeenth century-nothing worthy of the
                        name in its later time." He dismissed charmingly
                    
                  
                            
                        23 For another article on this subject, see Edward Eggleston,
                            "Some Curious Colonial Remedies," American Historical Review,
                                V(1899-1900), 199-206.
                        
                  
                     24 For other articles by Eggleston on this subject, see "Wild Flowers
                            of English Speech in America," Century, XLVII (1894), 848-56; and
                            "Folk Speech in America," ibid., XLVIII (1894), 867-75.
                  
                     25 Eggleston, The Transit of Civilization from 
                                    England
                                 to America, 118.
               
                     Michael Wigglesworth, author of The Day of
                    Doom, as "the doggerel Dante of pioneer New 
                        England
                    ."26 But the very presence of such a chapter in a work on
                    American history is in itself remarkable; and on the whole the chapter must be reckoned one of the
                    best in the book.
            "The Tradition of Education" glows with the riches of its illustrations. The story is
                    familiar-the beginnings of secular state-supported grammar schools, the establishment of 
                        Harvard
                     College to furnish a learned clergy, the extension of education to combat the rising
                    tide of illiteracy. But such details as illuminate the theme-the 
                        Maryland
                     vestry clerk who wrote that the vestrymen took the oath of abjuration "without
                    equivocation or governmental reservation"; the explanation of the crisscross row on the
                    schoolboy's hornbook; the Englishman Seymour shouting to Blair who was arguing for a 
                        Virginia
                     college to save the colonists' souls, "Damn your souls, make tobacco!" Following this
                    chapter. one might mention, are seventeen pages in small print of bibliographical notes.
            The volume ends with the close of the seventeenth century. On the whole it is more valuable, more
                    usable at the present day, and more adequate within its sphere than the first volume. The initial
                    work is to a greater degree the orthodox story-the colonization. Better syntheses and
                    interpretations have succeeded it. But the story of the transit of civilization is less well
                    studied. What Eggleston included in this work has thus not been outmoded by more recent research.
                    The history of the Carolinas and Pennsylvania was ignored, but this was intentional. He purposed to
                    reserve their short histories in the seventeenth century for fuller treatment in a subsequent study.
            In his review of this work, Professor Charles M. Andrews made some trenchant and severe criticisms.
                    He complained of a lack of thoroughness, of a lack of sympathy with the ideas and opinions of the
                    seventeenth century, and of a neglect of the research done in the field since 1890.27
                    
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 123, 176.
                  
                            27 Charles M. Andrews' review of Eggleston's The
                                Transit of Civilization from 
                                    England
                                 to America... is in the Political Science Quarterly (
                                New York
                            , 1886-), XVII (1902), 162-66. 
               
                     Several points should be made in defense of Eggleston to judge
                    this work fairly. In the first place it should be noted that he was profoundly dissatisfied with the
                    book. In 1899 he suffered a stroke of apoplexy, which blinded him in one eye for a time, and which
                    was followed by a steady decline in health. Fearing death, which came in 1902, he published his book
                    prematurely. Secondly, it should be emphasized that he was a pioneer in history as well as
                    literature. Here was a man writing "the new history," coming after McMaster to be sure, but
                    preceding James Harvey Robinson and his school's emphasis upon that shibboleth. Andrews
                    himself did not publish his Colonial Folkways until 1919, eighteen years later;
                    and this did not confine itself to the small compass of the seventeenth century that Eggleston set
                    for himself but strode hastily over a much larger area.
            The year 1901 marked the publication of this volume and was the apex of Eggleston's career
                    as a historian. In spite of his infirm health, he served as president of the American Historical
                    Association from 1899 to 1900. His presidential address was characteristically entitled "The New
                    History." It was an eloquent plea for "cultural history," which is neither all
                    politics nor all war. "The main object of teaching history," he wrote with an ethical
                    stress which is reminiscent of the minister, "is to make good men and women, cultivated and
                    broad men and women."28 The entire discourse was informed with a
                    catholic outlook and a tolerant understanding. The writer was an apostle of the new order, a pioneer
                    in the literary-scientific school of historiography.
            It was Edward Eggleston's misfortune, when one considers his reputation as a historian, to
                    die before the completion of his projected History of Life in the 
                            United States
                        . The slenderness of his fame may be in part accounted for by the slenderness
                    of his production. Two slight volumes are not sufficient supports for a great reputation. A second
                    circumstance, however, enters in to explain his present position. He was part of a stream of
                    influence, in his time a 
                  
                     28 Eggleston was too ill to attend the meeting; James Ford Rhodes gave
                            an address instead. See Annual Report of the American Historical
                            Association, 1900 (2 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1901), I, xi, 35-47, 51.
               
                     tributary, but soon to become the main current of American
                    historical thought. Greater exponents of the new history succeeded him, towering above them the
                    figure of James Harvey Robinson, so that he was swallowed up in a mighty torrent. The importance of
                    the pioneer has not yet been generally appreciated.
         
         
         
            Collecting Taxes in Indiana Territory, 1797-1802
            George W. Pukcell
            Budgets, bonds, old-age assistance, and the intricate details of the modern business handled by any
                    1944 board of county commissioners in Indiana stand as a mute but glaring commentary of comparison
                    to business transacted in 
                        Vincennes
                     Township, 
                        Knox County
                    , back in the early days of the territorial history of Indiana some 145 years ago. This
                    is evident from the record of "Proceedings at the First Annual Meeting of the Board of Commissioners
                    for the County at the Court House, on the 20th February, 1797." This paper-bound document
                    is inscribed in longhand on durable rag paper, yellowed with age.
            
               
                        Knox County
                     had been organized as a county in 1790, and this document may be about the earliest one
                    extant of the commissioners of that division, which then comprised a territory embracing all of
                    Indiana and 
                        Michigan
                    . The county was divided in 1797 into two townships, 
                        Vincennes
                     and Clarksville. 
                        Vincennes
                     Township was that part of the county from the Ohio River on the
                    south to the northern line, bordered on the west by 
                        St. Clair County
                     and on the east by the Blue River. The seat of the government of 
                        Knox County
                     was 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            Sitting at the "first annual meeting for 1797" were Commissioners Joshua Harbin, Henry Vanderburgh,
                    and William Mcintosh, with George Leech as assessor. At this meeting, the appropriation budget for
                    that year was taken up and adopted as follows: 
                        
                            
                        
                           For repairing Court House and Jail
                           Doll's
                           80
                        
                        
                           For destroying Wolves, Foxes & wild Cats
                           
                           40
                        
                        
                           For the Expense of the Supreme Judges and the Attorney General
                           
                           50
                        
                        
                           For making good deficiencies
                           
                           80
                        
                        
                           
                           Dollars
                           250
                        
                     
                        
                        Issued Precept directed to Frederick Mehl, Constable for the Township of 
                                Vincennes
                            , returnable in six weeks at the House of George Leech, Assessor. Appointed
                            Christopher Wyant Esqr. Collector of Assessments, for the Township of 
                                Vincennes
                            .
                    
            
            The board "appointed the house of Henry Vanderburgh for the next sitting" and adjourned "to sit on
                    Saturday, the 25th  of February, 1797," the eighteenth
                    anniversary of the Clark victory at 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            The chief item of business before the Board of Commissioners for the following year was selecting a
                    person who would accept the job of collector of assessments. This difficulty is in striking contrast
                    to the eagerness of modern candidates to "offer" their services to become their party's
                    nominee for the job.
            It being appeal day when the board convened on the last Thursday in May, 1797, Collector Wyant
                    appeared and declared he "hath not accepted the appointment of collector," and the board
                    ordered "that he be requested to assign his reasons on the 4th day of August next at the House of
                    Henry Vanderburgh Esqr."
            With Commissioners Harbin, 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , and McIntosh in their chairs on August 4, "Christopher Wyant Esqr prayed he
                    might be excused from the duties of Collector, his office of high Sheriff requiring all his
                    time." Thereupon, the board 
                        ordered that Christopher Wyant Esqr. be relieved and that Benjamin Beckes be appointed
                            Collector of Assessments, and that the Duplicate of Assessments be directed to him with the
                            proper directions thereon, endorsed, and that the day of Appeal be the last Tuesday in
                            August, at the Court House.
                    
            
            The vast territory of the township, the sparseness of its inhabitants, and the scarcity of personal
                    property and actual money may have been some of the contributing factors which made the job of
                    collecting taxes a difficult and unattractive one to any individual. Extracting the tax, likewise,
                    was probably left to the ingenuity and persuasive appearance of the collector and his sidearms.
            On August 29, 1797, the record of the board shows it was sitting in an appeal session, a modern board
                    of review: 
                        William Morrison appeals for that he ought not be charged for William Shepherd, a traveller.
                            His assessment per duplicate 1.82  abated for Shepherd 1....
                        Laurent Bazadonne appeals for that he is charged for cattle which he ought not be assessed
                            for 60 cents assessment 5.37  abated 60 cents.
                        John Harbin appeals for that he is charged for cattle not taxable, 57 cents... assessment
                            2.73 ... abated 57.
                        Louis Severs appeals for that he charged for horses and cows not taxable, 22 
                            cents... assessment 97 ... abated 22 .
                        
                        Ordered that the duplicates be rectified by abating 2.39  and that they be
                            prepared for next sitting at the House of Henry VAnderburgh, Esqr. 16th Sept.
                    
            
            At the home of Henry Vanderburgh, the board had its third and final sitting of the year, and
                    "issued duplicate with warrant endorsed thereon, directed to Benjamin Beckes, Collector,
                    amounting to Two Hundred and Fifty Nine Dollars and forty five cents."
            Isaac Westfall took the place of Joshua Harbin at the first meeting for 1798, which was held at the
                    court house on February 3. Leech was again named assessor, as well as clerk. County expenses were
                    mounting terrifically, and the budget appropriation measure showed that for 1798 a 40-per-cent
                    increase of the appropriate total had to be authorized. This was an increase of $100 over
                    the 1797 total of $250, which brough the sum to $350 for 1798. Adopted, it was
                    as follows:
                        
                     
                        For Repairing Court house & prison
                        Dollars
                        80
                     
                     
                        For destroying Wolves, &
                        
                        60
                     
                     
                        For the Expenses of the Supreme Judges and the Attorney General
                        
                        40
                     
                     
                        For making good dificiencies
                        
                        20
                     
                     
                        For Debts owe by the County
                        
                        150
                     
                     
                        
                        Dollars
                        350
                     
                  
                    
            
            While the repair of the court house and jail was kept at the same figure of $80 for the
                    year, the increasing cost of "Wolves, foxes, and wild Cats" jumped from
                    $40 in 1797 to $60 in 1798. These animals brough fifty cents per head with the
                    head as necessary evidence before the claim could be filed. The salary appropriation for the supreme
                    judges and the attorney general was slashed from $50 to $40, and the
                    deficiencies carried over from 1797 went down from $80 in 1796 to $20 in 1798.
                    Another item crept in, however "Debts owe by the County" to
                    the appalling sum of $150; that was the direct cause for the increase in the budget,
                    which the commissioners undoubtedly had to explain to their constituent taxpayers that year.
            Beckes concluded his duties as collector of taxes in 1797; and at the second sitting of the 1798
                    board, Jonathan Conger, a constable of the township, was appointed collector of assessments, and the
                    duplicates were ordered delivered to him.  Whether or not his
                    police powers qualified him as an effective collector to the board is not set down in the record.
            The record of the sitting on June 14 states that Constable Conger "hath accepted appointment and
                    refuses to discharge the duties thereof, whereupon the Board ordered that he be fined the sum of
                    Five Dollars to the use of the county." Henry Pea was thereupon named collector, and the
                    duplicates were shifted to Collector Pea. There were no appeals from the assessment hearing at the
                    July 29 meeting and the duplicates, amounting to $307.38, were closed. Comparison with
                    the appropriations total of $350 adopted earlier in the year indicates that even the
                    tax-levying bodies of over a century ago had their budget-balancing difficulties.
            At the annual meeting of the board, February 25, 1799, Father Jean Rivet appeared as a new member. He
                    was a Catholic missionary who was sent to this western country and who is reputed to have opened the
                    first free school in this vast area. Isaac Westfall was the second member and William Mcintosh, who
                    acted as clerk, the third.
            Difficulties faced the board. Henry Pea had not refused the job of collector but had made absolutely
                    no accounting of the tax moneys charged to him. The board ordered Mcintosh to signify to Collector
                    Pea in writing 
                        that the Treasurer hath complained that he had not paid the sum of money he was charged to
                            collect, and that unless he do forthwith comply with, his duties in that respect, that a
                            warrant shall be issued against him for neglect. Appointed Isaac Decker of White
                                River station to be Collector for the Township of 
                                Vincennes
                             for the present year.
                    
            
            On March 2, 1799, the board met "according to adjournment" at the home of Father Rivet. Faced with
                    the difficulties of not having any tax money in the treasury from the year 1798, its important duty
                    was to adopt an appropriation budget for the year 1799. Repair of the court house and jail dropped
                    from $80 to $15, and the item for the bounty on "Wolves, Foxes and wild Cats"
                    was stricken off entirely. The salary of the Supreme Court judges and the attorney general, reduced
                    the year before to $40, was restored to $50, and the item for county debts was
                    slashed to $80 from $150. This showed a total appropriation  of $145 for the year 1799, as compared to $350
                    for 1798. Exigencies provided the ax.
            Isaac Decker was directed to receive the assessment list for 1799, which amounted to
                    $356.41, but Decker balked at his assignment and was promptly fined $5. The
                    board further added teeth to its order: "that if he refuses to pay the said Five Dollars on
                    demand to be made by the collector to be appointed, that a warrant shall issue as directed by law to
                    compel him."
            Samuel Gregory was elected collector. He refused and was fined $5, and Joseph Baird
                    received a call on June 26. The board received no further consideration from Baird, and they fined
                    him $5 and named Frederick Berger. On July 2 Berger prayed that he be relieved as "he
                    does not read and write the English language sufficiently to perform the duties and also that he has
                    been Constable. Whereupon ordered his resignation be accepted." It was evident that the
                    English language was not a qualification for the office of constable of the township at that time.
            So at the seventh sitting of the board, John Harbin was named, but at the next meeting on July 13,
                    Harbin resigned. Without any 1798 tax money and no collector for 1799, the board was getting
                    desperate. Harbin's fine was therefore doubled to $10 as a warning to others who
                    might be appointed. Patrick Simpson was named. Simpson was late of 
                        Ireland
                     and a man whose fighting qualities went farther than his inhibitive characteristics, as
                    the court record of fines paid for "rioting" revealed, and likely qualified him as an excellent man
                    to collect the taxes. The board, however, was again to be disappointed, and Simpson drew a
                    $10 fine at the ninth sitting on July 15. Three days later Abraham Decker was named, but
                    he, too, 
                        prayed he might be relieved from acting as collector, because he could not write. On the
                            question, whether it should be sufficient cause to save his fine, the board (two sitting)
                            divided in opinion, and referred the matter to be discussed in the present of other
                            Commissioner, and the Assessor at the first meeting.
                    
            
            Philip Catt was named the following day, but he, too, pleaded his inability to read or write. Three
                    days later Joseph Decker was appointed and he also refused. The board was faced with a mutinous
                    situation and decided to double once more the fine, and Decker's fine was boosted to  $20. Thomas 
                        Jordan
                     was then drafted; but at the thirteenth sitting 
                        Jordan
                     declined, was fined $20, and Ephraim 
                        Jordan
                     was named.
            Collection of fines, it would seem, was at least creating a source of revenue to offset the 1798
                    deficit, provided that they could be collected. The fact remained that each succeeding collector was
                    the person who was expected to extract the penalty so that he was faced with the duty of levying on
                    an increasing number of his friends.
            Appeal day, August 3, rolled around; but Collector 
                        Jordan
                     failed to appear with the duplicate so tax abatements could not be made. Three days
                    later 
                        Jordan
                     appeared and said the duplicate had not come to his hand until August 2, and
                    furthermore that "he would not accept the appointment of Collector, his private concerns not
                    permitting him." He, too, was fined $20. Father Rivet stepped out from the board
                    at this session, and General 
                        Washington
                     Johnston) took his place and was named clerk.
            On August 28 the first action of the new board was to name Noah Purcell collector, and on September
                    10, "appeal day," he refused the appointment. Once more the board decided to
                    increase the "ante" and Purcell was given a fine of $30. General Johnston was making his
                    presence felt, and this session also took note that Pea, collector for 1798, had still failed to
                    turn over the tax collections, so a warrant was ordered requiring 
                        the Sheriff to take the body and seize and secure the estate real and personal belonging to
                            Henry Pea, the said Collector, and make return thereof on the 25th instant, at the House of
                            G. W. Johnston, Commsr.
                     John Barker, constable of Clarksville Township, was given the warrant of arrest, returnable
                    in six weeks to Leech, assessor.
            The eighteenth century went out without a tax collector, and for two years the county was without its
                    tax income. On January 18, 1800, John Ochiltree was named collector for the year 1799. One week
                    later the board met again and Ochiltree resigned; the board, however, was of the opinion "that said
                    collector do continue the collection." At this same meeting the sheriff returned the
                    precept against Pea, and with the sheriff was the former collector himself. He desired a continuance
                    of his case until January 28. The following day Pea appeared and asked for a general meeting  of the board to be held February 4 open to the public. At this
                    meeting Pea showed that he had collected a part of the sum with which he was charged but that there
                    was still $85,581/2 outstanding. The board ordered a writ of execution to the sheriff to
                    sell "so much of the property of the said Pea as shall be sufficient to pay the sum of
                    $85.581/2." The board also ordered Pea to act as collector of the balance of the
                    1798 taxes, and pay into the treasury any sums he might procure.
            On February 15, 1800, Abraham Decker came before the board and showed that his resignation of July
                    18, 1799, had not yet been adjudicated and asked for a general meeting of the board which the public
                    could attend. It was declared an open meeting forthwith, and Decker was fined $10. Philip
                    Catt, Decker's successor who had likewise refused, was given a similar fine.
            On July 19, the record reveals that Wyant, sheriff, reported to the board that Pea had made another
                    partial payment of his delinquencies in the sum of $46.50 and the sheriff was ordered to
                    receipt Pea therefor, leaving the balance of $39.0814 outstanding. 
                        Henry Pea as a delinquent Collector for the year 1799, was on the 4th instant fined by the
                            Board the sum of Eighty Five Dollars, fifty eight and % cents, being the amount of his
                            delinquencies. And was ordered also to collect the balance of the said duplicate, being
                            $85.58% of the Persons assessed therein, and pay the same into the County
                            Treasury. On a mature consideration by the Board, it is Ordered, that upon the said
                            Pea's paying to the Clerk of the Board the Ball. of his Deficiency being
                            $39.08% that he be fully discharged from his collectorship. It appearing to them
                            that it was owing merely to his neglect and negligence in collecting the amount of the
                            duplicate, and not his conversion of the Taxes to his own use, which prevented him from
                            paying over to the Treasurer agreeable to law.
                    
            
            At the same session of the board, Mr. Ochiltree, then collector, called the board's
                    attention to the fact 
                        that those persons who were fined by the Commissioners, for not discharging the duties of
                            their appointments as Collectors for 1799, refused to pay their several fines. Ordered that
                            the Clerk do issue a warrant against these persons so severally fined, for their said fines,
                            agreeable to law, directed to the Sheriff of 
                                Knox
                             returnable to the Clerk of the Board at his home in 
                                Vincennes
                            , returnable thirty days from this day.
                    
            
            The board sat as a Board of Review on February 16  and abated
                    $7.613/4 and adjourned to meet at the house of Francis Vigo in 
                        Vincennes
                    , "used as a Court House by the County this year." The duplicate,
                    properly amended, was ordered to be delivered to Collector Ochiltree. For further precaution the
                    board ordered 
                        the Clerk to acquaint the Treasurer in writing, that Mr. John Ochiltree is charged with the
                            Collection of the Duplicate of Assessments for the year 1799 last past, amounting to the sum
                            of $339.261/2.
                     On April 21, the board ordered the clerk to re-date the warrants issued against the
                    resigning collectors of 1799 and make them returnable in thirty days and to deliver them to Sheriff
                    Ochiltree, also collector for that year.
            In the case of Henry Pea, the record states that the board ordered the clerk to 
                        call upon Christopher Wyant, Esqr, late Sheriff of 
                                Knox
                            , by letter for a return of the execution in his hands issued by the Board
                            against Henry Pea, a delinquent Collector of taxes for the year 1798, on the third day of
                            May ensuing at the house of General W. Johnston, Commsr, or that the rigour of the law will
                            immediately after, be enforced against him for a Non Return.
                     On July 12, at the next meeting, the board found 
                        The Execution against Henry Pea, the delinquent Collector for 1798, having been endorsed and
                            delivered to the Sheriff of 
                                Knox
                            , agreeable to the order of the 25th February ultimo, whereon the sd Sheriff
                            returned "not time to execute". It is ordered that the Clerk do renew the said Exec, against
                            the goods &, of the said Henry Pea as a delinquent Collector for 98, for the sum of
                            39 Dollars 8 & % cents, being the ballance remaining unpaid on his said
                        delinquency.
                    
            
            Sheriff Ochiltree also reported to the board that he had turned over to the clerk the executions of
                    attachment issued against the resigning collectors of 1799. After due deliberation, however, the
                    board ordered "that the issuing of the execution for the sale of the several properties taken by
                    virtue thereof, be postponed until a farther consideration thereof." If there was a
                    "farther consideration" of the board, the record does not reveal it. The final record in the case of
                    Pea's delinquency, however, shows 
                        Remitted to James Johnson of 
                                Knox County
                            , the sum of Forty Six Dollars and forty six cents being the amount of monies
                            heretofore made by the Shff of this county on the Commsr Exec. agt. Henry Pea, a Delinquent
                            Collector for 1798. July 22nd 1800.
                    
            
            
            There is every indication that the law governing the creation of a board of commissioners for the
                    territory underwent a change, for a new record was started on November 18, 1800, of the "Proceedings
                    of the Commissioners of Taxes, in and for the County of 
                        Knox
                    ." The new record shows 
                        Jeremiah Claypoole & Gel. W. Johnston, two of the Commissioners appointed by the
                            Court of Quarter Sessions of sd County, at their November Term Inst, proceeded, and took the
                            Oath of Office prescribed by Law, before Jonathan Purcell, Esquire.
                    
            
            The only business of the new board was to consider a bill for services filed by the former Sheriff
                    Wyant for $129.25, through his attorney Henry Hurst. The board found it was sufficiently
                    authenticated and ordered that the "applicant do receipt the same, and thereon the same is done
                    accordingly, and the account, allowance &, is filed in this office for perpetuity."
            The board met at the home of General Johnston in 
                        Vincennes
                    , on Saturday, January 3, 1801, and 
                        George Leech having been called upon by the board of Commsrs, in order to attend this day, he
                            having previously, that is to say, this morning, taken the Oath of Office, prescribed by
                            law, then present, Gen'l W. Johnston & George Leech. Ordered that the board be
                            adjourned until the press of business shall require an other meeting.
                     On February 9 the "press" was recognized, as the board found, "conceiving it
                    indispensibly necessary that a meeting of the Board should be called for the exigencies of the
                    County," and General Johnston, who was named clerk, was ordered to apply to the Court of
                    Quarter Sessions for a copy of the law "regulating the County Rates and Levies, and Lodge the same
                    in his office for this and the Commissioners Information."
            On February 21, the board issued precepts ordering Samuel Carruthers, Thomas 
                        Jordan
                    , and Frederick Berger, constables of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Harrison, and Palmyra townships, respectively, to deliver within six weeks lists in
                    writing of all taxable property in their townships. The board did not meet until July 6 and at that
                    time fixed July 11 as the appeal day for the tax assessments filed by the constables. This meeting
                    was a significant one, also, for General Johnston was appointed "as Secretary of this Board invested
                    with all the powers and authorities invested in a Secretary  of
                    any Board of Commissioners of Taxes by a Law of the Territory." His salary was fixed at
                    $70 per year, including his salary as commissioner, the same to date from February 7.
            Reviewing the fiscal status of the county, the board adopted its appropriation budget ordinance for
                    the year 1801 as follows: 
                        
                            
                        
                           For Raising the County Levy and making good deficiencies for 1801
                           250.00
                        
                        
                           Repairs, Rent & for Court House & Jail
                           60...
                        
                        
                           Destroying Wolves &
                           25...
                        
                        
                           Debts due by the County
                           740.19
                        
                        
                           
                           Dols
                           1075.19
                        
                        
                           By amount in the Treasury per Treasurer's Books
                           78.131/2
                        
                        
                           Ball. Dols
                           997.051/2
                        
                     
                        
                    
            
            Upon examination of this, the board decided that 
                        the Commissioners are of the opinion, that the present year's tax must be streached
                            to the extent of the law in this case made and provided... and do order their Secretary to
                            make out Duplicates of Taxation accordingly, and have the same ready at the next meeting of
                            the Commissioners for their Inspection.
                    
            
            On August 3 the duplicates were presented and spread before the Court of Quarter Sessions, which
                    approved them. The same old question of who would be the collector of the taxes came up, and the
                    record states 
                        no person offering as a Collector of Taxes, the Commissioners conceived by means reasonable
                            orders that the Secretary do advertise publically that seperate proposals will be received
                            at this office between this date and the fifteenth inst. for the collection of taxes.
                    
            
            Whether or not Isaac White bid for the job the record fails to say, but on August 15 White was
                    appointed and presented his bond before Commissioners Leech, Claypoole, and Johnston, with the first
                    two as his sureties. No appeal day having been had on the assessment, the board set September 11 for
                    such a hearing because of "erroneous returns of people and property made by the
                    Constables," and the record indicates the following "amendments and deductions" were
                    allowed as "delinquencies" in the settlement of White's accounts to the commissioners.
            
            
                    
                        
                     
                        Thomas Coulter, mistake in addition
                        .121/2.
                     
                     
                        Michel Theriacque,
                        wrong return of
                        3 cattle
                        371/2
                     
                     
                        Joseph Dubois
                        ditto
                        2 ditto
                        .25
                     
                     
                        George Catt
                        ditto
                        2 Horses
                        1.00
                     
                     
                        Pierre Cabacier
                        ditto
                        Single Man
                        2.00
                     
                     
                        Pierre Grimere
                        ditto
                        ditto
                        2.00
                     
                     
                        William Stewart
                        ditto
                        1 Stud Horse
                        5.00
                     
                  
                    
                
            The final meeting of the board in 1801 was held November 7, and at this meeting the commissioners
                    authorized the payment of $10 to Benjamin Parke for prosecuting the pleas of the 
                        United States
                     at the May term, and to Henry Hurst the sum of $10 for his prosecution of
                    the pleas of the 
                        United States
                     at each term hereafter.
            The first meeting in 1802 was held at the home of Mr. Ochiltree, and it was ah auspicious meeting.
                    White asked for an audit of his tax payments, and the board found he had paid on September 5,
                    $240.77:1/4; on November 9, $308.08; on December 3, $20; and on
                    January 23, $4.87l/2 a total of $573.723/4. Allowances were made to White,
                    consisting of overcharges and deductions amounting to $38.50. He was given a salary of
                    $75 for collecting the tax, and the balance showed the County of 
                        Knox
                    , Territory of Indiana, owing the collector the sum of 22%, cents, whereupon the board
                        
                        ordered that the Secretary of this Board, do make out a fair copy of the above account, and
                            certify the same under his hand and seal and deliver the same to the said Isaac White, with
                            the thanks of this Board for his promptness and fedelity in his Collections, and that this
                            Board do not adjourn.
                    
            
            The board having named eighteen men in four years to the position of tax collector of 
                        Knox County
                     before obtaining any income from that source, what a climax to end this record!
         
         
         
            WILLIAM HENRY SMITH MEMORIAL LIBRARY OF THE INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY
            CAROLINE DUNN
            Valuable material was again secured by the library at the sale of the second half of the James
                    McHenry Papers the last of October. An account of the acquisition of the first half of the documents
                    appeared in the September issue of the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            An Indian attack and threat of others near 
                        Vincennes
                     are reported in a transcript of an extract from a letter of Dr. John F. Carmichael, U.
                    S. surgeon's mate, June 22, 1789.
            A number of interesting transcripts deal with War Department matters in the spring of 1791. Most of
                    these reports were sent to President George Washington and included is a transcript of his letter
                    approving them to Secretary of War Henry 
                        Knox
                    . 
                        Knox
                     reported to the President in March, 1791, upon "operations to be adopted for the
                    ensuing year upon the frontier," and discussed in detail the protection of frontier
                    settlements, expeditions against Indian towns on the 
                        Wabash
                    , relations with the Indians, and problems of the region now 
                  Kentucky, Ohio
               , and Indiana.
            Instructions were sent Governor William Blount of the Tlerritory Southwest of the River 
                        Ohio
                    , August 27, 1790, on treating with the Cherokee Indians. The lieutenants of the
                    frontier counties of 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Were authorized to call militia into defense service as needed. Orders were given
                    Brigadier General Charles Scott on March 9, 1791, for an expedition against the Kickapoo and other 
                        Wabash
                     Indians and to Colonel John Proctor on March 11, 1791, for a mission of peace to the
                    Miami and 
                        Wabash
                     Indians. Apparently, the policy was to effect peace with the Indians of the upper 
                        Wabash
                     region and make war upon those of the middle 
                        Wabash
                    . These instructions and four letters to Indian chiefs from General Arthur St. Clair or
                    Secretary 
                        Knox
                     and lengthy instructions sent St. Clair by 
                        Knox
                     on March 21, 1791, which give the policies and plans of the federal government for
                    dealing with the Indians of the Northwest and the contemplated campaign St. Clair was to command
                    against them, are printed in the American State Papers : Indian Affairs.
            
            
            A letterpress copy of "Instructions to Major General 
                        Wayne
                     for holding a treaty with the North Western Indians and form of the treaty" goes into
                    great detail in setting forth what should be included in the treaty made with the Indians at
                    Greenville in 1795.
            A number of the documents deal with troubled conditions in the Mississippi
                    Valley in 1796, where intrigue with Spanish and French agents worried the officials of
                    the young republic. General James Wilkinson of the 
                        United States
                     Army; Victor Collot, a French officer; Count Volney, a French traveller; Thomas Powers,
                    agent of the Spanish governor, Gayoso; and Judge Benjamin Sebastian are among those mentioned in
                    reports sent in by Captain Zebulon Pike (father of Pike's Peak Zebulon), who was in command
                    at Fort Massac; Captain Thomas Pasteur, commandant at Fort 
                        Knox
                     (
                        Vincennes
                    ) ; Elisha Winters of 
                        Kentucky
                    ; Caleb Swan of the 
                        United States
                     Army; Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    , commander of the western army; and Captain Thomas Lewis, his aide.
            A letter of Colonel John F. Hamtramck sent from Fort 
                        Wayne
                     in 1798 accompanies his lengthy notes on regulations for the conduct of the army
                    proposed by the War Department and sent him for his consideration. A second letter from Hamtramck,
                    written the following year, speaks of his difficulties in planning the fortifications at Fort 
                        Wayne
                     in accordance with regulations, as the place was too small for the scales used.
            The library also acquired some drawings at this sale. A pencil sketch map of the country in western 
                        Ohio
                     from Fort Jefferson to the site of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     and to the mouth of the Glaize River has this note: "This sketch differs from
                    those of the C. in C, it is nevertheless very near the truth. Tf W." (This may be J. W.,
                    but it is not in Wilkinson's writing.) It is a map made in approximately 1792 and shows
                    Fort Jefferson, Greenville, Fort Recovery, streams, roads cut by the army, Indian paths and
                    villages, and Harmar's route.
            A pen and ink plan for a battle which shows deployed formation of various battalions has been
                    identified as an arrangement of troops by General St. Clair when he was attacked and defeated by the
                    Indians November 4, 1791, near the present site of Fort Recovery, 
                        Ohio
                    .
            
            A notation on two sketches states they were enclosed in a letter of General Wilkinson, November 6,
                    1792. Wilkinson was then in charge of the army in the Northwest and reported an attack of Indians
                    earlier in the day on a group of militia camped outside Fort St. Clair near the present Eaton, 
                        Ohio
                    . One sketch shows Fort St. Clair and its surroundings at the time of this attack. An
                    outline of the fort, the course of a neighboring creek, the militia camp, pack horses and attacking
                    savages are indicated.
            The other sketch is labeled "South perspective of Fort Jefferson" and, although marked on the back
                    "Fort St. Clair," is more likely a drawing of the former. It shows an arrangement of
                    blockhouses and stockades quite unlike the usual rectangular form. Two blockhouses, a bullock pen,
                    two gardens, a forage magazine, and a larger unidentified building with cupola are strung out along
                    what appears to be the edge of a bluff with stockades of varying heights to protect the south
                    approach. Fort Jefferson is about six miles south of Greenville; it was built in the fall of 1791 by
                    St. Clair and was used in succeeding years as one of the protecting chain of forts and as a supply
                    depot.
         
         
         
            Documents
            MRS. LYDIA B. BACON'S JOURNAL, 1811-18121
            
            Edited by Mary M. Crawford
            Practically all of the contemporary accounts of travel between the eastern seaboard and the West in
                    the early nineteenth century were written by men. For this reason, it is interesting to find letters
                    and a journal written by a woman at that time. The author, Mrs. Lydia Bacon, accompanied her
                    husband, Lieutenant Josiah Bacon, a quartermaster of the Fourth Regiment of the 
                        United States
                     Infantry, from Fort Independence on Castle Island in 
                        Boston
                     Harbor to 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana Territory, and back to 
                        Massachusetts
                     by way of 
                        Detroit
                    .2 On their way to 
                        Vincennes
                    , the couple stopped at 
                        Philadelphia
                     and 
                  Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
               , and at 
                  Newport, Kentucky
               . They
                    spent the winter of 1811-1812 at 
                        Vincennes
                    , where Mrs. Bacon waited for her husband while he took part in the campaign led by
                    Governor William Henry Harrison against hostile Indians along the 
                        Wabash
                    . This campaign ended with the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , November 7, 1811. Following that engagement, Lieutenant and Mrs. Bacon set out on
                    horseback with the troops for 
                        Detroit
                     by way of 
                        Kentucky
                    . As they neared 
                        Detroit
                    , Mrs. Bacon was sent on by boat with the sick and wounded soldiers and other wives who
                    accompanied the troops. On the way they were captured, but the ladies were released and sent to 
                        Detroit
                    . When General William Hull surrendered, they were again taken prisoners by the British.
                    After the surrender of the post, Lieutenant Bacon and his wife were taken as prisoners on a British
                    ship to Erie. After a journey of thirty-six miles in a carriage provided for General Hull by British
                    officers, Lieutenant Bacon was paroled at 
                        Newark
                    , a village in 
                        Canada
                     directly opposite Fort Niagara.3 He was excused from proceeding to Quebec with the
                    other men in his regiment 
                  
                     1 Permission to publish Mrs. Bacon's journal was granted by
                            the 
                                New York
                             Historical Society, which owns the manuscript, and the Pilgrim Press, the
                            present representative of the 
                                Massachusetts
                             Sabbath School Society, which published the journal in The
                                Biography of Mrs. Lydia B. Bacon (
                                Boston
                            , 1856).
                  
                     2 Mrs. Lydia Bacon was born in 
                                Boston
                             on May 13, 1786. She was the oldest child of Levi and Mary Stetson.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Newark
                             was once the capital of Upper 
                                Canada
                            . It has also been known as Loyal Village, Butlersbury, Nassau, and
                            Niagara-on-the-Lake. Archer 
                                Butler
                             Hulbert, The Niagara River
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1908), 227-30.
               
                     because he was accompanied by his wife. Shortly after he was
                    released, he left 
                        Newark
                     with Mrs. Bacon for their home in 
                        Massachusetts
                    .
            During her journey to 
                        Vincennes
                     and while she waited for her husband when he was in active combat, Mrs. Bacon wrote
                    frequently to her mother and fifteen-year-old sister Abby, who had remained in 
                        Massachusetts
                    . Homesickness and a consciousness of the sharp contrast between the patterns of living
                    of the people among whom she was traveling and that which prevailed in New 
                        England
                     made her eager to share her experiences with her relatives at home. This purpose and
                    the fact that she saw what was taking place around her through the eyes of a woman caused Mrs. Bacon
                    to include many details that would probably have been either overlooked by a man or considered too
                    trivial to mention.4
            
            About twenty years after her return to the East, Mrs. Bacon arranged the letters and entries in the
                    journal which she kept on her trip to 
                        Vincennes
                     in chronological order and copied them in the manuscript, published below, which is now
                    owned by the 
                        New York
                     Historical Society. In 1856, this journal was published in 
                        Boston
                     by the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Sabbath School Society (the Pilgrim Press) in a book entitled The
                        Biography of Lydia B. Bacon. As it appeared in that book, the journal was extensively
                    edited, some portions were omitted or summarized, the spelling and punctuation improved, and parts
                    of it entirely rewritten. These changes, the failure to locate a copy of the book, The
                        Biography of Mrs. Lydia B. Bacon, in the state and the interest of the contents of Mrs.
                    Bacon's journal seemed to warrent publishing the copy of the original manuscript which
                    follows.
            Persons interested in Indiana history will find interesting references to 
                        Vevay
                     and its early settlers, to the Falls of the 
                  
                     4 Following their return to 
                                Massachusetts
                            , Mr. and Mrs. Bacon stayed in 
                                Boston
                             for three years. At the end of that time, they settled at Sackett's
                            Harbor, 
                                New York
                            , where Mr. Bacon entered business as a commission merchant. In 1829, after his
                            business at Sackett's Harbor failed and he had suffered serious financial losses,
                            Mr. Bacon took his wife to Sandwich, 
                                Massachusetts
                            . There, he held several responsible civil offices and was sent as a
                            representative to the state legislature at 
                                Boston
                            . In the early spring of 1841, Mr. Bacon was appointed steward of the 
                                United States
                             Marine Hospital at Chelsea by President Harrison, under whom he had served
                            along the 
                                Wabash
                             in 1811. He held this position until his death in 1852. After her
                            husband's death, Mrs. Bacon continued to live in Chelsea. She died in Brookline in
                            1853, while visiting at the home of her brother-in-law, Joseph Bacon.
               
                    
                    
                        Ohio
                    , to the Prophet and his followers, to the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Campaign and. the Indian council which followed at 
                        Vincennes
                    , and to the earthquake of 1812. The journey to 
                        Detroit
                     and the events connected with the surrender of the outpost are included in the second
                    half of the journal, which will probably appear in the next issue of this Magazine.
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Mrs. Lydia Bacons journal, while traveling with her Husband, when he was engaged, in
                                    the service of his Country, as Leiut. & Quarter Master, of the 4 Regiment, 
                                        United States
                                     Intry. Written at the oft repeated request of her Nephew James J.
                                        Jarves.5
                        
                        My Dear James, Your Uncle B. having a Military taste, saw fit to enter the Armey,
                                    about the commencement of the last War, & he obtain'd a commission, in the
                                    4. U.S. Re. Intry, then commanded by Col John P Boyd, &
                                    after being station'd, at Fort Independence for a season, the Regiment was ordered
                                    to Pittsburg. Accordingly, on the 9th of May, 1811, we embarked on board Vessels,
                                    provided by Government, for the Transportation, of the Troops & prooeded to 
                                        Philadelphia
                                    -from thence we were to cross the Alleghany Mountains to Pittsburg.
                        May 9th 1811.
                        Having obtain'd Mothers Consent, that Sister Abby should accompany us as far as
                                    Phil,ia, we proceded to the Fort in the Barge, which had been sent, to convey us to
                                    the Vessel, which was there waiting for the Troops to embark. We arrived safe on
                                    board, about 8 oclock A.M., & commenced our Voyage, with a fair Wind
                                    & fine weather, the second day I was very sea Sick, but Sister Abby proved
                                    an excellent Sailor, not being affected, at all, by the motion of the Vessel, the 3d
                                    day we arrived at Marthas Vineyard, where we were detained several days by head
                                    winds, which was not unpleasant to us, as we had acquaintances, with whom we passed
                                    our time agreably.
                        May 16 continued our Voyage which was pleasant, altho my former companion
                                    [seasickness] returned, the moment we left the Land, & remained with me till
                                    we saw it again, which was several days. I kept on deck, as much as possible,
                                    thinking it the best medicene, for Sea Sickness, going up 
                                        Delaware
                                     Bay had a Thunder Gust, 
                              
                                 5 James Jackson Jarves was born August 20, 1820, about
                                            eight years after Mrs. Bacon returned from 
                                                Vincennes
                                            . He was the son of Mrs. Bacon's sister, Anna Smith
                                            Stetson Jarves, and Deming Jarves, a glassmaker at Sandwich, 
                                                Massachusetts
                                            . During his early twenties, Jarves went to the Hawaiian Islands
                                            where he founded and published the Polynesian, a weekly
                                            newspaper that was made the official state paper of the Hawaiian government.
                                            Two years after his return to the 
                                                United States
                                            , in 1849, Jarves went to Europe and after several months
                                            settled in Florence where he collected art treasures which he later brought
                                            to the 
                                                United States
                                             and placed in museums. From 1879 to 1882 he served as
                                            vice-consul and consul for the 
                                                United States
                                             at Florence. He died June 28, 1888, at Tarasp, 
                                                Switzerland
                                            , and was buried in the English Cemetery at 
                                                Rome
                                            . Theodore Sizer, "James Jackson Jarves," Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                                                New York
                                            , 1928-1936), IX (1932), 618-20.
                           
                                     violent but of short duration, sickness
                                    confined me to the Berth but Abby enjoyed the sublimity of the scene very much,
                                    being the first Storm she had ever witnessed on the Water, & did not leave
                                    the deck till the Capt thought it imprudent for her to expose herself any longer.
                        (I ought to have mentioned that Uncle B. went by land having business to transact ere
                                    the Troops arrived) When we entered Delaware River, I was
                                    releived of the Sea Sickness & enjoyed the scenery very much, beautiful
                                    Farms, on each side of the river delighted our eyes, with the plenty, &
                                    comfort, which they exhibited. The contrast was great with that we had left, for at
                                    that early season in New 
                                        England
                                    , vegetation, had just made its appearance, & here all the first
                                    fruits were rapidly advancing to Maturity, & when we went ashore at the
                                    Lazaretto, where we were to stop a short time, & which is a few miles from
                                    the City, we thought it enchantment, every thing looked so luxuriant, we amused
                                    ourselves with examining, all that was curious, among which were some old trees that
                                    had been wounded in the revolutionary War, & some of the
                                    shot remained beded in their trunks. At this place we found other companies of
                                    Troops, who had been ordered to meet us there, belonging to the same Regiment,
                                    & who had been stationed at New 
                                        London
                                    , & Portsmouth, or at 
                                        New Castle
                                    , below Portsmouth. The Capt of the Company from 
                                        New Castle
                                    , was accompanied by his Wife, a lovely woman, with whom I formed a
                                    Friendship, which solaced, many an hour, while our Dear Husbands were on duty,
                                    seperated from us, & which continued while life remain'd. She died some
                                    years since, preceded by her beloved Husband, only a very short time.
                        The first night we stoped at the Lazaretto, it not being convenient to go to the
                                    City, to see our Friends, as we had anticipated, & being crowded with the
                                    additional Troops we were obliged to put up with any accommodations we could get,
                                    & for the first time in our lives, Abby & myself reposed or rather
                                    tried to repose on the floor of Doctor Heilimans Parlor with a Blanket &
                                    pillow, this felt rather hard to those who had been accustomed always to a soft bed,
                                    but I was young then &, blest with a share of health,
                                    spirits, & enthusiasm which made me surmount many difficulties. The next
                                    morning we went to the beautiful City Phillm which I had long wish'd to behold,
                                    & was received by our Dear Cousin Penroses, with all that cordialaty which
                                    we desired & expected, they did all they could to make our time pass
                                    pleasantly, & profitably, the time flew very swiftly, & the Period,
                                    too soon arrived, when we must be seperated, from our Dear Sister, & Cousin.
                                    The remembrance of those days, will ever be retain'd by me, they were among the few,
                                    White days, which fall to the Lot of man. I never saw these dear Cousins again for
                                    they paid the debt of nature a few years after, Uncle B saw them once or twice after
                                    we were there together. Among many things worthy of observation was the Penia
                                    Hospital founded by William Penn. Cousin William was one of the managers, &
                                    going with him we had a fine Opportunity, to examine every thing in & about
                                    the establishment, as I have keep no account of it, except in my mind, I shall not
                                    attempt to describe it, as no doubt you will ere long have the pleasure of vewing
                                    this noble  edifice yourself. I
                                        recollect, the beauty, Order, neatness & convenience, of the
                                    establishment, filled me with wonder, & with pleasure.
                        From this Period I shall give you extracts from letters written at the time,
                                    & which your Dear Grand Mother has preserved, & from a journal keep
                                    some part of the time. & while reading you must keep in mind, Dear James,
                                    that these events, transpired, more than twenty years since.
                        
                        June 1st 1811.
                        The Troops took up the line of March from Philia. Mrs. P. [Mrs.] MG. &
                                    Myselfe went in the Stage, under the care of a Nephew of the Cols, who was
                                    travelling with us for his health, the weather was serene, the roads good, all
                                    nature appeared in its richest dress. the Land from Philm to Chambersburg, which is
                                    at the foot of the Alleghany Mountains, is rich & highly cultivated, large
                                    farms with Barns of spacious dimensions built of stone, meet the eye in all
                                    directions, & what particularly attracted our attention was the Hogs up to
                                    their backs feeding in rich clover, & the Dutch Girls working in the fields
                                    performing the labour of Men. The Hogs appear'd the most favour'd. I had often heard
                                    the remarks of Pigs in Clover, & here I saw it, realized.
                        Pittsburg June 26 We arrived here 10 days since after a tedious yet delightful
                                    journey, tedious in consequence of the extreme roughness of the road, but rendered
                                    delightful by the beauty of the surrounding landscap. On every side was exhibited,
                                    to our admiring eyes, a constant succession, of scenery, at once grand,
                                        sublime, awful & sweet. A variety of emotions, fill my mind, at the
                                    survey of God works, everything is calculated, for our instruction, comfort,
                                    & pleasure, & while we contemplate the wonderful variety, of naturs
                                    works, our dependence on the Author, is more firmly fixed in our hearts, could we be
                                    sensible of our obligation to him, & of his goodness to us, we should not
                                    let a murmuring thought arise, but be wholy resigned, to his will, &
                                    pleasure, what ever that should be.
                        The Stages were very bad, obliged to walk the horses up the Mountains several miles
                                    together, & sometimes for a change we would all get out, & walk
                                    ourselves, at one time the seats were taken out, plenty of straw put in the Dottom
                                    of the Stage, & the Passingers stowed in, like baggage. This did very well
                                    for a little while, but to those who wish'd to view, the landscape, as we passed
                                    along, it soon became wearisome, & we concluded we should rather endure the
                                    pounding than be deprived of this pleasure, just imagine, to yourselfe, Lydia,
                                    seated on one side of stage, for the benefit of the view, holding on with both
                                    hands, exerting every nerve to maintain my Equilibrium, on one side of me, my
                                    neighbours elbow pushing in to my side, on the other, the side of the stage which
                                    was not stuffed, rubing against me, till I was black & blue, & then
                                    bounce would go my poor head, against the top of the Stage, till my brains were
                                    ready to fly. but all this, I could bear, for the sake of beholding, the scenery. at
                                    a distance the Mountains would tower to the clouds, on our side & within a
                                    foot or two of the Carraige wheels, an awful precipice, at  whose base a beautiful river, glided along, unmindfull
                                    alike of the danger, or admiration, of. the beholder, after a little, we would ride
                                    through this stream, or cross a rude Bridge thrown over it, then again we would see
                                    it at a distance, we were obliged to lock the wheels decending the Mountains,
                                    & when we came to a very narrow place, the driver would sound a tin horn to
                                    warn any who might be approaching to stop in a safe place till we passed. It is 160
                                    miles across these Mountains the way we went, which took us several days to
                                    accomplish, there are some pretty & thrifty Villages among the Mountains, we
                                    stoped at several, but the one which attracted my attention most, was called 
                                        Bedford
                                     we lodged there the second night, it was situated in a beautiful Valley
                                    watered by a very lovely stream called the Junitta [Juniata], it reminded me of
                                    Johnsons Eassellas [Rasselas], who was born & educated, in a similar valley,
                                    surrounded so entirely by mountains, that he lived, to the age, of man, ere he
                                    learnt, there was any other world, beside the spot he inhabited, & then
                                    prompted by curiosity he climbed, one of the mountains, when lo,
                                    another world, burst upon his view, which he explored, but return'd, (if I recollt
                                    fight) not much delighted, with his discovery.
                        Pittsburg is a pleasant Village surrounded by Mountains. On one side, the Monongahala
                                    [Monongahela] river, laves its banks, on the other the pure Waters of the Alleghany
                                    unite & mingle with the Majestic & beautiful 
                                        
                                            Ohio
                                        
                                     This Village is famed for its manufactories, the people appear very
                                    industrious & engrossed with the all important business of accumulating
                                    wealth, coal is used here which gives the Village a very dirty appearance, &
                                    the Children appear neglected, we visited Grants Hill a place, rendered conspicious,
                                    and not so much from the loftiness of its summit as from having been the scene of
                                    Battle between the enemy & our people in the old War. we have visited, a
                                    number of Factorys, & a large flour Mill, which are worth seeing, saw them
                                    blow Glass at the Factory, also saw some cut glass, the first I ever saw
                                    manufactured in our own country. The first steam boat, ever built on these Western
                                    Waters, is now on the stocks, & will soon be launched, if it were ready now,
                                    we might have the pleasure of going in her. had a terrible thunder gust to day the
                                    thunder was tremendous, accompanied with vivid lightining, & rain, which
                                    drenched the street like a flood, the Thunder is always more violent among the
                                    mountains than in a level country, the heat is oppressive but does not make me sick,
                                    all kinds of provision is cheap & of a good quality.
                        The Military Quarters are small & do not accommodate all our Regiment, the
                                    Col with his staf reside at the quarters, while the rest of us board out, or live in
                                    hired houses, Leiut G & wife with Husband & myselfe & some
                                    of our Brother Officers have hired a new Brick building in market Street &
                                    have one table, Josiah provids & I see that it is cook'd & served up
                                    in proper order, which is not much trouble as we have plenty of servents &
                                    those that are pretty good. The Military Quarters here resemble an elegant country
                                    Seat, they were built by General Wilkinson who no doubt you have heard of, in the
                                    rear of the house, which is commodious & elegant, is a large Garden,
                                    arranged with much taste, all kinds of Fruit trees, shrubbery, & flowers,
                                         regale the eye, & please the
                                    palate, while the odours which is emitted from the whole, leave nothing wanting
                                    which a person of tast could desire. A Canal runs thro the grounds, over which is a
                                    Chinese bridge, with seats round, & about it. the Col has tea parties
                                    frequently, & entertains his company, in the Garden while the Band plays at
                                    a distance hid from our view. I was highly entertain'd, the other day at one of
                                    these Parties. I was siting on the bridge, under the shade of some beautiful trees,
                                    conversing with some of the companey, when casting my eye into a walk at a little
                                    distance, I saw our gallant Col on his knee presenting a glove to a beautiful
                                    damsel, which she had let fall (perhaps on purpose) you recollect he is 50, she I
                                    presume was 16. the inhabitants treat us with every attention, our next door
                                    neighbours are Irish, we find them all we could wish, they are extremly kind
                                    & attentive, they have a family of little Children one of whom is quit a pet
                                    with Josiah. Mr. Richardson has a great desire that Josiah should leave the Army
                                    & settle here.
                        July 27 Since writting the above, we have received Orders to go to
                                            
                              Newport, Kentucky
                           , on the 
                                        Ohio
                                     river, its 500, miles from this place. We go in keel boats covered like
                                    Houses, & stope at night if we like, the river is narrow, in most places you
                                    can call across & be heard quit plain. We are told it is very pleasant going
                                    down the River, but we should prefer stoping here, for the present, we are much
                                    pleased with the people, & have just got comfortably fixed, but go we must,
                                    the Evenings here are delightful, after the excessive heat of the day. soon as the
                                    Sun retires, you see the inhabitants in the Streets, siting at their doors or
                                    walking with heads uncovered, that they may enjoy the soft breezes of twilight,
                                    sometimes Our Band of Music will play a part of the Eve, they take a Boat &
                                    go up the rivers each side the Village, the Music has a fine effect among the
                                    Mountains, some beautiful Ec/ios. The whole together reminds me of something I have
                                    read but never expected to realize.
                        The cause of our proceding is this, the Indians are committing depradations upon the
                                    White inhabitants who are located on our Frontiers, & the Govener of Indiana
                                    has requested some regular Troops to keep them quiet.
                        August 2d 1811. 10. A.M.
                        Embarked on board the Boats. The fleet (if I may so term it) consisted of 11 Boats.
                                    Our family are Mr & Mrs A. Mr G & wife. Capt S. Husband &
                                    selfe, & two little Brothers of Mrs A We went 40 miles to day. Stoped at
                                    Custard Island, the ground not being good we sleep in the Boats, Cut a curious
                                    figure I assure you, we were obliged to put our beds on the floor of the Cabin,
                                    & we females slept together, while our Husbands spread Blanketts on the
                                    seats on the sides of the Cabin which answer'd for Sophas & chairs,
                                    & thus enjoyed a comfortable repose, after the novelty of the scenic,
                                    situations, & circumstances, allowed us composure, to court the drowsey God.
                        Mrs P & her Husband are in another boat they have a small Cabin to
                                    themselves. We are as comfortable as if in a House, it is a very pleasant way of
                                    travelling we have our meals as regular as if in a Hotel.
                        
                        We have just passed a small Villiage on the Banks of the river. it is very pretty,
                                    this is a beautiful River but extremely crooked, in some of the bend it appears as
                                    if we were enclosed in a Pond, & I can not help the association in my mind
                                    of the Indians with their Tomahawks, & scalping knives, peeping at us, from
                                    behind the bushes, & yet Admiration & astonishment seize the mind on
                                    beholding the wonderful works of an Almighty hand.
                        We were awake at day light by the revualle. left Custard Island at 5 oclock AM.
                                    passed the Towns of Stubenville & 
                                        Charlestown
                                    , both are handsome, fair weather, & a fine breeze on the water.
                                    8 oclock, PM. Stoped at the foot of a beautiful bank on which are several Log
                                    Houses, with large famlies of Children happy as they need be, it is a lovely Eve the
                                    Moon is as bright as day, tents are pitched on the side of the river, &
                                    fires made for the Soldiers to prepare their suppers, plenty of business going
                                    on-Mrs A is making up her Husbands bed, & reprimanding Mrs G. who being a
                                    little offended will not do the same for hers. I wish you could take a peep at us.
                        August 4th we were aroused this morning by the Drums beating the tune which
                                    accompanies these words, "Dont your hear your General say strike your Tents
                                    & march away." Our Pilot has a Bugle Horn on which he plays some
                                    good tunes, which echo & reecho among the Hills & sound more
                                    delightful than you can possibly imagine. One Infant has died to day-happy Child,
                                    taken from this scene of sin & sorrow-
                        Our boat is 70 feet long, 12 wide, 7 high & without Sails, it is propeled by
                                    22 oars, the top is boarded & shingled like a House, the sides are tow cloth
                                    which we can put up & down at our pleasure, the river is perfectfully
                                    smooth, & we are going with the Stream, of course we pass
                                    along very rapidly.
                        1 oclock PM. Obliged to stop, Squal coming on, it-looks rather gloomy. It is past,
                                    and no damage done. We are under way again. 7. PM. It has been delightful weather
                                    since the shower. I wish you was with us, I can not express my feelings better than
                                    in these lines I have just been reading. "On such a blessed night as this I often
                                    think, if Friends were near, How we should feel, & gaze, with bliss, upon
                                    the moon bright scenery here." There are many small Islands in this River
                                    which adds much to its beauty.
                        5th August Stoped at Marietta, it lies on the 
                                        Ohio
                                     & Muskimgum, the Inhabitants are principally New Englanders,
                                    whose employment was building Vessels, which they found very lucrative but the
                                    embargo put a stop to this business, & injured the place in walking about
                                    the Town which I did this morning accompanied by my Husband, we struck with the
                                    stillness that prevail'd, it is now so thinly inhabited that the clover is quit high
                                    in some of the principal Streets, indeed in some of them, there is hardly a foot
                                    path, it reminded us of Goldsmiths deserted Villiage. It is well laid out &
                                    beautifully situated, I walk'd till fatigue compelled me to return to the Boat, then
                                    Josiah with some Brother Officers, went to examine some Indian Mounds, which were at
                                    a little distance.
                        
                        We are passing some beautiful places, to look at which, I must put away my writing.
                        The weather is unpleasant & the rain prevents my going ashore on
                                    Blannerhassetts Island, which I regret excedingly, for it must be worth examining,
                                    if the description, which I will give in an extract, taken from the Western Tour if
                                    it be correct.
                        On ascending the bank, from the landing, a quarter of a mile, below the eastern end,
                                    we entered a handsome double Gate, with hewn Stone Piliaster. A gravel walk lead us
                                    about 150 paces to the House, With a Meadow on the left a Shrubbery on the right,
                                    seperated by a low hedge of Privy Sally, thro which, innumerable Columbins,
                                    & various, other hardy flowers were displaying, themselves, to the Sun. The
                                    House is handsome & large, the Shrubbury, well stocked with flowering
                                    Shrubs, & all the variety of evergreens, natural to this Climate, as well as
                                    several exotics, surround the Garden, & has gravel walks, Labyrinth fashion,
                                    winding through it. the Garden is not large, but seems to have had, every delicacy,
                                    of fruit, vegetables, & flowers, which this fine Climate, &
                                    luxurious soil produces, in short Blannerhassetts Island, is a most charming
                                    retreat, for any man of fortune fond of retirement, & it is a situation
                                    perhaps not exceeded for beauty in the world, it wants however, the variety of
                                    Mountains-precipice-Cataract-distant prospect, & ccc [sic]
                                    which constitute, the grand, & sublime.6 This description was given several
                                    years ago. Since then Blannerhassett was concerned with Burr, in his attempt to
                                    sever the Union, and was obliged to abscond from this charming retreat, at present
                                    its inhabitants are a few Slaves who raise hemp, the entrance is choked with bushes
                                    & the whole has a romantic appearance.
                        The farther we procede down the river, the Country grows more cultivated, &
                                    more level, we have almost lost sight of the Mountains.
                        August 6th 6. AM. Last night the boats were locked together, the current drifted us
                                    40 miles, dark drizly night, but the Col, being anxious, to reach 
                                        Newport
                                    , thought it best to continue on through the night. Went over Letarts
                                    falls, which I did not see, for Morphus had taken posession of me. us females
                                    suffered no inconvenience from this arrangement but our Husbands were obliged to
                                    take their watch on deck & got wet to their skins, We are this moment
                                    opposite to a log House situated in a corn feild, the corn is rather higher than the
                                    House. A dozn Children are playing about the yard.
                        Aug.st 7 A M7 Drifted last night. Stoped this morning a halfe
                                    hour, found a 
                                        Boston
                                     man settled on the Banks of the 
                                        Ohio
                                    , his name is Gardener 
                              
                                 6 Mrs. Bacon's statement that she is
                                            including an "extract" from Western Travel is the only
                                            indication she gives that the preceding part of this paragraph is a direct
                                            quotation from that book.
                              
                                            
                                    7
                                                Biography of Mrs. Lydia B. Bacon (
                                                    Boston
                                                , 1856), 19, gives the following paragraph in this form:
                                            
                                    "August 7th. We drifted much
                                                last night, and this morning stopped half an hour and landed at a
                                                thrifty farm. Here we found a son of old Justice G-, of 
                                                    Boston
                                                . In early life he married a
                                        
                           
                                     dener (a Son of old Justice Gardener of 
                                        Boston
                                    ) he married a young Lady in Saint Domingo, & was residing there
                                    when the Slaves rebelled & massacred a great part of the White Population,
                                    Mr G with his Wife & her Mother, escaped & came to this country,
                                    & has lived here 12 years, We took him & two interesting Children
                                        in our boat 30 miles to a School where he left the Children we
                                    found him an intelligent pleasant Man.
                        Last Night lashed the boats, two together, & drifted all night, two boats run
                                    ashore, in consequence of the fog, A Soldier sleeping on deck fell over &
                                    was drowned, poor fellow summon'd, in an unexpected moment, into an unknown world he
                                    had a thick watch Coat & a blanket round him which weighed him down. Our
                                    boat got on to what they call a Sawyer which are trees blown down, the freshets take
                                    them into the river, they catch in the bottom of the river, & when the Water
                                    is low, (which is generally the case, at this season of the Year) they are very
                                    dangerous, the tops are just above the waters, & if the Boat is not very
                                    strong, these Sawyers split holes in the bottom, & they sink, the jar and
                                    noise awoke, us out of a sound sleep, & alarmed us considerably, you may
                                    well imagine, but a kind providence preserved us from danger & damage.
                        Aug.si 8 PM. Stoped this Eve at a beautiful place, took a walk on the bank, &
                                    went into a House to purchase butter, & on enquiring of the Lady if she had
                                    any to spare, she very carlessly observed, that they had been making soap that day
                                    & not having quit grease enough, had made up the deficiency, by putting in
                                    Butter, fine Country thought I where people take butter for soap grease, we are in
                                    the habit of buying Eggs butter &ccc as we go along, we get them cheap
                                    & good.
                        9th Augst A M. Arrived at 
                                        Newport
                                    , found decent qua[r]ters in a beautiful place, this is a Military
                                    depot. 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     lies directly opposite, it is a flourishing town, I intend going to see
                                    it today the view of it from this side reminds me of 
                                        Boston
                                     more than any place I have seen yet. 30 years ago it was almost a
                                    wilderness, but you will the more readily account for its rapid growth, when I tell
                                    you the settlers are principally Yankeys.
                        Thus, you see Mr Dear Mother, & Sisters, I have endeavoured, to give you an
                                    account, such as it is, of our proceedings thus far, & if it contributes to
                                    your ammusment I shall be amply repaid. Altho I wish much to see you yet as my
                                    Husband was obliged to come, I never have for a moment regretted accompanying him,
                                    It is a great 
                              young lady in St. Domingo, and they were happily residing on that island
                                            when an insurrection among the blacks obliged him to flee with his wife and
                                            mother. They succeeded in reaching this country with a remnant of their
                                            property, and settled upon the 
                                                Ohio
                                            . Here they have remained twelve years; they work hard but sleep sound. Their greatest trouble is
                                            the want of educational privileges for their children, who are very
                                            intelligent and promising. Having heard of a good school about twenty miles
                                            from their location, (this was the nearest within their reach,) the father
                                            with two of his children accompanied us in our boat. We found him a very
                                            intelligent and agreeable companion."
                           
                                     source of happiness that we can be together,
                                    & I have the satisfaction of knowing I am performing my duty.
                        At 
                                        Newport
                                     we became acquainted with a very interesting family by the name of
                                    Taylor, who treated us with great hospitality, often sending us the most delicious
                                    fruit, they owned a beautiful plantation a little distance from the Military
                                    Quarters on the bank of the river, very pleasant is the recollection of the hours
                                    passed in their society, when in the brilliant twilight, we seated ourselves on the
                                    Piazza, which overlooked, the lovely Lawn, in front of the House, that spread its
                                    verdant Carpet, to the edge of the river, while the trees loaded with fruit, not
                                    only delighted the eye but refreshed the Palate.8
                        
                        
                           
                              Newport, Kentucky
                            August 11th 18119
                        
                        In my last I mentioned our being ordered here. We arrived the 9th, & are now
                                    waiting further Orders, which I hope will be to stay here or return to Pittsburg, we
                                    hope for the best, & expect the worst, Our journey so far has been very
                                    pleasant, do not Dear Mother make yourself uneasy on our account, the place is
                                    healty & we are well, the season is delightful, all kinds of fruit in
                                    abundance & very cheap, This is the Country for poor people, there are a
                                    great many Yankeys here. I think of you & my Sisters often & with
                                    the thought the wish arises, that I may behold you once more, but I dare not flatter
                                    myselfe
                        September 2d 1811 Well My Dear Mother here we are again on the 
                                        Ohio
                                    , speeding our way, further & further, from the place of our
                                    Nativity, we have much to engage our time & attention, but amid all the
                                    variety & bustle incident, to our present situation, my thoughts dwell much,
                                    with you, & I trust time nor place will ever diminish, the affection I have
                                    for you. I have no Lady Companion, with me* in the Boat this
                                    time, Our family consists of Ct S Husband. & myselfe. Our Cabin is quit
                                    large, we are very well accommodated, we stope every night, & those who
                                    chose sleep in Tents on shore. The lowness of the Water renders it dangerous to
                                    procede in the night.
                        
                           
                                        
                                 8
                                 Biography of Mrs. Lydia B. Bacon,
                                            21-22, gives this paragraph as follows:
                                        "At 
                                                Newport
                                            , Capt. and Mrs. Bacon formed the acquaintance of a family by
                                            the name of Taylor. The gentleman was a brother of General Taylor,
                                            afterwards President of the 
                                                United States
                                            . He owned a beautiful plantation a short distance from the
                                            military quarters, upon the bank of the river, and treated Mr. and Mrs. B.
                                            with the utmost attention and hospitality. He often sent them delicious
                                            fruit, aud [sic] frequently invited them to his house.
                                            Years afterward, Mrs. Bacon writes, 'Very pleasant is the recollection of
                                            the hours passed in their society. Sweet was our social converse when seated
                                            in the calm twilight, on the front piazza, overlooking the splendid lawn
                                            which spread its green carpet to the edge of the river. The; fruit trees on
                                            either side of the mansion were loaded with their rich treasures which not
                                            only delighted the eye but regaled the palate.'"
                                    
                           
                              9 In Mrs. Bacon's manuscript, the following
                                        letter was copied after the entry in her journal for July 29. To avoid confusion
                                        for the reader, it has been omitted from its original position and given here
                                        instead.
                        
                        
                        
                           Septb 3
                        Last Might Our Boats were anchored under a very high bank whose Summit presented
                                    nothing very inviting, so much so, that we hardly thought of taking the trouble to
                                    ascend it, but our minds were soon changed by the report of some whose curiosity had
                                    led them to reconnoiter a little distance, they returned with some beautiful straw
                                    Hats, which they purchased of a Swiss family, whom they found settled a short
                                    distance from the River, About 30 families had taken up their residence here, being
                                    driven from their own country by the troubles in 
                                        France
                                     they fled to our peaceful shores, & purchasing some land of
                                    Government have planted Vineyards, the produce of which, enables them to realize
                                    what they had fondly anticipated in an exchange of Countries, their Wine made from
                                    the Maderia & Clarret Grapes is excellent. We purchased some. This place is
                                    called Veva, it is in New Swiss.10
                        
                        We went into one of the Vineyards, it was a delightful sight, the House appertaining
                                    to this Vineyard, was sweetly situated, the yard fronting the House was laid out
                                    with taste, we approached the House through rows of Grape vines, supported, by poles
                                    about 5 or 6 feet high loaded with ripe grapes. While the peach and nectrine trees
                                    swept the ground with their branches notwithstanding many had been proped up to
                                    prevent their breaking so loaded were they with the most delicious fruit, the family
                                    were dressed in their best, it being the Sabbath, a number of fine healthy Children
                                    ornamented, the yard, the Grass had been newly mown, & perfumed the air with
                                    its fragrance, It was twilight, & one of the most brilliant, I ever beheld,
                                    we tarried till the full Orbed Moon, arising in Mild Majesty, reminded us it was
                                    time to depart, which we did with much reluctance, & like Our Mother Eve, on
                                    leaving Eden, we cast a long a lingering look behind. I had often read of such
                                    places, & thought they existed only in the Authors brain, but my eyes have
                                    been gratified with a sight, equal to anything I ever read.
                        Septb 4 Read by L.A. B in 1841 Arrived at 
                                        Jeffersonville
                                     this morning at 9 oclock, the boats are preparing to go through the
                                    rapids, the water is very low which makes it necessary to take all the Bagage out
                                    & send it by land, the distance is Three miles &
                                    takes 13 Minutes to go by Water. Leiut. Gs boat
                                    has gone safe with his Wife, & Mr and Mrs A. We could go by land, as Josiah
                                    has charge of all the Bagage, but we had a desire to go the same way as the rest, of
                                    the Officers & their wives, each Boat obliged to have two Pilots one at the
                                    bowes and the other at the stern.
                        4.th PM. we are safe through the rapids, it is frightful indeeed it seemed like being
                                    at sea, in a storm, surrounded by breakers, the Clouds heavy, the wind high,
                                    threatening a thunderstorm which actually took place just as we got in to port, No
                                    person in our Boat but Capt P & Lady & ourselves. The Soldiers went
                                    by land, we stood, while passing this tremendous place with our eyes stretched to
                                    their utmost width, & hardly daring to fetch a long breath, expecting 
                              
                                 10 This was the settlement now known as 
                                                Vevay
                                            , Indiana.
                           
                                     every moment when we should dash against a
                                    rock. We wished to see the whole, in perfection & we did.
                                    We have laid below the falls these two days, & have been highly entertain'd
                                    viewing the Petrifactions which are abundant, & extremely curious, we took
                                    some peices with us in, hopes you might have the pleasure, of seing them, some
                                    future day, I often wish I could transport you here to behold with me the wonderful
                                    works of Nature.
                        We are fast approaching the lowland from Pittsburg so far, there has been a constant
                                    succession, of Hills & dales, in a few hours more a vast extent of level
                                    country will open to our view-We have come to the lowlands, the contrast is great,
                                    now not a Hill or mountain meets the eye.
                        This is a pleasant way for traveling, every thing goes on as regular is [as] if at
                                    housekeeping, We had to dismiss 
                                        Brown
                                     for misconduct, & in his place, have got an excellent waiter,
                                    who cooks well & washes admirably. We drink the river water it is very good,
                                    but I have some qualms when I see the dirt that is thrown in to it. I have
                                    endeavoured to give you some idea of the Boats we are in, in a rude sketch I have
                                    drawn in this letter, No doubt, you will laugh, at the elegance of the drawing,
                                    & I don't think you can very well help it.
                        Mrs Weir, one of the Soldiers wives, had a daughter last night, it was born in a tent, on the Banks of the 
                              
                                            Wabash
                                        .
                           11
                        
                        We have left the 
                                        Ohio
                                     & are assending the 
                                        Wabash
                                    , It is very difficult to assend these rivers, the current is against us
                                    & is very strong, We make as much progress with the current in our favour,
                                    in two days, as we do against it in twelve, & what makes it more difficult
                                    the river 
                                        Wabash
                                    , is full of snags, sawyers & Sandbars. The
                                    night air is very damp & if exposed to it we are in danger of fever Ague.
                        
                        October 1st, 1811 We have arrived at 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , Indiana Tery all are engaged in preparation for a Campaign against the
                                    Indians. Our health is very good at present but we have been quit sick, I with the
                                    dreadful fever-Ague, & Josiah has been burnt with powder, which might have
                                    destroyed his life, but a kind providence, preserved him, he was priming his gun for
                                    the purpose of shooting some wild fowl which are plenty on the river, the flint of
                                    the gun being rather long-the powder in the pan took fire from the flint coming in
                                    contact by shutting & the Flask which held a half pound & which was
                                    nearly full, exploded, & the contents went immediatly into his face, he
                                    shrieked & putting his hands to his face took the skin entirely off, his eye
                                    brows & lashes burnt close & he could not see for a fortnight,
                                    & we sometimes fear'd he never would see again but a simple curd made of new
                                    milk & Vinegar cured his eyes, the application to his face was oil &
                                    brandy 
                              
                                            
                                    11
                                                Biography of Mrs. Lydia B. Bacon, 25, gives the
                                                following paragraph in this form:
                                            "Last night we had a recruit added to our number, in
                                                the shape of a bit of female mortality born in a tent on the banks of
                                                the 
                                                    Wabash
                                                , which river we are now ascending."
                                            In the original manuscript at this point appears a rude sketch of the
                                                boat. It is omitted here.
                                        
                           
                                     alternatly, which healed it very rapidly. I
                                    took cold, viewing the Comet, which has just made its appearance, We were two
                                    pitiable objects I assure you, neither able to wait on the other & both
                                    needing assistance, When we arrived at Vinncennes both of us had to be led to the
                                    house, as for myselfe I was hardly able to step, from debility &
                        poor Josiah could not see at all, & no carraige could be procured, the night
                                    was dark, the weather very unpleasant, amid all these difficulties we reached our
                                    lodgings, which for the present we engaged, in the only Tavern the Villiage could
                                    furnish, it is keept by a Mr Jones12 & proves to be a
                                    very good House, at present we are rather crowded but shall be better accommodated
                                    when the other Officers are gone, there are a number from 
                                        Ohio
                                     & Kentuckey who put up here We share our sleeping appartment
                                    which is a large Hall, with the family-I find this fever Ague, a tedious painful
                                    desease, have lost flesh, they gave me some medicene to vomit me, mixed in a pint
                                    bowl, I put it by my bed side, & did not find it necessary to tast it, for
                                    the sight & smell had the desired effect, Governer Harrison called on me
                                    today, equiped for the March, he had on what they call a hunting Shirt, made of
                                    calico & trimed with fringe & the fashion of it resembled a woman
                                    Short gown, only the ends were pointed instead of square & tied in a hard
                                    knot to keep it snug around him, on his head he wore a round beaver hat ornamented
                                    with a large Ostrich feather, he is very tall & slender with sallow
                                    complexion, & dark eyes, his manners are pleasing, he has an interesting
                                    family,
                        October 5th The Troops have left 
                                        Vincennes
                                    . It was a sad sight to see them depart, a great many fine young men, a
                                    number of Volunteers from 
                                        Ohio
                                     & Kentuckey, some very young, left their studies at Colledge,
                                    to go on this Campaign, my Husbands sight continuing weak it was not thought prudent
                                    or proper for him to go with the troops, the charge of Fort 
                                        Knox
                                     is assigned him with the care of the Invalied Soldiers.13
                        
                        8 October, What a changing scene is my life at present, here we are at Fort 
                                        Knox
                                    , a stockade or military depot on the 
                                        Wabash
                                    , not a female to associate with, no companion but my Husband, I walk
                                    sometimes outside the Picketts, but altho a Soldiers wife dare not venture far, for
                                    I do not like the thought of being scalped by our red Brethern, I read write
                                    & think of you my Dear Mother & Sisters, Josiahs eyes are getting
                                    strong fast, & he is determin'd to 
                              
                                 12 Peter Jones, the owner of the Tavern, was a member
                                            of the House of Eepresentatives of Indiana Territory and at one time acted
                                            as judge of common pleas and quarter sessions at 
                                                Vincennes
                                            . His shop at the ferry was patronized by the gentry. John B.
                                            Dillon, A History of Indiana (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1859), 448; Logan Esarey (ed.), Messages and
                                                Letters of William Henry Harrison (2 vols., Indiana
                                                Historical Collections, VII and IX, 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1922), I, 256.
                              
                                 13 On September 26, 1811, Governor William Henry
                                            Harrison, accompanied by members of the Militia of Indiana Territory, troops
                                            and officers of the 4th U.S. Regiment of Infantry, and volunteers from 
                                                Ohio
                                             and 
                                                Kentucky
                                            , left 
                                                Vincennes
                                             to scatter the hostile Indians who gathered at a village known
                                            as the Prophet's Town located on the Wabash
                                            River near the mouth of the Tippecanoe
                                            River.
                           
                                     join the Troops, as soon as the Physician will
                                    permit him, he has written the Col requesting Mm, to order him to join his regiment.
                                    Josiah has received orders to join the Regiment very much to his satisfaction, tho
                                    not to mine, we have been here just a week, what a charming variety, now must Pack
                                    up our goods, & go back to 
                                        Vincennes
                                    ,
                        
                           
                                        Vincennes
                                    , October 10. My Husband is gone & I am boarding with Mrs Jones,
                                    here I have a very pleasant companion, an Officers wife by the name of Whitlock, she
                                    is extremely kind to me, we chum together for the sake of
                                        company.14 I have had a return of feverAgue & she
                                    has waited on me like a Sister.
                        The Troops are 80 miles from here, building a Fort, the Indians as yet, have not
                                    manifested any hostility towards our Troops, but they are deceitful in the extreme,
                                    the British furnish them with Arms, ammunition & rations.15
                        
                        Col Miller has been very ill, but is better, was obliged to lie in a tent on the
                                    ground, I assure you they see service now, if they never did before, I want very
                                    much to ask them how they like their new situation.
                        We have had no cold weather till within a few days, have not set by a fire for the
                                    last six months. I expect we shall stay here all Winter, which will be very
                                    disagreable to me, for I do not like the place or people much-Dear New 
                                        England
                                     I love the better then ever, 0 that I may be so happy, as to visit thy
                                    blessed land once more, for blessed it is, endeed. The land in this Western Country
                                    needs but little labour compared with ours, & the produce does not command
                                    so good a price. This place was first settled by the French, one hundred years ago,
                                    but from the appearance of it, & its original inhabitants,
                                    they never had much interprise or industry, they are Roman Catholic in their
                                    religion, but in their habits & appearance not much superior to the Indians,
                                    the local situation of the place is very pleasant, lying on a clean stream of Water
                                    which affords them a variety of fish & facilitates their intercourse with
                                    the Neighbouring States & Territories. it is perfectly level, with the
                                    exception of three Mounds, situated in the back of the Villiage, supposed to be
                                    raised by the Indians some Centuries ago, they are quit Ornamental, the Center one
                                    is the highest & easy of access, having a smooth foot path at the Back of
                                    it. 1 rode to the tope on horse back, doubtless future generations may see this a
                                    flourishing place, there are some American families here, emigrants, chiefly from
                                    Kentuckey, & 
                                        Virginia
                                    , slavery is tolerated here.
                        Adieu My Abby! nev'r forget, that far beyond the Western Sea, is one, whose heart
                                    remembers thee.
                        
                           
                              14 This was probably the wife of Lieutenant Ambrose
                                        Whitlock, Virginian and an old acquaintance of Governor Harrison. In 1811,
                                        Governor Harrisson recommended that Lieutenant Whitlock be placed in command of
                                        Fort 
                                            Knox
                                        . Esarey, Messages and Letters of William Henry
                                            Harrison, I, 341, 355.
                           
                              15 This fort was called Fort Harrison. It was built on the
                                        east bank of the Wabash River at a point about two miles
                                        above the old Wea village where the city of 
                                            Terre Haute
                                         now stands. Dillon, A History of Indiana,
                                    461.
                        
                        
                        I am anxiously expecting news, from, My Dear Josiah, may he be protected from danger.
                        November 30th 1811 Still new mercies, call for our loudest, songs, of praise
                                    & gratitude, to him, who is our constant Benefactor & presever. My
                                    Husband has returned in safty after being exposed in the most horrid of all Battles,
                                    an Indian one, Oh my Mother, could I describe my feelings I would, but words cannot
                                    do it. I hope this great mercy may be a means, of raising my thoughts to God, who
                                    has watched over us ever since we have had a being, is it not strange that Beings so
                                    dependent should have so little Idea of their own weakness. We live, constantly
                                    recipients of the divine bounty, but it makes often no impression on our hard
                                    unfeeling hearts, could we be made sensible of our own frailty & the
                                    immutability of him, who died for our redemption, we should be happy here &
                                    hereafter.
                        I do not regret that Josiah was in this Battle, for I trust the kindness of God in
                                    thus sparing his life, has left impressions on his mind, that will not readily be
                                    effaced, His duty as Quarter Master is particularly ardious on a March, of course he
                                    was not attached to any company, but equally exposed to danger with those who were.
                                    While bridling his Horse a Ball hit his hoof & his own boot & at
                                    another time his hat, the Army was encamped in a Hollow Square on a rising piece of
                                    ground the tents all facing out-ward beyond which a guard was placed. The Indians
                                    attacked them a little before day which is their usual method. The Regular Troops
                                    not being accustomed to Indians & being assured by Govr. H. that there was
                                    no danger, had retired to, rest but not without some suspicions of the hostile
                                    intentions of the Enemy & taking the precaution to lay down already to
                                    start, with their Weapons of War by their side. their slumbers not very sound you
                                    may well suppose. The Indians do not fire regularly like well traind troops, the
                                    first gun was heard, & the regulars at their Post in a moment, the enemy,
                                    had their faces painted black, as is their custome, this our troops could only see
                                    by the light caused by the flashing of the guns, & this added to the
                                    tremendous war hoop with the groans of the wounded rendered the scene terrific
                                    endeed. our troops answered the war-Hoop with 3 cheers, the Battle lasted till day
                                    light, when the Indians were compeled to retire with great loss.16 Leiut Peters relates an affecting circumstance. Among the Malitia from
                                    Kentuckey was a Capt 
                                        Spencer
                                     who had been in 12 Indian Campaigns, he had a Son 12 years old which he
                                    had suffered to accompaney him on the present expedition, he had a gun adapted to
                                    his size, he behaved extremely well, went on guard in his turn & fought in
                                    the Battle as well as a man, the darkness of the night prevented anyone from knowing
                                    who had fallen in the contest, each one fear'd for his fellow.17
                                    This poor Boy soon as the Battle was over sought his 
                              
                                 16 The Battle of 
                                                Tippecanoe
                                             was fought on the border of Burnett's Creek about
                                            seven miles northeast of the present site of 
                                                Lafayette
                                            , Indiana.
                              
                                 17 For a more detailed account of Captain
                                            Spencer's death, see Dillon, A History of
                                            Indiana, 471.
                           
                                     Father & found him among the slain, Lt
                                    Peters meet A Gentleman leading the Dear Child by the hand both were in tears, he
                                    enquired the cause, the Gentleman answered that in searching among the slain he had
                                    found this afflicted Child weeping Over the mangled body of his Father. The
                                    situation of his Mother is truly distressing being left poor, with
                                    a great number of Children to support. Many Widows, & Orphans, are made so,
                                    by this dreadful fight, when will Brother cease to lift his hand against his
                                    Brother, & learn War no more, there were but two married men killed from the
                                    4th & those were soldiers, only one married Officer wounded. O what a day
                                    was that, we heard of the Battle, hearing only the report without receiving any
                                    Official communication, our feelings were harrowed to the quick, each one expecting
                                    to hear sad news from their dearest Friend, At length the express arrived, with
                                    letters for many of us, but his feelings were so wrought up that he could not
                                    compose himselfe sufficiently, to select the different letters, but put them all
                                    into my hand, & I could neither see, nor read, and passed them into the
                                    hands of a Lady who stood by me, & who not having her Husband among the
                                    Troops felt a little more composed & was enabled to find mine, &
                                    when I saw the writting & held the letter in my hand I could hardly believe
                                    my own eyes. My bodily weakness was great, being just recovered from another attack
                                    of the fever ague, & my anxiety so intense respecting my Dear Husband, that
                                    I could hardly keep from fainting. I sunk down on the first chair I could find and
                                    with Mrs G, kneling on one side & Mrs W, on the other & Mrs J,
                                    before me, I opened the letter & began to read, but proceded only to the
                                    third or fourth line, when we all burst into tears which relieved our aching hearts
                                    & I was enabled to read my letter, & to my great joy, found that my
                                    beloved Husband & others, whom I valued, had escaped without injury, how
                                    often have I read, & heard of Indian fights, till my blood chilled, in my
                                    viens, & little thought I should ever be so personally interested in one.
                                    Our situation was very exposed while the Troops were absent, for every thing went that could carry a musket & left us Women &
                                    Children without even a guard, Mrs W. & myselfe had loaded Pistols at our
                                    bedside but I some doubt if we should have been able to use them had we found it
                                    necessary, had the Indians known our situation a few of them could have Massacred
                                    the Inhabitants & burnt the Village, but was not permitted, a kind
                                    providence prevented.
                        Capt Bain whom no doubt you reccallect, was tomahawked in a most shocking maner.18 It was thought by the distance, in which he was found from
                                    Camp, that the Indians attempted to take him Prisoner, & he chose death
                                    rather than submit to them, he was a fine man & is much lamented by his
                                    Brother Officers, he was buried on or near the scene of action, & his grave
                                    disguised, that he may not be disentered & his bones left to bleach upon the
                                    plains, this has been done to the rest, they being all consigned to one grave, the
                                    Indians have dug up the bodies, & left them exposed to the wild animals who
                                    roam in that region.
                        
                           
                              18 This may have been Captain Baen wose activities are
                                        described by Dillon, A History of Indiana,468, 471.
                        
                        
                        The 4 Regiment acquited themselves with much honor, & from what I can learn,
                                    it seems to be the general opinion, but for them, the Indians would have conquered-I
                                    refer you, to the last chapter, of the 3 Vol. of Washingtons life for a more
                                    distinct Idea of Indians & their treachery. My Husband was gone 4 weeks
                                    & in that time only took of his clothes to put on clean ones,
                        Some Indian Cheifs have been to the Governer, desirous of peace, they are much
                                    exasperated with one, whom they style their Prophet & who urged them to
                                    fight, assureing them they would be victorious, the event proved he was but a mere
                                    Man, & their confidence in him is shaken.19
                        
                        We are keeping house with Mr & Mrs Whitlock, & are very comfortably
                                    & pleasantly situated, as much so, as is possible, among intire strangers,
                                    they are excellent people, we eat together, but have our seperate Parlors with
                                    fires, of course shall not fatigue each other with being too much in each others
                                    company,
                        A number of Soldiers have died of their wounds since their return, funerals often,
                                    sometimes two a day, very solemn is the sight & sound, for the coffins are
                                    followed by Soldiers, with their Arms reversed, marching to the tune of Roslin
                                    Castle beat upon Muffled drums, poor fellows, thou hast paid the debt of nature,
                                    with no kind Mother, or Sister to alleviate thy distress, or wipe the cold sweat
                                    from thy brow, strangers have performed the last sad offices for thee, &
                                    among them, thy bones shall rest, till sommoned, by the last trump, to stand before
                                    the judge, of quick & dead.
                        January 29th 1812 
                                        Vincennes
                                     I cannot discribe to you my Dear Mother, how anxiously I look forward,
                                    to the time, when I shall once more, behold you, God grant that your precious life
                                    may be spared, & that we may be permitted to pass many happy hours together,
                                    it is 9 months since I left you, this is a long time to be seperated from those we
                                    love, but the variety of scenes through which we have passed, has of course made it
                                    appear to fly with rapidity. I long to be in a place where some respect is paid to
                                    the Sabbath, There is an excellent Preacher here, of the Presbyterian Order, we
                                    attend his preaching, & are much pleased with him he is an excellent Man
                                    & has an interesting family, but few keep holy time here, the generality are
                                    intirely engrossed with the world, Our Friends with whom we reside attend with us
                                    & are pleased with going.
                        
                           
                              19 The Prophet, a brother of the Shawnee warrior Tecumseh,
                                        preached against drunkenness, witches, and the type of civilization that the
                                        white men had brought to the frontier. Both he and Tecumseh urged the Indians to
                                        return to the customs of their forebears rather than adopt the white
                                        man's culture. Their influence on the Indians in the Indiana Territory,
                                        especially on those at the Prophet's Town, was believed by Governor
                                        Harrison and others to be in a large part responsible for the hostility and
                                        violation of treaties of the Indians in the area. The Battle of 
                                            Tippecanoe
                                         resulted in the breaking up of the Indian settlement of
                                        Prophet's Town and a decline in the prestige and influence of the
                                        Prophet among the more important northwestern tribes. It temporarily relieved
                                        the frontier settlements from the threat of hostile Indians and defeated
                                        Tecumseh's plan.
                        
                        
                        We were very much alarmed the other night with a violent shock of an earth quake. We
                                    were awoke out of a sound sleep by the House shaking in a most strange maner, at
                                    first we could not imagine what it was, my first impression was that the Indians
                                    were trying to get into the house, for I never thought of an Earth quake, but we
                                    soon discovered what it was, it was truely alarming, they have continued since, some
                                    times two a day, a few chimineys have been thrown down & the ceiling of some
                                    houses cracked considerably the feelings excited by them are different from any
                                    thing I ever experienced. The judgments that are abroad in the world all tend to
                                    shew us the falibility, of earthly enjoyments, & the nescessity of religion,
                                    to make us happy, & enable us to veiw these judgments, as we ought, how mild
                                    are they compared with what our sins deserve. Dear Abby youth is the time for
                                    preparation, Piety in youth is delightful, the Poet says, "religion never was
                                    designed to make our pleasures less."
                        I felt a little vexed, with those wives you mentioned, in your letter, who would
                                    prefer, staying at home, rather than suffer a little inconvenience, what did they
                                    get married for. Never, no never, for a single instant, have I
                                    been sorry that I came with mine, on the contrary, I feel grateful to him who is the
                                    Author of all our blessings, that I was enable to accompaney him, to take care of
                                    him when he is sick, & to console him under the various ills incident to
                                    human nature, some might say this was enthusiasm, but I do think we have been
                                    married long enough to find out whether the attachment, that grow, with our growth,
                                    & strengthed with our strength is real or imaginary.
                        
                           
                                        Vincennes
                                     March 11, 1812 We expect to leave this place soon, but where our
                                    destination is, we know not yet, we hope it will be towards you, the boats are
                                    reparing to convey us hence, We continue to feel repeated shocks of the Earth, I
                                    often rise in the night & go to the door to examine the Weather, for the
                                    most severe ones have been felt in calm lowering weather.
                        There was an Indian Counsel here last week which curiosity prompted me to attend,
                                    there were about 70, painted & ornamented in various ways & no doubt
                                    to their own admiring eyes, appeared very beautiful, one, had one side of his face,
                                    red, the other green, with nose and ear jewels, Some with silver Bands on their
                                    arms, & meddles suspended from their necks, one had a pair of cows horns on
                                    his head, they are good Orators but all they said, had to be interpreted, after the
                                    council the Calmut of peace was smoked, which is a long pipe made especally for this
                                    purpose, each one smoking the same, in turn, Mrs G smoked with them, but I keept out
                                    of sight in a small room adjoing, as I felt not the least inclination to taste it,
                                    after so many red Brethern, before they left the Village, they gave the inhabitants
                                    a specimen of their agility, in danseing before each house, their music is a keg,
                                    with deers skin drawn over it, it makes a direful humdrum noise, they wear nothing,
                                    on such occasions, but a peice of cloth round their waist, their squaws &
                                    papposes came with them, the Ladies ride astride, they are perfect
                                    slaves to the Men, When will  their condition be
                                    ameliorated by their becoming subjects to the meek & lowly Jesus.
                        I visited a sugar Camp as it is called, last week, & was gratified with
                                    viewing the process, holes are bored in large trees, called the Sugar Maple, with
                                    which this part of the country abounds, & tubes put in, which conveys the
                                    liquor into a trough, it is very clear, & pleasant, to the taste, those who
                                    take pains with it, make very excellent sugar suitable for any use, the labor is
                                    performed by blacks and superintended by their Mistress, the person whom we saw, was
                                    a Lady of great respectability & very rich, it was a beautiful after noon,
                                    all nature smiled, the air was soft & sweet, delightful riding horseback.
                                    This climate is mild, have put on no extra clothing this Winter, except when walking
                                    or riding, & then a coat or large shawl, was sufficient, in the coldest
                                    weather, a very little snow has fallen, which disappeared, as soon as it touched the
                                    ground, trees blossom in Febuary, & the gardens are quit forward at present,
                                    lettuce, Radishes, & asparagus, we have now without the assistance of hot
                                    beds.
                        March 31. We have received orders to procede to 
                                        Detroit
                                     I shall go the rounds, ere I am permitted to see My Dear Mother
                                    & Sisters, I understand the place is gay & dissapated, this makes it
                                    objectionable to us. the Climate is like New 
                                        England
                                    , The troops are to go by land & not by Water as was first
                                    thought, they will have to march 600 Miles, this being the distance, from 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , to 
                                        Detroit
                                    , & sleep on the ground, in tents every night, it will take us
                                    some days to accomplish it, we shall procede to 
                                        Newport
                                     Ke'ny from thence cross the river to 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     & through 
                                        Ohio
                                     to 
                                        Michigan
                                    , a part of the way will be thro woods & Praries where as yet
                                    none but the Indians foot has penetrated. Mrs F Mrs G, & myself will perform
                                    our journey on horse back, & my Husband being in the Staf will have this
                                    privilege also, so I shall be spared the distress of seeing him encounter
                                    difficulties, which those who march must nescessariely endure, I have been learning
                                    to ride horse back, & like it much, but how I shall succede in going through
                                    swamps & fording rivers experience will alone determine.
                     
                  
               
                
            [To be continued in the next issue.]
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               A Bibliography of James Whitcomb Riley. By Anthony J. and Dorothy R. Russo. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1944, pp. xxi, 372.)
            
                    "But anyone knows ef you got the clothes,
                    You can go in the crowd wher' the best of 'em goes!"
                
            James Whitcomb Riley wrote these somewhat prophetic lines when, literally speaking, he appeared in
                    country homespun of Hoosierdom. In this bibliography he acquires the dress, let us say, of the
                    aristocracy of letters. Some measurements had been taken for this new attire by Edmund H. Eitel in
                    the biographical edition of the poet's works in 1913, where more than fifty pages of
                    bibliographical notes appeared, and in Letters edited by William Lyon Phelps and published in 1930.
                    But years of cutting and fitting and stitching were still to be done, and it has been done. One
                    regrettable feature is that Mr. Russo did not live to see the work completed.
            This "formal" is beautifully and carefully tailored. The designers say that it follows in many
                    respects a conventional pattern. But what they do not say and what is distinctly observable is that,
                    formal though the dress may be, it has, through the understanding and devotion of those preparing
                    it, been made to accentuate the personality of the wearer. The pertinent question now arises, Does
                    the poet seem at home in the new outfit and in the aristocratic company to which it admits him?
            The bibliography of a literary man is a challenge to scholars, who either silently neglect the
                    subject of the work as unworthy of the effort that accompanies research or begin under the stimulus
                    of the work to look with interested and appraising eyes. I speak perhaps from a personal bias,
                    having cut my teeth on Riley books; but I sincerely believe that James Whitcomb Riley deserves that
                    study for which the bibliography prepares. Questions suggest themselves at once concerning the
                    poet's reading, his reception in foreign lands, his literary friendships, his reflection of
                    the literary taste of more than one generation of readers, his part in America's cultural
                    development. For he was part of a now well-recognized literary growth which, in the 60's,
                    70's, and 80's, provided the West and South a voice. Abraham Lincoln, John Hay,
                    Joaquin Miller, Edward Eggleston, Mark Twain,  Mary Murfree,
                    Joel Chandler Harris, and the humorists who made themselves heard above the din of war and the
                    confusion of reconstruction were part of that growth and voice. He shared with some of these an
                    interest in presenting a region with the color that dialect gives and perhaps justified the praise
                    of the scholar George Philip Krapp, "Probably the best known and best loved of all dialect
                    writers in America...." Though part of a growth or movement, he yet had something
                    distinctive to present: He understood the yearning of men and women in a rapidly industrializing
                    society-a yearning that at times amounted to nostalgia-for the simplicity of country places and
                    country ways. And Riley has literary significance, not only through his relationship to the West
                    that was becoming vocal, but also through his ties with the literary East, with both its elderly and
                    its youthful spokesmen. His "Raggedy Man," his "Hired Girl," his "Uncle
                    Sidney," and other character creations have contributed more than is generally realized to
                    the silent inculcation of true democratic faith through a certain inherent dignity and lovableness
                    that are not dependent on social position. A Bibliography of James Whitcomb Riley
                    will be an invaluable aid in the resolution of complexities that attend the study of a period of
                    cultural growth.
            Mr. and Mrs. Russo, with the aid of the Lilly Endowment, Mr. J. K. Lilly, Jr., and the Indiana
                    Historical Society have met the requirements for the best bibliographer: accuracy, lucidity, and
                    honesty. They have shown painstaking care in tracing the stories and poems of Riley to the places of
                    their first appearance in print, in ferreting out ephemeral productions, in finding and identifying
                    all his books in which his prose and verse appeared for the first time, and in describing those
                    books. They have organized the materials with the collector, the librarian, the student, and the
                    general reader in mind: there are clearly defined divisions, arranged with a "well-proportioned
                    picture of Riley's published works" the goal; explanatory introductions to these divisions;
                    cross references; references to outside works that afford necessary enlightenment on many items; an
                    alphabetized list of the journals in which individual stories and poems were first printed; an index
                    of first lines of those writings not so indexed in the biographical edition; an alphabetized list of
                    poems that have appeared as sheet music; a selected  group of
                    books and articles containing biographical and critical comment; and, finally, a general index for
                    the entire volume. And promises are kept. The authors pretend not beyond what they have been able to
                    do. They have been careful to distinguish items that they have known of indirectly from those that
                    have actually passed under their eyes. According to a recent statement of Mrs. Russo, she kept in
                    mind while at the five-year labor the distinction once made by her uncle, Charles A. Beard, between
                        a bibliography and the bibliography, with the latter the
                    desired end.
            As I indicated earlier, the authors have made a bibliography that accentuates the personality of the
                    man studied. The book is attractively bound in brownish-gray cloth. In addition to title and
                    publisher the backstrip of green bears stamped in gilt four illustrations reminiscent of the poet
                    and his work: a child with a halo; one of the nine goblins of the back fence; a corn shock and
                    pumpkins; and a boy of "Noon-time, June-time," with fishing pole and bait can. Opposite the
                    title page of the book is a reproduction in color of a portrait of Riley by the Hoosier artist T. C.
                    Steele. And shedding suggestions of the life of Riley's day over lists of titles and
                    minutiae of collations are diverting hints of the Bowen-Merrill fire, the misdating of books by some
                    publishers to lessen postage cost, the "War of the Poets" in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the late 70's, the prosecution of a 
                        Chicago
                     firm for pirating Riley's work, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Flower Mission, the collaboration of Riley and Nye, the hoax of "Leonainie,"
                    and the work of such illustrators as Gruelle, Booth, Vawter, Relyea, and others. All of these
                    approaches are, like the poet, inviting and friendly.
            Riley will wear this new garment and appear among the aristocrats with ease and grace.
            Frank Davidson
         
         
            
               An Economic History of the Indiana Oolitic Limestone Industry. By Joseph A.
                    Batchelor. Indiana Business Studies, No. 27. (
                        Bloomington
                    : The School of Business, Indiana University, 1944, pp. xii, 382. $3.50.)
            Professor Batchelor's study "is the product of the cooperation of two century-old
                    neighbors-Indiana University and the Indiana limestone industry." It presents an over-all
                    delineation of the interaction of the diversity of problems 
                    that have marked the life of the latter. Hence it is primarily an economic treatise, rather than
                    either a biography of an industry or a history. It is written in narrative style, however, and from
                    a historical viewpoint. Professor Batchelor divides his account into five chronological periods,
                    each of which is subdivided into a topical treatment of the major problems.
            Many of the distinguishing qualities of American industry are revealed in miniature by a study of
                    Indiana oolitic limestone, found principally in Lawrence and 
                        Monroe counties
                    . "Illustrations are afforded of such features as financial manipulations, railway
                    rebates, the impact of technological innovations," and a wide variety of labor problems and
                    developments. The author likewise points out that this Hoosier industry has been characterized by
                    instability, overcapacity, price wars, sporadic efforts to establish prices, and occasional attempts
                    to differentiate a product which is "more homogeneous than... most raw materials." He
                    presents sufficient data to reach the conclusion that oolitic limestone has those qualities of
                    "workability, durability, strength, and pleasing appearance" which are considered prerequisites of a
                    satisfactory building material.
            The pioneer period of the industry lasted from 1827 to about 1870. Although oolitic limestone was
                    used in the construction of the 
                        United States
                     Customs House and courthouse at 
                        Louisville
                    , started in 1853, local markets featured this period. Professor Batchelor suggests four
                    causes for this situation: wood and brick were much cheaper than stone; railroad facilities were
                    inadequate; Niagara limestone, found among other places at 
                        St. Paul
                    , Indiana, Joliet, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               , enjoyed the advantage of place utility over oolitic
                    limestone and a popularity which resulted from priority of discovery; and, last of all,
                    "the building cycle was in a declining phase from the early 1850's until
                    approximately 1865."
            During the period from 1871 to 1896 the fledgling quarry industry came of age, and cut stone mills
                    were introduced. A variety of influences affected the demand for building stone, of which technology
                    was a particularly significant one. It was the time of H. H. Richardson and the Romanesque revival
                    movement in architecture. Then, in the eighties, came the first of the 
                        Chicago
                     "skyscrapers," so constructed  that "the
                    walls became mere envelopes enclosing the space within," with structural steel and
                    reinforced concrete bearing the weight of the building. Mechanical innovations available to
                    contractors included steam hoisting engines, power excavating shovels, electric hoists, steel
                    derricks, and pneumatic riveters (1898). Quarrymen were offered larger facilities by the Monon, the 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Richmond
                    , the 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    , and other railways. They profited particularly by the' substitution of machinery for
                    hand methods as a result of the introduction of several types of channeling machines, power drills,
                    steam derricks, and gang saws. The 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Boston
                     fires of 1871 and 1872, respectively, led to a demand for less inflammable building
                    materials, a situation which facilitated the selling of limestone for the construction of such
                    public buildings as the Lawrence and 
                        Marion County
                     courthouses, the 
                        Chicago City
                     Hall, and the 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana state houses.
            The book abounds in statistics. The number of quarries increased from 16 in 1870 to 48 in 1895, while
                    the cubic feet of sales grew from 350,000 in 1877 to 5,500,000 in 1896. The number of employees
                    almost doubled, there being 871 in 1880 and 1,476 in 1896. In 1899 the value of the sales of Indiana
                    oolitic limestone was $1,400,854, constituting 27.8% of the total sales in the 
                        United States
                    . During the next two decades there were only three years that the proportionate value
                    of Indiana oolitic limestone declined, the general tendency being to increase, reaching a mark of
                    79.2% in 1917 with a value more than twice as great as in 1899.
            Sales fluctuations in the period from 1897 to 1918 resulted from the amount of promotional activities
                    carried on by individuals, by Indiana Congressmen, and by such organizations as the Indiana
                    Limestone Quarrymen's Association and the 
                        Bedford
                     Stone Club. Attention to the psychology of selling brought results; for example, grades
                    formerly known as "coarse" and "mixed" sold much better when renamed "rustic" and
                    "variegated."
            Railway developments during these years had two principal influences. Rivalry between carriers
                    (several of which were financially interested in stone companies) led to considerable expansion,
                    particularly when rebates could be obtained. The practice of charging the same rates for dressed and
                    rough stone encouraged many companies to operate both  cut stone
                    mills and quarries. The number of the latter actually decreased during this period from forty-three
                    to thirty-five, while the number of cut stone mills increased from ten to thirty-six. Hence,
                    Professor Batchelor describes it as a period of integration of quarries and cut stone mills. One of
                    the unfortunate results of this integration was the decrease in the effectiveness of the promotional
                    activities of cut stone firms outside Indiana.
            Trends which had been in progress prior to World War I continued into the postwar period, which was
                    characterized by price control from 1918 to 1925, by mergers from 1926 to 1929, and by the
                    development of an overcapacity which became almost disastrous. The total value of various kinds of
                    limestone sold by Indiana producers dropped from approximately eighteen million dollars in 1928 to
                    less than five million in 1933.
            The period from 1934 until 1941 was one of frustration for many companies. The outbreak of World War
                    II put an end, at least temporarily, to efforts of the industry to stage a comeback. Little
                    information is given, unfortunately, regarding the remarkable story of the conversion of the cut
                    stone mills for war production. This deficiency is being taken care of by a supplementary study now
                    in progress.
            In his final chapter the author notes that the decline of the limestone industry resulted largely
                    from "changing trends in building that favored substitute products, cheaper materials, or subsidized
                    local materials" and from price wars which arose because of excess capacity. He points out that in
                    order to escape the doldrums of the 1930's it will be necessary to reduce costs by
                    technological changes, to popularize stone for residential use, and to educate "architects,
                    contractors, and homeowners in the cheapest but most serviceable means of using stone." He
                    concludes that the degree to which such an enlarged market will prove profitable "will depend upon
                    the development of improved marketing methods, intelligent labor-management relations, and fairer
                    and more equitable competition among the operators."
            Space limitations prevent even the briefest of summaries of the author's excellent
                    discussion of such topics as business organization, price policies, profits, and labor problems
                    during the various periods. The book has a multiplicity of graphs and tables, but the absence of
                    pictures will  detract from its usefulness for laymen,
                    particularly if they reside outside the stone district. It is well annotated, with the footnotes
                    located for the convenience of the reader. Some ten pages are assigned to bibliography, the
                    arrangement of which, however, seems rather unorthodox. By and large the imperfections are minor.
                    Professor Batchelor has done an outstanding piece of work.
            Max P. Allen
         
         
            
               The Civil War Era, 1850-1873. By Eugene H. Roseboom. Volume IV, The
                        History of the State of 
                            Ohio
                        , edited by Carl F. Wittke. (
                  Columbus, Ohio: Ohio
                State Archaeological and Historical Society, 1944, pp.
                    xvii, 559. $25 per set.)
            The appearance of this volume completes the extensive and well-executed history of 
                        Ohio
                    . The period treated by Professor Roseboom is that of the Civil War-the years which led
                    to that memorable dispute, the struggle itself, and finally the recession of that conflict before
                    newer issues. The era was a significant one for it witnessed the disappearance of the old Union and
                    the development of a new nation, the decay of the canal system and the coming of the railroad, the
                    disintegration of the Whig party and the organization of the new Republican party. It saw the rise
                    of industrialization, urbanization, the mechanization of agriculture, educational changes, and the
                    beginnings of modern cultural developments.
            The reader may be surprised to find that the author opens the volume with a long survey of the rise
                    of manufactures and cities, of changes in agriculture and transportation, and of banking and
                    currency problems. From these he turns to "cultural strivings," "education, the professions
                    and the churches," and to the reform crusades for temperance, women's rights,
                    better conditions in prisons and welfare institutions, and for peace. In this manner he uses half of
                    his pages before getting to the political and sectional difficulties which are generally considered
                    to characterize the period and to be the causes of the Civil War. This first half is somewhat
                    factual and statistical and therefore does not make fascinating reading.
            An interesting and at times dramatic narrative runs through the second half of the book in which the
                    story of  political change and of 
                        Ohio
                    's part in the Civil War is told. It is not a belief in the greater
                    significance of political history that leads to the suggestion that a different arrangement of the
                    chapters would have made for greater interest. Certainly those parts of the economic and cultural
                    history reflecting the influence of the war might have been reserved for chapters near the end of
                    the volume. The style needs more sparkle. Sentences like the following are all too rare: "The
                    troopers who chased Morgan's raiders across southern Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     rode through miles of fried chicken and hot biscuits."
            One may wonder whether the author is consistent when he attributes conservativeness to the "dead hand
                    of frontier individualism" in one place (p. 118) and to "poverty and isolation" of the hill regions
                    in another (p. 127). The same criticism may be made in respect to the statement that the
                    constitution of 1851 "took no account of the changing economic life of the State" (p. 134), just
                    after describing anti-bank, anti-corporation, and taxation provisions. Is there a third
                    illustration? Clement L. Vallandigham is referred to in the statement (p. 407) : "His was
                    not the voice of the West but only of the lower Ohio Valley . . . ."
                    But "The chief centers of strength of the 
                        Ohio
                     Copperheads lay in the . . . north central and northwest central parts of the State, a
                    conservative Democratic area. . . ." and "unlike Indiana and 
                  Illinois, Ohio
               's southern counties, with a few exceptions. . . were Unionist
                    [p. 409]." One might also ask for some explanation of the "older churchless frontier" (p.
                    214). The careful reader who notices footnotes will be surprised at the few newspapers cited and a
                    comparatively extensive dependence upon secondary accounts as contrasted with original sources.
                    Robert S. Fletcher's A History of Oberlin College is a recent work of
                    excellent character which was not noticed in the citations.
            Many of these criticisms are items which may easily be counterbalanced by more numerous and more
                    important virtues. Certainly the work is superior to any previously published history of this period
                    in 
                        Ohio
                    ; many of the chapters are excellent, as for instance, the chapter "
                        Nebraska
                     and Nativism"; and the picture of the influences and forces at work is comprehensive
                    and clear. It takes its place as an important volume in an important history of 
                        Ohio
                    .
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
         
            
               One Hundred Great Years. By Thomas Ewing Dabney. (
                  Baton Rouge, Louisiana:
                            Louisiana
                University Press, 1944, pp.
                    xii, 503. Appendices and index. $4.00.)
            
               The Picayune came into being during a rainstorm in 
                        New Orleans
                     on January 25, 1837, as the Southern version of the "Penny Press" of the Jackson
                    period. It grew to manhood within a decade and became a leader of the expansionist movement to the
                    west in the Mexican War period. It recorded the crumbling economy of the Cotton Kingdom and the tide
                    of rebellion. It watched the defeat of the Confederacy and the bitter experiences of reconstruction;
                    it led 
                        New Orleans
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                     and the Gulf Coast region through good times and bad. As its competitors dropped aside
                    one by one, the old Picayune survived consolidations and changes in leadership to become, as the 
                        New Orleans
                    
                    Times-Picayune, one of today's greatest American newspapers.
            The story of a newspaper through a century must of necessity be a composite picture traced through
                    thousands of issues, each a faithful record of the life of a community at the end of a single day.
                    Just as a single issue of today's 
                        New Orleans
                    
                    Times-Picayune presents a side variety of subjects and personalities, so within
                    its files are bound up in infinite number the stories, the heartaches, the successes and the
                    failures, the tears and the laughter, and above all, the steady march of progress which have made 
                        New Orleans
                     a romantic and an inspiring spot from the old Creole days to the present.
            Thomas Ewing Dabney's One Hundred Great Years is more than a history of
                    the Times-Picayune from its founding through 1940. It is the history of the nation's growth
                    through a dramatic century as reported in the newspaper's columns. Mr. Dabney's
                    scholarly background and his long training as a reporter are combined in a happy partnership to
                    produce a readable and delightful story based on long and painstaking research. Perhaps no other
                    writer has presented so clearly the contest for control of the city's destiny waged between
                    the old Creole French and the rising tide of Anglo Saxons following the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase, the decline and revival of Mississippi River traffic,
                    the story behind the story of flood control.
            
            While Mr. Dabney points out the significant contributions made by the Picayune's founders,
                    George Wilkins Kendall and Francis Asbury Lunsden, as well as Samuel F. Wilson, Page Baker, Pearl
                    Rivers and others whose names brought fame to the paper, he has rightfully discerned that a
                    newspaper actually is made by a great body of anonymous workers who toil day after day, almost
                    unknown to the public. It is to this group that he has dedicated his volume.
            Fayette Copeland
         
         
            
               
                  Lake Michigan. By Milo M. Quaife. American Lake Series. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Bobbs-Merrill Co., 1944, pp. 384. End maps, illustrations, bibliographical note.
                    $3.50.)
            
               Lake Superior. By Grace Lee Nute. American Lake Series. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Bobbs-Merrill Co., 1944, pp. 376. End maps, maps, illustrations, bibliographical note.
                    $3.50.)
            Dr. Quaife, editor of the Series, naturally chose Lake Michigan as his own. Long
                    familiar with the documents, the people, and the region, the author has produced a happy combination
                    of solid history, travelogue, and inspirational description. Part one, "From Bark Canoe to
                    Steel Leviathan," establishes the historical background. "Black Robe and Red
                    Skin," "Dreamer of Empire," "Cities in Embryo," "Treason and Sin at Old
                    Mackinac," "Sturgeon Boats," "Wind against Steam" are representative chapters
                    which both suggest and deliver. In part two the "Talk of Many Things" ranges from an authentic
                    historical account of state boundary disputes to nineteenth-century community-utopia quests and the
                    Kingdom of 
                        Benton
                     Harbor. Part three escorts the reader around the coast; fruit, tulips, dunesland, the
                    Green Bay Road, and finally 
                        Chicago
                    , the "Eighth Wonder of the World," are stops on the itinerary.
            Treating as the author does, with topics of varying interest appeal, the writing presents, to the
                    reviewer at least, a delightful change of pace. Being a historian, Dr. Quaife realizes that people
                    who read this kind of book often want some meat as well as dessert. At times the reader finds
                    himself mentally filing away the location of rich lodes of useful factual and source material; at
                    others, chuckling over comedy low and high. Many shrewd observations and  reflections are interspersed in the text. Footnote references are
                    adequate to enable the reader to know where he is "at" at all times; the bibliography represents the
                    sifting of a specialist.
            Lake Superior-a great cold sea and a land of scenery, history, and romance. French discoverers, fur
                    traders, and missionaries, aided by the author, tell their own stories in part one-"Footprints on
                    the Sands of Time." Part two, "Vulcan's Shops and Neptune's
                    Realm," treats of transportation, iron, copper, fish, and lumber. In part three arise the
                    "Saintly Cities" of the Sault, the cities of the south shore, and the "Queens of the Unsalted
                    Sea"-Superior and 
                        Duluth
                    . The scenic drive of the north shore (one of the most beautiful in the world), Isle
                    Royale, Indian lore and its literature comprise parts four and five. Most sources are identified in
                    the text. The bibliographical note is brief but adequate.
            There is much history here, also much knowledge of lake fisheries and fishing, of lumber, mining,
                    ships, men, and processes; there are statistics even. Permeating all is a love of the land, nature,
                    and the great lake.
            
               
                  Lake Michigan and Lake Superior are excellent examples of the
                    successful semi-popularization of history. When the literary artists attempt history, the result is
                    usually something more or less delectable-without much history. In these books the reader will find
                    a thrilling story, no less thrilling for its being true. For the student, historian, and lover of
                    the Middle West, a most important and lasting value is the introduction to the sources and
                    literature of the history of the lake region, often quoted, discussed and analyzed by the two
                    persons who know it best.
            Years ago Theodore Roosevelt said: 
                        The states that have grown up around the Great Lakes and in the Valley of the upper 
                                Mississippi
                            , [are] the states which are destined to be the greatest, the richest, the most
                            prosperous commonwealths which go to make up the mightiest republic the world has ever seen.
                            These states. . . form the heart of the country geographically, and they will soon become
                            the heart in population and in political and social importance. . . I should be sorry to
                            think that before these states there loomed a future of material prosperity merely. I regard
                            this section of the country as the heart of true American sentiment.
                    
            
            
            Others noted that the area would logically be the seat of American culture as well, a culture as
                    foreseen by the historian of a century ago, inspired by the momentous epochs of days gone by "to
                    which the human heart with its features and phenomena and the Godlike work of its improvement, adds
                    a permanent field of study and research." To this end the editor, authors, and publishers
                    of the American Lake Series are contributing their knowledge and their labors, the worthy products
                    of craftsmen.
            In material dress these books are war-time casualties-particularly so as regards the paper. Obviously
                    publication could not wait and the reader is the gainer on balance; he can travel vicariously
                    through time and space, on and around the Great Lakes-awaiting a day.
            R. C. Buley
         
         
            
               Boom Copper: The Story of the First U. S. Mining Boom. By Angus Murdoch. (
                        New York
                    : The MacMillan Company, 1943, pp. 255. End maps, photographs and drawings,
                    bibliography. $3.00.)
            This is the story of 
                        Michigan
                     copper, the Keweenaw Peninsula, and the Ontongon Country-from pre-Columbian times to
                    World War II. Until the 1920's, the "only place on earth where pure native copper was found
                    in commercial quantities," the Copper Country was "discovered and rediscovered more times
                    than the North and South poles together." Less spectacular than silver, gold, or diamonds,
                    copper not only was of as great economic importance, but contributed its romance and human history
                    as well.
            From Indian hatchet choppings to the world's most profitable metal mine, from "the edge of
                    nowhere" to a stronghold of defense in two .wars was the history of an area the size of a couple of
                    average counties. Indian secrets; French dreams; Carver-Henry superlatives and promotions; Douglas
                    Houghton, the real 
                        Columbus
                     of copper; White Pawnees; Jim Paul's boulder; Alexander Agassiz, 
                        Boston
                     capital, and Calumet and Heckla; prospectors; Cousin Jacks; the life of the miners, the
                    big and the little who placed blue chips on red metal-all these and many other things come and go as
                    the fascinating picture develops.
            The author has used the newspapers, the statistical reports company records, and the available
                    secondary literature  of the subject; he has counseled with
                    librarians and local historians. But above all, he has spent long hours profitably with the human
                    documents still extant. Footnotes are negligible and the bibliography is general. Though there are
                    some minor historical slips (p. 20, for instance), here is enough geology to satisfy all but the
                    geologist, enough history to satisfy all but the specialist, enough economics for all but the
                    statistically-minded brethren, and enough human interest for everybody.
            Mr. Murdoch would probably deny being a historianhe was associate editor of a trade journal and a
                    writer of travel bureau booklets-but he has an inquiring mind, patience, and a sincere interest in
                    his subject. He can turn a phrase without torturing a fact. Boom Copper is a
                    readable and useful book on a subject of considerable importance in the history of the Middle
                West.
         
         
         
            List of Contributors
            
               Lt. (j.g.) Lena C. Logan is stationed at 
                     Northampton, Massachusetts
                  , where she teaches at the Naval Academy Prepatory School.
               Lt. James A. Rawley is now serving in the armed forces and does personnel work at the 
                            New York
                         port of embarkation.
               George Purcell is postmaster of the 
                            Bloomington
                         Post Office, 
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana.
               Miss Caroline Dunn is librarian of the William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana
                        Historical Society at 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               Dr. Mary M. Crawford is an assistant professor of economics in the School of Business, Indiana
                        University.
               Dr. Max P. Allen is assistant director of the Indiana War History Commission and a member of
                        the Department of History, Indiana University.
               Dr. Fayette Copeland is counselor of men at the University of 
                     Oklahoma, Norman, Oklahoma
                  .
               Mr. Frank Davidson is an associate professor of English, Indiana University.
               Dr. R. C. Buley is an associate professor in the Department of History, Indiana University.
               Mrs. Irene Macy Strieby is librarian for Eli Lilly & Company and a member of the
                        Genealogy Committee of the Indiana Historical Society.
            
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            WAYNE COUNTY MARRIAGE RECORDS, 1820-18221 (contd.)
            MRS. IRENE MACY STRIEBY
            
               
                  
                            Names
                        
                  
                            Dates
                        
                  
                            Married By
                        
               
               
                  
                  
                            License
                        
                  
                            Marriage
                        
                  
               
               
                  Joseph Comer & Sarah Dollerhide
                  3-17-1820
                  4- 5-1820
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq. p. 31
               
               
                  John Henwood & Rebeca Spotha [Spahrs?]
                  3-21-1820
                  3-23-1820
                  Rev. James Benefield2
                  
               
               
                  James Dixon & Lylly McKinney
                  4- 1-1820
                  4- 5-1820
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Richard Jones & Hannah Thomas
                  4- 1-1820
                  4- 3-1820
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  James Miner & Elizabeth Cartwright
                  4- 1-1820
                  4- 3-1820
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  John Adams & Rebekah Hinkle
                  4- 3-1820
                  4-9[?]-1820
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  Phillip Flick & Mirian Small
                  4- 5-1820
                  4- 8-1820
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Bryant Brewer & Eliza Briggs
                  4-13-1820
                  
                  
               
               
                  Peter Endsley & Mary Wright
                  4-24-1820
                  4-27-1820
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  John Clark & Anna Staunton
                  5- 3-1820
                  5- 4-1820
                  Adam Boyd, Esq. p. 32
               
               
                  Hampton Queen & Hannah Williams
                  5- ? 1820
                  5-11-1820
                  Jacob Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  John Powers & Rebekah Crews
                  5- 9-1820
                  5-11-1820
                  Rev. Joshua Holland
               
               
                  William Williams & Elizabeth Ralston
                  5-17-1820
                  5-22-1820
                  Barnabas McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  Nixon Palen & Pennina Asher
                  5-17-1820
                  
                  
               
            
            
               
                        
                     1 Transcribed from the microfilm copy of 
                                Wayne County
                             Marriage Records, March 1820, to September, 1822, made for the Society of
                            Indiana Pioneers from Volume A, Second Book, in the clerk's office, Richmond, Indiana. The
                            records published here are from the second thirty pages of the volume. Volume A contains the
                            marriage records between 1817 and 1830.
                        The same policy of making uniform the names of ministers and justices of the peace has been
                            followed as in "
                                Wayne County
                             Marriage Records, 1811-1817," Indiana Magazine of History
                            (Bloomington, Indiana, 1905- ), XL (1944), 87-102, and "
                                Wayne County
                             Marriage Records, 1817-1820," ibid., XL, 188-205. Samuel
                            Taylor served as a justice of the peace as well as a minister. An asterisk is used after
                            names in brackets when it is the name appearing in the index of Volume A and if it varies
                            with the entry.
                    
               
                  2 This name appears as Benefiel in earlier records.
            
            
            
               
                  Eli Dawson & Rachel Summers
                  6- 3-1820
                  6-11-1820
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  William Hughs (Hughes) & Jane Jamison
                  6- ?-1820
                  8- 6-1820
                  Rev. Henry Logan
               
               
                  Elisha King & Belinda Rambo
                  6-10-1820
                  6-13-1820
                  Rev. Hugh Cull
               
               
                  James Stilwell & Mary Morgan
                  6-17-1820
                  6-17-1820
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  Josiah Clawson & Sally McGraw
                  6-13-1820
                  6-13-1820
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq. p 33
               
               
                  John Wickard & Eliza Kratzer [Cratzner]*
                  
                  7-21-1820
                  7-22-1820
                  Rev. Henry Logan
               
               
                  Rich Wharton & Nancy Mckee
                  7- 3-1820
                  7- 6-1820
                  Rev. Henry Logan
               
               
                  John Harper & Sarah McClain
                  7-13-1820
                  7-13-1820
                  John C. Kibbey, Esq.
               
               
                  James Wright & Amelia Crouch
                  7-17-1820
                  7-25-1820
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  John Canaday & Hannah Perry
                  7-22-1820
                  7-23-1820
                  Jacob Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  Mathais Luce & Hanah Underhill
                  7-22-1820
                  8-3-1820
                  Barnabas McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  Samuel Landers & Elizabeth Stretch
                  7-25-1820
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Harshfield & Elizabeth Shureigh [?]
                  8-11-1820
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Farlow & Hannah Little
                  8-16-1820
                  8-16-1820
                  Joseph Flint, Esq. p. 34
               
               
                  Benjamin Shaw & Aley Moore
                  8- 9-1820
                  8-13-1820
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
                  Jesse Williams & Polly Hart
                  8-16-1820
                  8-20-1820
                  Rev. Isaac Cotton
               
               
                  Thomas Cuppy & Jemimah Ward
                  8-25-1820
                  9- 7-1820
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  John Benefield & Rebecca Summers
                  8-29-1820
                  8-30-1820
                  Rev. James Benefield
               
               
                  Sandford Rhods [Rhodes] & Nancy Smith
                  8-29-1820
                  8-29-1820
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  Daniel Lyons & Julia Knapp
                  9- 9-1820
                  9-10-1820
                  Samuel McLean, Esq.
               
               
                  Stephen Noland & Naney Adams
                  9-12-1820
                  9-12-1820
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  Barnabas Lamb & Ruth Bentley
                  9-11-1820
                  9-13-1820
                  John C. Kibbey, Esq.
               
               
                  David Hiatt & Lavina Hiatt
                  9-16-1820
                  9-17-1820
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Stephen Elliott & Anna Cook
                  9-18-1820
                  9-23-1820
                  Adam Boyd, Esq. p. 35
               
               
                  Samuel Harlan & Melinda Owens
                  9-20-1820
                  9-21-1820
                  Rev. Samuel Boyd3
                  
               
            
            
               
                  3 The Reverend Samuel Boyd came from Kentucky to Whitewater Valley in
                        1811. See Andrew W. Young, History of 
                                Wayne County
                            , Indiana (Cincinnati, 1872), 238-39.
            
            
            
               
                  Anthony Mabit [Mabbitt] & Sarah Doey [Dewey]
                  9-21-1820
                  9-25-1820
                  Rev. Jonathan Keeney[Kenney?]
               
               
                  William Gail & Penina Small
                  9-25-1820
                  9-26-1820
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Abner Spray & Mayomy [Naomi?] Lamb
                  9-27-1820
                  9-28-1820
                  Barnabus McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  Jeremiaah Meek & Catherine Williams
                  9-30-1820
                  10- 1-1820
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  Davies Caldwell & Elizabeth Browne
                  10-3-1820
                  10-11-1820
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  James Harvey & Margaret Canady
                  10-7-1820
                  10-12-1820
                  Jacob Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  Tabor McKee & Sarah Elliott4
                  
                  10-16-1820
                  10-19-1820
                  Rev. Henry Logan
               
               
                  Thomas Garret & Sophia Gray
                  10-16[?]-1820
                  
                   p. 36
               
               
                  Silas Hubbard & Betsy Anderson
                  10-25-1820
                  11-8-1820
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  James Toney & Sally Lybrook
                  10-23-1820
                  10-26-1820
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  James Justice & Elizabeth Williams
                  10-27-1820
                  10-26[?]-1820
                  Rev. Hugh Cull
               
               
                  David Ward & Rachel Martindale
                  11-1-1820
                  11-2-1820
                  Rev. Isaac Cotton
               
               
                  John Markle & Sally Allen
                  10-24-1820
                  10-26-1820
                  Rev. James Benefield
               
               
                  Vincent Garner & Rachel Ratliff
                  11-3-1820
                  11-15-1820
                  Barnabus McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  Josiah Hiott [Hiatt] & Esther Hiott [Hiatt]*
                  
                  11-2-1820
                  11-3-1820
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Abel Crow & Mary Small
                  11-5-1820
                  11-6-1820
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Thomas Brown & Mahala Chambers
                  11-10-1820
                  12-11-1820
                  Levi Willets, Esq. p. 37
               
               
                  John Sharp & Cynthia W. Woods
                  11-15-1820
                  11-16-1820
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  Waston Roe & Elener W. Platts
                  11-17-1820
                  11-23-1820
                  Rev. John Gibson
               
               
                  Joseph Brown & Nancy Roney [Toney?]
                  11-20-1820
                  11-21-1820
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  James Calaway & Matilda Cooper
                  11-21-1820
                  11-26-1820
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  John Paxson [Paxon]* & Mary Cope [Cape]*
                  
                  11-21-1820
                  11-23-1820
                  Jacob Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  Henry C. Ransford & Elenor Rue
                  11-27-1820
                  11-[?]-1820
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
            
            
               
                  4 The record of this marriage is omitted from the index of Volume
                    A.
            
            
            
               
                  John Howard & Rebekah Mundin
                  12-6-1820
                  12-6-1820
                  Adam Banks, Esq.
               
               
                  William Jordan & Kezia Brannon
                  12-6-1820
                  12-14-1820
                  Rev. Isaac Cotton
               
               
                  Robert Starrett & Margarett Montgomery
                  12-19-1820
                  12-21-1820
                  Joseph Flint, Esq. p. 38
               
               
                  Jeremiah Stillwell & Candis [Candice?] West
                  12-21-1820
                  12-28-1820
                  Barnabus McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  Isaac James & Naomi Strattan
                  12-23-1820
                  12-28-1820
                  Benjamin Hodges, Esq.
               
               
                  David Martindale & Priscilla Lewis
                  12-25-1820
                  12-28-1820
                  Rev. Samuel Boyd
               
               
                  Loyd Knight & Catharine Stanley
                  12-21-1820
                  12-27-1820
                  Rev. Hugh Cull
               
               
                  William Canaday & Rachel Sunderland [Sutherland?]
                  12-26-1820
                  12-28-1820
                  Jacob Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  Thomas Allen & Elender Walker
                  12-26-1820
                  12-28-1820
                  Adam Banks, Esq.
               
               
                  William Eaton & Phebe Gard
                  1-1-1821
                  1-4-1821
                  Rev. John Burns
               
               
                  John Woodkirk & Rebecca Holman
                  1-1-1821
                  
                  
               
               
                  William T. Harris & Jane Worril [Worl, Worrell?]
                  1-3-1821
                  1-3-1821
                  Rev. Samuel Boyd p. 39
               
               
                  James Willets & Lydia Jobe
                  1-16-1821
                  1-18-1821
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  John Brown & Ann Woodward
                  1-16-1821
                  1-17-1821
                  Jacob N. Booker, Esq.
               
               
                  Robert Felton & Eliza Felton
                  1-18-1821
                  1-18-1821
                  Josiah Bradbury, Esq.
               
               
                  Thomas Pemberton & Rebecah Shipley
                  1-20-1821
                  1-21-1821
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Henry Warman & Pheby Ginn
                  1-30-1821
                  2-1-1821
                  Rev. Henry Logan
               
               
                  James Mason & Kesiah Sullivan
                  1-17-1821
                  2-1[?]-1821
                  Edward Starbuck, Esq.
               
               
                  Rozzel [Russell?] Spencer & Mary Nelson
                  2-1-1821
                  2-2-1821
                  John Biggs, Esq.
               
               
                  Jacob Kline & Margaret Seller [Sellers?]
                  2-8-1821
                  2-8-1821
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  Henry Way & Phebe Macy
                  2-9-1821
                  2-11-1821
                  Barnabus McManus, Esq. p. 40
               
               
                  Cason Burckhalter & Jane Hill
                  2-10-1821
                  6-22-1821
                  Rev. John McNames [?]
               
               
                  Ocky Lancaster & Maria Weaver
                  2-13-1821
                  
                  
               
               
                  
                     Robert Boyd & Narcissa Stinson
                  2-21-1821
                  2-22-1821
                  
                            Rev. John Beard
                        
               
               
               
                  Joseph Stevens & Anna Stevens
                  2-27-1821
                  2-27-1821
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  Joshua Eliason & Phebe Smithson
                  3-5-1821 5-8-1821
                  Rev. Isaac Cotton
               
               
                  Abner Bradbury & Mary Boyd
                  3-6-1821
                  3-8-1821
                  Rev. Samuel Boyd
               
               
                  William Mittan [Milton] & Patiance Rush
                  3-8-1821
                  3-13[?]-1821
                  Edward Starbuck, Esq.
               
               
                  Lewis Marrow [Levi Morrow?] & Catherine Bandy [Bundy?]
                  3-9-1821
                  3-11-1821
                  Rev Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  Elijah Hays [Hayes?] & Elizabeth Brown
                  3-12-1821
                  3-15-1821
                  Rev. Isaac Cotton p. 41
               
               
                  John Thompson & Hannah Braden
                  3-9-1821
                  3-11-1821
                  Joseph Harrison, Esq.
               
               
                  Reder Powel [Reeder Powell?]* & Elizabeth Milmon [Millman]
                  3-13-1821
                  3-15-1821
                  Rev. Samuel Taylor
               
               
                  John Baldridge & Margret Fox
                  3-13-1821
                  3-15-1821
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  Milow Wilson & Sarah Coy
                  3-22-1821
                  3-22-1821
                  Rev. Samuel Taylor
               
               
                  John Roberts & Hannah Coffman
                  3-23-1821
                  3-26-1821
                  Jacob N. Booker, Esq.
               
               
                  Jediah Johnson & Delia [?] Ballard
                  3-26-1821
                  4-3 1821
                  Barnabus McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  Thomas Moore & Harriett Willetts
                  3-27-1821
                  3-30-1821
                  Levi Willetts, Esq.
               
               
                  Jonathan Fender & Nancy Black
                  4-2-1821
                  4-5-1821
                  Rev. Hugh Cull
               
               
                  William Whitsinger & Mary Whitsinger
                  4-6-1821
                  4-12-1821
                  Rev. Hugh Cull p. 42
               
               
                  Joseph Campbell & Sarah Walker
                  4-7-1821
                  
                  "no return"
               
               
                  William Powell & Sarah Reeder
                  4-11-1821
                  4-12-1821
                  Rev. Samuel Taylor
               
               
                  Isaac Drury & Hannah Rees
                  4-12-1821
                  4-20-1821
                  Levi Willetts, Esq.
               
               
                  Havens Gray & Nephthaline Carter
                  4-12-1821
                  
                  "no return"
               
               
                  Henry Long & Mary Rollins [Collins]*
                  
                  
                  4-5-1821
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  John Shortridge & Ann Crum
                  5-8-1821
                  5-10-1821
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  Edward Benbow & Mary Richardson
                  5-8-1821
                  5-18-1821
                  Rev. Samuel Taylor
               
               
                  George Johnson & Marian Huff
                  5-14-1821
                  5-17-1821
                  Barnabus McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  Nathaniel Harlan & Sarah Anderson
                  5-27-1821
                  5-7[?]-1821
                  Joseph Harrison, p. 43 Esq.
               
               
               
                  Robert Sleeth [Slieth?]* & Mary Comblin [Camplin?]
                  5-29-1821
                  5-29-1821
                  Rev. James Benefield
               
               
                  Jesse Dobbins & Elizabeth Chappell
                  6-1-1821
                  6-3-1821
                  Rev. Hugh Cull
               
               
                  Lot Abrams & Rosanna Miller
                  6-2-1821
                  6-17-1821
                  Daniel Clark, Esq.
               
               
                  Samuel Tweeday & Nancy Skidmore
                  2-12-1821
                  2-15-1821
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  John Vanbuskirk & Dulsena Huff
                  6-12-1821
                  6-13-1821
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  Nathan Abbott & Peggy Coy
                  6-20-1821
                  7-16-1821
                  Samuel Boyd [Sr.?], Esq.
               
               
                  John Russell & Polly Smith
                  6-19-1821
                  8-30-1821
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Peter Groenendike & Hannah Beard
                  6-26-1821
                  6-28-1821
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  Ovid Boon & Ruth Baltimore
                  6-27-1821
                  6-28-1821
                  Rev. Smauel Taylor p. 44
               
               
                  William Mitchell & Margarett Brown
                  7-7-1821
                  7-7-1821
                  Rev. Daniol Fraley
               
               
                  Peter Crum & Mary Nation [Mition]*
                  
                  7-25-1821
                  7-26-1821
                  Rev. Henry Logan
               
               
                  Barton Wyatt & Sally Miller
                  7-7-1821
                  7-12-1821
                  Rev. William Williams
               
               
                  Isaiah Low & Naoma Lamb [Lain?]*
                  
                  8-10-1821
                  8-12-1821
                  Barnabus McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  Jonas Hatfield & Tabitha Neal
                  8-14-1821
                  8-17-1821
                  Rev. Isaac Cotton
               
               
                  Cyrus Finch & Theresa A. Booker
                  8-16-1821
                  8-16-1821
                  Lawrence H. Branum, Esq.
               
               
                  Richmond Harwood & Esther Tharp
                  8-18-1821
                  
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  Daniel Bradbury & May Elliott
                  8-20-1821
                  8-24-1821
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  Thomas Leverton & Lydia Dwiggins
                  8-16-1821
                  8-21-1821
                  Edward Starbuck, Esq. p. 45
               
               
                  Ellwood Elliott & Sarah Gailbraith
                  6-13-1821
                  6-14-1821
                  Rev. Isaac Cotton
               
               
                  James Bowman & Betsy Watts
                  8-25-1821
                  8-30-1821
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Alfies [Alpheus?] Wright & Elizabeth Williams [Elliott?]*
                  
                  8-29-1821
                  8-30-1821
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  Andrew Gallaspy [Gillespie] & Maernerya [Minerva?] Nichols
                  8-29-1821
                  8-30-1821
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  Nathaniel McKinney & Mary Milmon [Millman?]
                  9-1-1821
                  
                  Rev. Samuel Taylor
               
               
               
                  Nathan Hunt & Hepsy Swain
                  8-25-1821
                  8-26-1821
                  Edward Starbuck, Esq.
               
               
                  Joel Jeffery & Hannah Case
                  8-29-1821
                  
                  
               
               
                  Thomas Baldridge & Anna Morgan
                  9-4-1821
                  
                  
               
               
                  Samuel Drury & Polly Boswell
                  9-4-1821
                  
                  "no return" p. 46
               
               
                  William Armstrong & Rachel Bright
                  9-12-1821
                  9-19-1821
                  Rev. Isaac Cotton
               
               
                  Henry Hunt & Elizabeth Roberts
                  9-[?]-1821
                  9-16-1821
                  Solomon Thomas, Esq.
               
               
                  Thomas Taylor & Sarah Alberts
                  9-[?]-1821
                  9-18-1821
                  Edwards Starbuck, Esq.
               
               
                  Israel Elliott & Nancy [?] Lamb
                  9-29-1821
                  10-4-1821
                  Rev. Joseph Harlan[?]
               
               
                  John James & Creasy Hunt
                  10-2-1821
                  9[?]-4-1821
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Samuel Brown & Susan Stout
                  10-6-1821
                  10-11-1821
                  Barnabus McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  John Edwards & Malinda Jacobs
                  10-13-1821
                  10-18-1821
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Joseph Skinner & Diedema Elliott
                  10-16-1821
                  10-29-1821
                  John C. Kibbey, Esq.
               
               
                  Daniel Osborn & Mary Washington
                  10-23-1821
                  10-28-1821
                  Rev. Hugh Cull p. 47
               
               
                  Josiah Grinslade & Betsy Smith
                  10-20-1821
                  10-25-1821
                  Adam Boyd. Esq.
               
               
                  William L. Hall & Susanna Raper [Roper?]
                  10-23-1821
                  10-25-1821
                  Solomon Thomas, Esq.
               
               
                  Christopher Rush & Liddy Bunch
                  10-24-1821
                  10-25-1821
                  Eleazer Hiatt, Esq.
               
               
                  Edward McBrom [McBrown?] & Peggy Cain
                  10-27-1821
                  10-29-1821
                  John C. Kibbey, Esq.
               
               
                  James Matinlee [Mattingly?] & Elizabeth Horleux [Harlen]*
                  
                  10-27-1821
                  10-28-1821
                  Rev. John Smith
               
               
                  James Brown & Elizabeth Pope
                  10-26-1821
                  11-20-1821
                  John C. Kibbey, Esq.
               
               
                  Oliver H. Smith & Mary Crumbfield [Brumfield?]
                  11-1-1821
                  11-6-1821
                  Rev. Isaac Cotton
               
               
                  Thomas Brumfield & Mary Crawford
                  11-10-1821
                  11-12-1821
                  Jacob N. Booker, Esq.
               
               
                  Nathaniel Herington & Nancy A. McDonald
                  11-11-18821
                  11-11-1821
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley p. 48
               
               
                  John Park & Harriett Jobs
                  11-13-1821
                  11-15-1821
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
               
                  Alexander Lantz [Lutz, Lautz, Suitz?]* & Sarah Stout
                  11-18-1821
                  11-21-1821
                  Rev. Samuel Taylor
               
               
                  William Bratten & Catherine Senn [Ginn, Seany?]
                  11-23-1821
                  11-25-1821
                  Daniel Clark, Esq.
               
               
                  Gideon Harrison & Sally Wiley
                  11-17-1821
                  11-18-1821
                  Edward Starbuck, Esq.
               
               
                  David Morton & Ellen Stedum [Stedham?]
                  11-17-1821
                  11-20-1821
                  John C. Kibbey, Esq.
               
               
                  Alfred Lawman & Hannah McDonald
                  11-19-1821
                  11-22-1821
                  Daniel Fraley, Esq.
               
               
                  Joseph White & Alice Clawson
                  11-19-1821
                  11-20-1821
                  John C. Kibbey, Esq.
               
               
                  John Lewis & Polly Beshong [Bushong?]
                  11-29-1821
                  11-29-1821
                  Jacob N. Booker, Esq.
               
               
                  Benjamin Branson & Molly [Matty?] Cotton
                  12-1-1821
                  12-2-1821
                  Rev. Samuel Taylor p. 49
               
               
                  Rice Price & Susanna Keesling
                  12-6-1821
                  12-13-1821
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Daniel Lawman & Abey Vorhas [Vorhis, Voorhees, Vorhaz]*
                  
                  12-13-1821
                  12-13-1821
                  Rev. Isaac Cotton
               
               
                  Micah Newby & Mary D. Coffin
                  12-17-1821
                  12-17-1821
                  Jacob N. Booker, Esq.
               
               
                  Charles Conway & Louisa [Laura?]* Roe
                  12-18-1821
                  12-20-1821
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  John Milner & Nancy Case
                  12-16-1821
                  12-17-1821
                  Rev. Isaac Cotton
               
               
                  Benjamin Piggott (Pickett?] & Deborough D. Clark
                  11-29-1821
                  
                  
               
               
                  James Smith & Mary Massay
                  12-15-1821
                  
                  
               
               
                  William Moore & Betsy Edwards
                  12-18-1821
                  12-20-1821
                  Daniel Clark, Esq.
               
               
                  Samuel Simmons [Symmons, Simons?]* & Amy Bunch
                  12-17-1821
                  1-19-1821
                  Edward Starbuck, Esq. p. 50
               
               
                  Samuel Dill & Rachel Cain
                  12-19-1821
                  12-20-1821
                  John C. Kibbey, Esq.
               
               
                  John Treadway & Sally Vanbuskirk
                  12-22-1821
                  12-23-1821
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  William Elliott & Sarah Swoap [Swope?]
                  12-29-1821
                  12-30-1821
                  Isaiah Bradbury, Esq.
               
               
                  James Morgan & Nancy Mabbitt
                  12-23-1821
                  12-27-1821
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Landy Rector & Lavina Chryst
                  12-27-1821
                  
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
               
                  Abraham Miller & Polly Little
                  12-31-1821
                  
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  John Vanbuskirk & Jane Powell
                  1-6[?]-1822
                  1-19-1822
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  Benjamin Harris & Lydia Hiatt
                  12-24-1821
                  12-27-1822
                  Edward Starbuck, Esq. p. 51
               
               
                  Amos Small & Rachel Hiatt
                  12-28-1821
                  1-1-1822
                  Edward Starbuck, Esq.
               
               
                  Findly Sharp & Elizabeth Carpenter
                  1-8-1822
                  
                  
               
               
                  Richard Henderson & Margaret Hunt
                  1-8-1822
                  1-9-1822
                  John C. Kibbey, Esq.
               
               
                  James Carr & Susanah Hunt
                  1-8-1822
                  1-9-1822
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  Charles Logan & Sarah Benna [?]
                  1-16-1822
                  
                  Barnabus McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  Daniel Puckett & Rebekah Cook
                  1-14-1822
                  1-17-1822
                  Edward Starbuck, Esq.
               
               
                  Lazarus Whitehead & Levona Osburn
                  1-12-1822
                  1-24-1822
                  Isaac Esteb, Esq.
               
               
                  Seth [?] Nation & Charlotte Nation
                  1-22-1822
                  1-24-1822
                  Rev. Henry Logan
               
               
                  Robert Brewer & Sarah Fife
                  1-22-1822
                  1-13-1822
                  Rev. Samuel Taylor p. 52
               
               
                  Price Russell & Anna Hays [Hayes?]
                  1-25-1822
                  
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  William Burkley & Margrette Hann [?]
                  1-30-1822
                  1-31-1822
                  William Pattison, Esq.
               
               
                  James Powell & Sarah Jessup
                  1-30-1822
                  1-30-1822
                  Josiah Bradbury, Esq.
               
               
                  Henry Stump & Sarah Canada
                  1-31-1822
                  1-31-1822
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  John Clevison [?] & Isabel Grewell
                  2-31-1822
                  
                  Rev. John Banks
               
               
                  William Brown & Sarah Martindale
                  2-5-1822
                  2-23-1822
                  Rev. Isaac Cotton
               
               
                  Thomas Martindale & Rebecca Martindale
                  2-5-1822
                  2-18-1822
                  Rev. Isaac Cotton
               
               
                  Isaac Carter & Sally Foreman
                  2-1-1822
                  2-7-1822
                  Isaac Booker, Esq.
               
               
                  William Thompson & Sarah Braden5
                  
                  2-6-1822
                  2-9-1822
                  Joseph Harrison, Esq. p. 53
               
               
                  Thomas Smith & Esther Hiatt
                  2-5-1822
                  2-10-1822
                  Rev. Hugh Cull
               
               
                  Daniel James & Ursula Elliott
                  2-10-1822
                  2-21-1822
                  Edward Starbuck, Esq.
               
               
                  William Berry & Nancy Gray
                  2-13-1822
                  2-14-1822
                  Levi Willetts, Esq.
               
            
            
               
                  5 The record of this marriage appears in Volume A as page 55 instead of
                        page 53.
            
            
            
               
                  Hugh Carroll6 & Sarah Hobson
                  2-19-1822
                  
                  
               
               
                  Benjaman Hall [Hale?]* & Nancy Roberts
                  2-19-1822
                  2-21-1822
                  Josiah Bradbury, Esq.
               
               
                  Henry Shoemaker & Edith Elliott
                  2-21-1822
                  2-21-1822
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  Elihu Ellis & Elizabeth Alderson
                  2-27-1822
                  2-28-1822
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  John Draper & Patsy Palmer
                  3-11-1822
                  3-11-1822
                  Rev. John Beard [?]
               
               
                  Miles C. Eggleston & Elizabeth Sutherland
                  3-10-1822
                  3-10-1822
                  Jesse Davenport, Esq. p. 54
               
               
                  Ezekial Springer & Betsy Thompson
                  11-5-1822
                  
                  Joseph Harrison, Esq.
               
               
                  James James & Mary Rambo [?]
                  3-14-1822
                  3-17-1822
                  Rev. William Stubs
               
               
                  Seth Beals [Bales?] & Susana Lewis
                  3-13-1822
                  
                  Rev. Samuel Taylor
               
               
                  James Burgess & Therissa Weaver
                  3-18-1822
                  3-21-1822
                  Rev. Hugh Cull
               
               
                  Abraham Vicker & Susana Holtsclaw
                  3-20-1822
                  3-23-1822
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  Daniel Higgins & Mary Houl [Howell?]
                  3-23-1822
                  3-28-1822
                  Adam Banks, Esq.
               
               
                  William Pugh & Eliza Dunham
                  3-18-1822
                  3-20-1822
                  John C. Kibbey, Esq.
               
               
                  John Whitchel [White- sell, Whitehill?] & Catherine Hidy [Hiday?]
                  3-25-1822
                  3-25-1822
                  Jacob N. Booker, Esq.
               
               
                  Samuel Creviston & Harriett Willets
                  3-26-1822
                  3-28-1822
                  Levi Willets, Esq. p. 55
               
               
                  Samuel Stinson & Elizabeth Worl [Worrell, Wall?]*
                  
                  3-26-1822
                  3-31-1822
                  Josiah Bradbury, Esq.
               
               
                  Zadock Williams & Anna Marine
                  3-30-1822
                  4-10-1822
                  Josiah Bradbury, Esq.
               
               
                  John Jobs & Polly Padgett
                  3-30-1822
                  3[?]-5-1822
                  Jacob Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  Isaac McKeever & Kesiah Baltimore
                  4-1-1822
                  
                  
               
               
                  Joseph Longacre & Nancy Peerson [Pierson, Pearson?]
                  4-2-1822
                  4-4-1822
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  Jesse Bond & Mary Vore
                  4-2-1822
                  
                  
               
               
                  John Skinner & Volinda Griffins
                  4-8-1822
                  4-9-1822
                  Caleb Lewis, Esq.
               
            
            
               6 This name is recorded in Volume A as Carroll Hugh instead of Hugh Carroll.
            
            
            
               
                  Charles F. Reed & Sarah Black
                  4-10-1822
                  4-11-1822
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  Jesse Allison & Isophena Reynolds
                  4-16-1822
                  4-18-1822
                  Rev. John Beard p. 56
               
               
                  John Chryst & Catherine Hoover
                  4-20-1822
                  6-15-1822
                  Rev. Adam Banks
               
               
                  Ichabod Gifford & Betsy Addington
                  4-15-1822
                  4-18-1822
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  William Underhill & Ruth Mathers [Matthews?]
                  4-18-1822
                  4-23-1822
                  Barnabus McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  Mark Davice [Davis?] & Rebecca Osburn
                  4-22-1822
                  5-27-1822
                  Rev. Samuel Taylor
               
               
                  John Benefield & Esther Benefield
                  4-26-1822
                  4-28-1822
                  Joseph Flint, Esq.
               
               
                  Jacob Dehaven & Juliett Denny
                  4-29-1822
                  5-12-1822
                  Rev. Daniel Fraley
               
               
                  Zadock Dougherty & Mary Willyard
                  4-29-1822
                  5-2-1822
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  John Briggs & Patsy Greenstreet
                  5-4-1822
                  5-10-1822
                  Samuel Taylor, Esq.
               
               
                  Jesse Thornburgh & Margrett Warren
                  5-12-1822
                  5-13-1822
                  Rev. Samuel Taylor p. 57
               
               
                  John P. Williams & Sarah Hetherington [Witherington]*
                  
                  5-17-1822
                  5-21-1822
                  Rev. James Benefield
               
               
                  Daniel King & Mariah McCollister
                  5-25-1822
                  5-28-1822
                  Daniel Fraley, Esq.
               
               
                  James Andrews & Sarah Whitehead
                  
                  6-2-1822
                  Eleazer [?] Hiatt, Esq.
               
               
                  Thornburg Mabbitt & Susannah Smith
                  6-4-1822
                  6-6-1822
                  Rev. Hugh Cull
               
               
                  Levi Stratton & Ruth Crews
                  6-8-1822
                  6-13-1822
                  Adam Boyd, Esq.
               
               
                  Exum Pearson & Elizabeth Ratliff
                  6-5-1822
                  6-10-1822
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  John Pearson & Anna Small
                  6-17-1822
                  6-23-1822
                  Jacob Hoover, Esq.
               
               
                  Richard Brown & Barbary Caffill
                  6-22-1822
                  6-22-1822
                  Jacob N. Booker, Esq.
               
               
                  William Cooper & Elizabeth English
                  5-7-1822
                  5-7-1822
                  Rev. Adam Banks p. 58
               
               
                  Eli Smithey [Smiley?] & Mary Willis
                  5-8-1822
                  5-12-1822
                  Barnabus McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  William Way & Elizabeth Palmer
                  5-13-1822
                  5-14-1822
                  Barnabus McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  Andrew Veal & Delia Kendle [Kendall?*
                  
                  6-24-1822
                  6-27-1822
                  Rev. Samuel Taylor
               
               
                  Joshua Cloyd & Edy Sutherland
                  6-24-1822
                  6-27-1822
                  Jacob Hoover, Esq.
               
               
               
                  Hoel T. Spencer & Elizabeth Hiare [Hire, Thare?]*
                  
                  6-29-1822
                  6-?-1822
                  Rev. Samuel Taylor
               
               
                  Eli Mills & Elizabeth Gray
                  7-3-1822
                  7-3-1822
                  Jacob N. Booker, Esq.
               
               
                  Marisse [Maurice?] Foreman & Mary Sanders
                  7-4-1822
                  7-4-1822
                  Rev. Adam Banks
               
               
                  Filander Fowler & Mariam Luse [Lutz?]
                  7-4-1822
                  7-4-1822
                  Rev. Adam Banks p. 59
               
               
                  John Duriala [?] & Eliza A. Ward
                  7-8-1822
                  7-14-1822
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  Drury Davis & Polly Bunworth
                  7-6-1822
                  7-11-1822
                  Barnabus McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  Parnelle Bails [Bales?] & Elizabeth Koons
                  7-13-1822
                  7-14-1822
                  Rev. Samuel Taylor
               
               
                  Jacob Hoover & Sally Waymire
                  7-13-1822
                  
                  
               
               
                  Gideon Myers & Catharine Crull
                  7-22-1822
                  7-25-1822
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  Thomas Brumfield & Sarah Brumfield
                  7-8-1822
                  7-8-1822
                  Rev. Isaac Cotton
               
               
                  Nicholas Friend & Mary Hains
                  7-18-1822
                  7-18-1822
                  Barnabus McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  Thomas Starlin & Frances Porter7
                  
                  7-25-1822
                  7-27-1822
                  Barnabus McManus, p. 60 Esq.
               
               
                  Joseph G. Cooper & Elizabeth Leonard
                  8-5-1822
                  8-8-1822
                  Rev. John Beard
               
               
                  Jesse Beeman & Letty Crampton
                  8-5-1822
                  8-5-1822
                  John C. Kibbey, Esq.
               
               
                  William Moffit & Mary Gunn
                  8-8-1822
                  8-8-1822
                  Caleb Lewis, Esq.
               
               
                  Reuben Bentley & Sarah Hill
                  8-13-1822
                  8-14-1822
                  John C. Kibbey, Esq.
               
               
                  William Cotton & Mariah Vorhis
                  8-14-1822
                  8-15-1822
                  Rev. Samuel Taylor
               
               
                  Stephen Mendenhall & Mary H. Spray
                  8-17-1822
                  8-18-1822
                  Barnabus McManus, Esq.
               
               
                  James McKinney & Susana Adamson
                  9-11-1822
                  9-12-1822
                  Rev. Samuel Taylor
               
            
            INDEX OF NAMES
            
               Abbott, Nathan,
               Abrams, Lot, 43
               Adams, John, 31
               Adams, Nancy, 34
               Adamson, Susanah, 60
               Addington, Betsy, 56
               Alberts, Sarah, 46
               Alderson, Elizabeth, 53
               Allen, Sally, 36
               Allen, Thomas, 38
               Allison, Jesse, 56
               Anderson, Betsy, 36
            
            
               
                  7 The record of this marriage is indicated in Volume A as page 59 instead
                        of page 60.
            
            
            
               Anderson, Sarah, 43
               Andrews, James, 57
               Armstrong, William, 46
               Asher, Pennina, 32
               Bails, Parnelle, 59
               Baldridge, John, 41
               Baldridge, Thomas, 45
               Bales (see Bails)
               Ballard, Delia, 41
               Baltimore, Kesiah, 55
               Baltimore, Ruth, 44
               Bandy (?), Catherine, 40
               Beals, Seth, 54
               Beard, Hannah, 43
               Beeman, Jesse, 60
               Benbow, Edward, 42
               Benefield, Esther, 56
               Benefield, John, 34, 56
               Benna (?), Sarah, 51
               Bentley, Reuben, 60
               Bentley, Ruth, 34
               Berry, William, 53
               Beshong (?), Polly, 48
               Black, Nancy, 41
               Black, Sarah, 55
               Bond, Jesse, 55
               Booker, Theresa A., 44
               Boon, Ovid, 44
               Boswell, Polly, 46
               Bowman, James 45
               Boyd, Mary, 40
               Boyd, Robert, 40
               Bradbury', Abner, 40
               Bradbury, Daniel, 44
               Braden, Hannah, 41
               Braden, Sarah, 53
               Brannon, Kezia, 37
               Branson, Benjamin, 49
               Branum (see Brannon)
               Bratten, William, 48
               Brewer, Bryant, 31
               Brewer, Robert, 52
               Briggs, Eliza, 31
               Briggs, John, 56
               Bright, Rachel, 46
               Brown, Elizabeth, 41
               Brown, James, 47
               Brown, John, 39
               Brown, Joseph, 37
               Brown, Margarett, 44
               Brown, Richard, 57
               Brown, Samuel, 46
               Brown, Thomas, 37
               Brown, William, 52
               Browne, Elizabeth, 35
               Brumfield, Sarah, 59
               Brumfield, Thomas, 47, 59
               Brumfield (see also Crumbfield)
               Bunch, Amy, 50
               Bunch, Liddy, 47
               Bundy (see Bandy)
               Bunworth, Polly, 59
               Burckhalter, Cason, 40
               Burgess, James, 54
               Burkley, William, 52
               Bushong (see Beshong)
               Caff ill (?), Barbary, 57
               Cain, Nancy, 50
               Cain, Peggy, 47
               Cain, Rachel, 50
               Calaway, James, 37
               Caldwell, Davies, 35
               Campbell, Joseph, 42
               Camplin (see Comblin)
               Canada, Sarah, 52
               anaday, John, 33
               Canaday, William, 38
               Canady, Margaret, 35
               Carpenter, Elizabeth, 51
               Carr, James, 51
               Carroll, Hugh, 53
               Carter, Isaac, 52
               Carter, Nephthaline, 42
               Cartwright, Elizabeth, 31
               Case, Hannah, 45
               Case, Nancy, 49
               Chambers, Mahala, 37
               Chappell, Elizabeth, 43
               Chryst, John, 56
               Chryst, Lavina, 50
               Clawson, Alice, 48
               Clawson, Josiah, 33
               Clawson (see also Clevison)
               Clark, Deborough D., 49
               Clark, John, 32
               Clevison (?), John, 52
               Cloyd, Joshua, 58
               Coffin, Mary D., 49
               
               Coffman, Hannah, 41
               Collins (see Rollins)
               Comblin (?), Mary, 43
               Comer, Joseph, 31
               Conway, Charles, 49
               Cook, Anna, 35
               Cook, Rebekah, 51
               Cooper, Joseph G., 60
               Cooper, Matilda, 37
               Cooper, William, 58
               Cope, Mary, 37
               Cotton, Molly (?), 49
               Cotton, William, 60
               Coy, Peggy, 43
               Coy, Sarah, 41
               Crampton, Letty, 60
               Cratzner (see Kratzer)
               Crawford, Mary, 47
               Crews, Rebekah, 32
               Crews, Ruth, 57
               Creviston, Samuel, 55
               Crist (seeChryst)
               Crouch, Amelia, 33
               Crow, Abel, 36
               Crull, Catharine, 59
               Crum, Ann, 42
               Crum, Peter, 44
               Crumbfield (?), Mary, 47
               Cuppy, Thomas, 34
               Davice, Mark, 56
               Davis, Drury, 59
               Dawson, Eli, 32
               Dehaven, Jacob, 56
               Denny, Juliett, 56
               Dewey (see Doey)
               Dill, Samuel, 50
               Dixon, James, 31
               Dobbins, Jesse, 43
               Doey, Sarah, 35
               Dollerhide, Sarah, 31
               Dougherty, Zadock, 56
               Draper, John, 53
               Drury, Isaac, 42
               Drury, Samuel, 46
               Dunham, Eliza, 54
               Duriala (?), John, 59
               Dwiggins, Lydia, 45
               Eaton, William, 38
               Edwards, Betsy, 49
               Edwards, John, 46
               Eggleston, Miles C, 54
               Eliason, Joshua, 40
               Elliott, Diedema, 46
               Elliott, Edith, 53
               Elliott, Ellwood, 45
               Elliott, Israel, 46
               Elliott, May, 44
               Elliott, Sarah, 35
               Elliott, Stephen, 35
               Elliott, Ursula, 53
               Elliott, William, 50
               Ellis, Elihu, 53
               Endsley, Peter, 31
               English, Elizabeth, 58
               Parlow, John, 34
               Pelton, Eliza, 39
               Felton, Robert, 39
               Fender, Jonathan, 41
               Fife, Sarah, 52
               Finch, Cyrus, 44
               Flick, Phillip, 31
               Foreman, Marisse (?), 58
               Foreman, Sally, 52
               Fowler, Filander, 59
               Fox, Margret, 41
               Friend, Nicholas, 59
               Gail, William, 35
               Gailbraith, Sarah, 45
               Gallaspy (?), Andrew, 45
               Gard, Phebe, 38
               Garner, Vincent, 36
               Garret, Thomas, 36
               Gifford, Ichabod, 56
               Gillespie (see Gallaspy)
               Ginn, Pheby, 39
               Ginn (see also Senn)
               Gray, Elizabeth, 58
               Gray, Havens, 42
               Gray, Nancy, 53
               Gray, Sophia, 36
               Greenstreet, Patsy, 56
               Grewell, Isabel, 52
               Griffins, Volinda, 55
               Grinslade, Josiah, 47
               Groenendike, Peter, 43
               Gunn, Mary, 60
               
               Hains, Mary, 59
               Hall, Benjamin, 53
               Hall, William L., 47
               Hann, Margrette, 52
               Harlan, Nathaniel, 43
               Harlan, Samuel, 35
               Harlow (see Horleux)
               Harper, John, 33
               Harris, Benjamin, 51
               Harris, William T., 39
               Harrison, Gideon, 48
               Harshfield, John, 33
               Hart, Polly, 34
               Harvey, James, 35
               Harwood, Richmond, 44
               Hatfield, Jonas, 44
               Hayes (see Hays)
               Hays, Anna, 52
               Hays, Elijah, 41
               Henderson, Richard, 51
               Henwood, John, 31
               Herington, Nathaniel, 48
               Hetherington, Sarah, 57
               Hiare (?), Elizabeth, 58
               Hiatt, Esther, 53
               Hiatt, Lydia, 51
               Hiatt, Rachel, 51
               Hiatt (see also Hiott)
               Hidy, Catherine, 54
               Higgins, Daniel, 54
               Hill, Jane, 40
               Hill, Sarah, 60
               Hinkle, Rebekah, 31
               Hiott, Esther, 36
               Hiott, David, 34
               Hiott, Josiah, 36
               Hiott, Lavina, 34
               Hiott (see also Hiatt)
               Hire (see Hiare)
               Hobson, Sarah, 53
               Holman, Rebecca, 38
               Holtsclaw, Susana, 54
               Hoover, Catherine, 56
               Hoover, Jacob, 59
               Horleux (?), Elizabeth, 47
               Houel, Mary, 54
               Hough (see Huff)
               Howard, John, 37
               Howell (see Houel)
               Hubbard, Silas, 36
               Huff, Dulsena, 43
               Huff, Marian, 42
               Hughes (see Hughs)
               Hughs, William, 32
               Hunt, Creasy, 46
               Hunt, Henry, 46
               Hunt, Margaret, 51
               Hunt, Nathan, 45
               Hunt, Susanah, 51
               Jacobs, Malinda, 46
               James, Daniel, 53
               James, Isaac, 38
               James, James, 54
               Jamison, Jane, 32
               Jeffery, Joel, 45
               Jessup, Sarah, 52
               Jobe, Lydla, 39
               Jobs, John, 55
               Jobs, Harriett, 48
               Johnson, George, 42
               Johnson, Jediah, 41
               Jones, Richard, 31
               Jordan, William, 37
               Justice, James, 36
               Keesling, Susanna, 49
               Kendall (see Kendle)
               Kendle, Delia, 58
               Kennedy (see Canada)
               King, Daniel, 57
               King, Elisha, 32
               Kline, Jacob, 39
               Knapp, Julia, 34
               Knight, Loyd, 38
               Koons, Elizabeth, 59
               Kratzer,. Eliza, 33
               Lain (see Lamb)
               Lamb, Barnabas, 34
               Lamb, Mayomy (?), 35
               Lamb, Nancy (?), 46
               Lamb (?), Naoma, 44
               Lancaster, Ocky, 40
               Landers, Samuel, 33
               Lantz (?), Alexander, 48
               Lawman, Alfred, 48
               Lawman, Daniel, 49
               Lautz (see Lantz)
               Leonard, Elizabeth, 60
               
               Leverton, Thomas, 45
               Lewis, John, 48
               Lewis, Priscilla, 38
               Lewis, Susana, 54
               Little, Hannah, 34
               Little, Polly, 50
               Logan, Charles, 51
               Long, Henry, 42
               Longacre, Joseph, 55
               Low, Isaiah, 44
               Luce, Mathias, 33
               Lutz (see Lantz)
               Lybrook, Sally, 36
               Lyons, Daniel, 34
               McAllister (see McCollister)
               McBrom (?), Edward, 47
               McBrown (see McBrom)
               McClain, Sarah, 33
               McCollister, Mariah, 57
               McDonald, Hannah, 48
               McDonald, Nancy A., 48
               McGraw, Sally, 33
               McKee, Nancy, 33
               McKee, Tabor, 35
               McKeever, Isaac, 55
               McKinney, James, 60
               McKinney, Lylly, 31
               McKinney, Nathaniel, 45
               McLane (see McClain)
               Mabbit, Nancy, 50
               Mabbitt, Thornburg, 57
               Mabit, Anthony, 35
               Macy, Phebe, 40
               Marine, Anna, 55
               Markle, John, 36
               Marrow (?), Lewis (?), 40
               Martindale, David, 38
               Martindale, Rachel, 36
               Martindale, Rebecca, 52
               Martindale, Sarah, 52
               Martindale, Thomas, 52
               Mason, James, 39
               Massay, Mary, 49
               Mathers, Ruth, 56
               Mathews (see Mathers)
               Matinlee, James, 47
               Mattingly (see Matinlee)
               Meek, Jeremiah, 35
               Mendenhall, Stephen, 60
               Miller, Abraham, 50
               Miller, Rosanna, 43
               Miller, Sally, 44
               Millman (see Milmon)
               Mills, Eli, 58
               Milmon, Elizabeth, 41
               Milmon, Mary, 45
               Milner, John, 49
               Milton (see Mittan)
               Miner, James, 31
               Mitchell, William, 44
               Mition (see Nation)
               Mittan, William, 40
               Moffit, William, 60
               Montgomery, Margaret, 38
               Moore, Aley, 34
               Moore, Thomas, 41
               Moore, William, 49
               Morgan, Anna, 45
               Morgan, James, 50
               Morgan, Mary, 32
               Morrow (see Marrow)
               Morton, David, 48
               Mundin, Rebekah, 37
               Myers, Gideon, 59
               Nation, Charlotte, 51
               Nation (?), Mary, 44
               Nation, Seth, 51
               Neal, Tabitha, 44
               Nelson, Mary, 39
               Newby, Micah, 49
               Nichols, Maernerya (?), 45
               Noland, Stephen, 34
               Osborn, Daniel, 47
               Osburn, Levona, 51
               Osburn, Rebecca, 56
               Owens, Melinda, 35
               Padgett, Polly, 55
               Palen, Nixon, 32
               Palmer, Elizabeth, 58
               Palmer, Patsy, 53
               Park, John, 48
               Paxon (see Paxson)
               Paxson, John, 37
               Pearson, Exum, 57
               
               Pearson, John, 57
               Peerson, Nancy, 55
               Pemberton, Thomas, 39
               Perry, Hannah, 33
               Pickett (see Piggott)
               Piggott, Benjamin, 49
               Platts, Elenor W., 37
               Pope, Elizabeth, 47
               Porter, Frances, 60
               Powel, Reder, 41
               Powell, James, 52
               Powell, Jane, 50
               Powell, William, 42
               Powers, John, 32
               Price, Rice, 49
               Puckett, Daniel, 51
               Pugh, William, 54
               Queen, Hampton, 32
               Ralston, Elizabeth, 32
               Rambo, Belinda, 32
               ambo, Mary, 54
               Ransford, Henry C, 37
               Raper (?), Susanna, 47
               Ratliff, Elizabeth, 57
               Ratliff, Rachel, 36
               Rector, Landy, 50
               Reed, Charles F., 55
               Reeder, Sarah, 42
               Rees, Hannah, 42
               Reynolds, Isophena, 56
               Rhods, Sandford, 34
               Richardson, Mary, 42
               Roberts, Elizabeth, 46
               Roberts, John, 41
               Roberts, Nancy, 53
               Roe, Louisa (?), 49
               Roe, Watson, 37
               Rollins, Mary, 42
               Roney (?), Nancy, 37
               Roper (see Raper)
               Rue, Eleanor, 37
               Rush, Christopher, 47
               Rush, Patiance, 40
               Russell, John, 43
               Russell, Price, 52
               Sanders, Mary, 58
               Sanders (see also Landers)
               Seany (see Senn)
               Seller, Margaret, 39
               Senn (?), Catherine, 48
               Sharp, John, 37
               Sharp, Findly, 51
               Shaw, Benjamin, 34
               Shipley, Rebecah, 39
               Shoemaker, Henry, 53
               Shortridge, John, 42
               Shureigh (?), Elizabeth, 33
               Simmons, Samuel, 50
               Simons (see Simmons)
               Skidmore, Nancy, 43
               Skinner, John, 55
               Skinner, Joseph, 46
               Sleeth, Robert, 43
               Slieth (see Sleeth)
               Small, Amos, 51
               Small, Anna, 57
               Small, Mary, 36
               Small, Miriam, 31
               Small, Penina, 35
               Smiley (see Smithey)
               Smith, Betsy, 47
               Smith, James, 49
               Smith, Nancy, 34
               Smith, Oliver H., 47
               Smith, Polly, 43
               Smith, Susannah, 57
               Smith, Thomas, 53
               Smithey (?), Eli, 58
               Smithson, Phebe, 40
               Spahrs (see Spotha)
               Spencer, Joel T., 58
               Spencer, Rozzel, 39
               Spotha (?), Rebeca, 31
               Spray, Abner, 35
               Spray, Mary H., 60
               Springer, Ezekial, 54
               Stanley, Catherine, 38
               Starbuck, William, 50
               Starlin, Thomas, 60
               Starrett, Robert, 38
               Staunton, Anna, 32
               Stedham (see Stedum)
               Stedum, Ellen, 48
               Stevens, Anna, 40
               Stevens, Joseph, 40
               Stillwell, Jeremiah, 38
               Stilwell, James, 32
               
               Stinson, Narcissa, 40
               Stinson, Samuel, 55
               Stout, Sarah, 48
               Stout, Susan, 46
               Strattan, Naomi, 38
               Stratton, Levi, 57
               Stretch, Elizabeth, 33
               Stump, Henry, 52
               Suitz (see Lantz)
               Sunderland (?), Rachel, 38
               Sutherland, Edy, 58
               Sutherland, Elizabeth, 54
               Sullivan, Kesiah, 39
               Summers, Rachel, 32
               Summers, Rebecca, 34
               Swain, Hepsy, 45
               Swoap, Sarah, 50
               Swope (see Swoap)
               Symons (see Simmons)
               Taylor, Thomas, 46
               Thare (see Hiare)
               Tharp, Esther, 44
               Thomas, Hannah, 31
               Thompson, Betsy, 54
               Thompson, John, 41
               Thompson, William, 53
               Thornburgh, Jesse, 57
               Toney, James, 36
               Toney (see Roney)
               Treadway, John, 50
               Tweeday, Samuel, 43
               Underhill, Hannah, 33
               Underhill, William, 56
               Vanbuskirk, John, 43, 50
               Vanbuskirk, Sally, 50
               Veal, Andrew, 58
               Vicker, Abraham, 54
               Vore, Mary, 55
               Vorhas, Abey, 49
               Vorhis, Mariah, 60
               Vorhees (see Vorhas, Vorhis)
               Walker, Elender, 38
               Walker, Sarah, 42
               Ward, David, 36
               Ward, Eliza A., 59
               Ward, Jemimah, 34
               Warman, Henry, 39
               Warren, Margrett, 57
               Washington, Mary, 47
               Watts, Betsy, 45
               Way, Henry, 40
               Way, William, 58
               Waymire, Sally, 59
               Weaver, Maria, 40
               Weaver, Therissa, 54
               West, Candis, 38
               Wharton, Rice, 33
               Whitchel (?), John, 54
               White, Joseph, 48
               Whitehead, Lazarus, 51
               Whitehead, Sarah, 57
               Whitehill (see Whitchel)
               Whitesell (see Whitchel)
               Whitsinger, Mary, 42
               Whitsinger, William, 42
               Wickard, John, 33
               Wiley, Sally, 48
               Willets, Harriett, 55
               Willets, James, 39
               Willetts, Harriett, 41
               Williams, Catherine, 35
               Williams, Elizabeth, 36, 45
               Williams, Hannah, 32
               Williams, Jesse, 34
               Williams, John P., 57
               Williams, William, 32
               Williams, Zadock, 55
               Willis, Mary, 58
               Willyard, Mary, 56
               Wilson, Milow, 41
               Witherington (see Hetherington)
               Woodkirk, John, 38
               Woods, Cynthia W., 37
               Woodward, Ann, 39
               Worl, Elizabeth, 55
               Worrel (see Worl, Worrill)
               Worrill, Jane, 39
               Wright, Alfies (?), 45
               Wright, James, 33
               Wright, Mary, 31
               Wyatt, Barton, 44
            
         
         
         
            Query 125: Hume(s) Family
            HUME (S). Thomas Hume, son of John and Mary (Barnett) Hume, b. Ap. 17, 1797, prob. in 
                        Harrisburg
                    , Pa., d. Aug. 6, 1842, 
                        Pike
                     Twp., 
                        Marion
                     Co., Ind., m. betw. Ap 15 and 20, 1826, 
                        Washington
                     Cov Ind., Elizabeth McCoy, dau. of Rev. James and Nancy (Lane) McCoy, b. Ap. 2, 1808,
                    Clark Co., Ind., d. Oc. 8, 1844, 
                        Pike
                     Twp., 
                        Marion
                     Co., Ind. His will (1842) provided for the education of his children but did not name
                    them. 1840 census shows an aged man (his father?) and 6 children in his household. The children
                    were: a boy and a girl b. bef. 1830; 2 boys b. betw. 1830 & 1835; 2 boys b. betw. 1835
                    & 1840. Probably none of the children were of age at the death of their parents and were
                    raised in homes of other relations. Information about them and their descendants wanted.
            Mrs. Sumner Hayward 224 Richards Road Ridgewood, 
                        New Jersey
                    
            
            Query 126: Wilson Family
            WILSON. Polly, Nancy and Isaac Wilson were named among the heirs of James McCoy, 
                        Washington
                     Co., Ind., 1833, and Isaiah Hornaday appointed their guardian. The part allotted them
                    in the settlement of McCoy's estate suggests that they were his grandchildren. No
                    Wilson-McCoy marriage has been found in 
                        Washington
                     Co. records, but 1830 census gives a clue. Jesse Wilson, betw. 30 & 40, lived
                    in the vicinit of James McCoy,, his household consisting of 2 girls betw. 5 & 10, one boy
                    under 5. Perhaps Jesse Wilson m. a dau. of James McCoy; she d. betw. 1825 & 1830 and he
                    betw. 1830 & 1833, leaving the three children to be raised by the McCoy grandparents.
                    Evidence may be found in 
                        Washington
                     Co. grave records or family Bibles. Further data on Polly, Nancy and Isaac Wilson
                    wanted, also names of their descendants.
            Mrs. Sumner Hayward 224 Richards Road Ridgewood, 
                        New Jersey
                    
            
         
         
         
            Special Offer of Back Numbers Of The Indiana Magazine Of History for Libraries, School Libraries,
                    and Personal Files.
            Libraries and persons who are now regular subscribers or who will become regular subscribers are
                    offered the opportunity of securing back numbers of the Indiana Magazine of
                    History at a low price. The earlier numbers of the Magazine are too rare to
                    be included in this offer, but numerous copies of many back issues which contain useful and valuable
                    articles and documentary material that should be included in every library in Indiana and in many
                    outside the state, and which may be desired by individual subscribers are now made available at a
                    greatly reduced price.
            Beginning with Volume XXIII (1927), the supply of existing numbers with the exception of three
                    issues, is sufficient that these numbers will be offered to our subscribers at twenty-five cents per
                    copy or one dollar per volume. The regular price has been fifty cents per copy or two dollars per
                    volume, and this price will be maintained where the sale is to nonsubscribers. The price of earlier
                    issues will remain at a dollar and a dollar and a half per copy or four dollars and six dollars per
                    volume, depending upon the scarcity of the individual number or volume.
            The editor reserves the right to withdraw this special price at any time. He also reserves the right
                    to withdraw it in respect to any issue when the surplus stock of that issue is exhausted.
            Useful articles are to be found in these issues of the Magazine. The following are
                    some of the important subjects: 
                  Abraham Lincoln
                  The Owens Family
                  James H. Lane
                  Amos Lane
                  Albert J. Beveridge
                  Daniel W. Vorhees
                  Jonathan Jennings
                  Edward Eggleston
                  
                     
                                Wabash
                             and Erie Canal
                  
                     
                                Michigan
                             Road
                  Foreigners and their Influence
                  Education
                  The Methodist Church
                  The Presbyterian Church
                  The Catholic Church
                  The Quakers
                  The Australian Ballot
                  Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
                  
                  
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                        
                  
                            
                                Vevay
                            
                        
                  The Indians
                  The Democratic Party
                   The Republican Party
               
            
            Some of the writers whose work is included in these issues of the Magazine will
                    include:
            
               Christopher B. Coleman
               George S. Cottman
               Louis B. Ewbank
               James Alton James
               Robert LaFollette
               Julie LeClerc Knox
               William 0. Lynch
               Thomas C. McAvoy
               Charles Roll
               Wendell H. Stephenson
               Florence G. Watts
               James A. Woodburn
            
            So many items on Abraham Lincoln have appeared in the Magazine that a special list
                    of them has been prepared and will be mailed to individuals interested in purchasing issues in which
                    these items appear.
            It is not now possible to supply a complete file of the Magazine but every effort
                    will be made to supply missing numbers for anyone trying to complete a file.
            Please address inquiries to the Editor, Indiana Magazine of History, Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
