
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 87, Issue 1, pages 1-115. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:87+issue:1+year:1991&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Commemorative Activity in Twentieth-Century 
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Invention of Civic Traditions
            John Bodnar∗
            Millions of citizens throughout the world have taken part in anniversary celebrations, centennials,
                    monument dedications, civic holidays, and other commemorative activities. Despite widespread public
                    participation, however, such events have generated little serious historical analysis. Most
                    participants and observers recognize that commemorative activities can involve traditional symbols
                    and messages from the past, enormous crowds, and extravagant expenditures of funds; but beyond such
                    general observations few are aware of the complex processes that generate and shape such functions.
            Sociologist William Lloyd Warner pioneered the analysis of commemorative activity in the 
                        United States
                    . In the final volume of his massive study of 
                        Newburyport
                    , 
                        Massachusetts
                    —or "
                        Yankee City
                    "—Warner devoted much attention to the uses of the past in the
                    present. Entitled The Living and the Dead: A Study of the Symbolic Life
                    of-Americans, the volume dealt with the symbolic representation of the past in civic rituals
                    such as the 
                        Newburyport
                     tercentenary celebration that was held in 1930. Warner was actually able to examine the
                    files of the local tercentenary planning group and to provide detailed descriptions of the floats
                    and the tableaus that expressed historical themes in the tercentenary parade.
            Although few historians have followed the thematic directions outlined in The Living and
                        the Dead, the account did make an extremely important point. Warner demonstrated that
                    events such as 
                  ∗ John Bodnar is professor of history and director of the Oral History Research
                            Center, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            . He is the author of Remaking America: Public Memory,
                                Commemorative Activity, and Patriotism in the Twentieth Century, soon to be
                            published by Princeton University Press. Research for this essay was funded in part by a
                            grant-in-aid for state and local history supported jointly by the Indiana Historical
                            Society, the American Association for State and Local History, and the National Endowment
                            for the Humanities.
                  Indiana MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXVII (March, 1991). ©1991, Trustees of Indiana
                            University.
               
                     the tercentenary parade did not emerge naturally from a public
                    perception of the past but were carefully planned by influential people who wanted to influence the
                    rest of society in specific ways. The "traditional symbols" or historical
                    representations that were prominent in the parade were not objective accounts of the past. Rather,
                    they were symbolic representations that met the needs of powerful people in the community, people
                    who wanted to preserve aspects of a past that reinforced and legitimated their own positions of
                    prominence and fostered notions of loyalty to leaders and existing institutions in the present.1
            
            Warner's study revealed the existence in 
                        Yankee City
                     of a "central committee" that was dominated by the old stock,
                    Protestant elite. It was this committee that selected the major themes expressed in some forty-three
                    floats or, as historians Terence O. Ranger and Eric Hobsbawm put it, that
                    "invented" the traditions and the memories that were meant to be shared by all.
                    Ethnic groups whose origins were more recent than those of the old stock residents in 
                        Newburyport
                     could sponsor floats only if they spoke to the theme of creating the American nation
                    and made a "dignified and trustworthy" presentation of the city's past.
                    Thus, the French Canadian float could depict not the story of the group's migration to 
                        New England
                     but the ceremonial visit of the Marquis de Lafayette to 
                        Newburyport
                     in 1824. Ultimately most of the floats in the parade focused on the Puritan origins of
                    the town and the creation of the American nation. Only three floats represented any post-Civil War
                    historical activity, and no floats depicted the migration experience that created most of the
                    town's ethnic communities.2
            
            Just how valid was Warner's argument? How frequently did commemorative activity reflect the
                    celebration of a past that served only the interests of powerful individuals and groups in a
                    community? An examination of commemoration in twentieth-century 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana, perhaps provides a partial answer. Not only does the Hoosier capital contain
                    impressive collections of monuments it also preserves long-held traditions of civic holidays.
                    Further, its newspapers offer a glimpse of the process of celebrating and honoring historic ideals
                    and symbols in a region very different from 
                        New England
                    .
            Prior to World War I two major themes dominated commemorative activity in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . One appeared to reflect a desire to reinforce citizens' sentiments of
                    national loyalty and patriotism. By fostering loyalty to national institutions, civic leaders
                    apparently hoped to foster loyalty to all institutions and to the men who 
                  
                     1 William Lloyd Warner, The Living and the Dead: A Study
                                of the Symbolic Life of Americans (
                                New Haven
                            , 
                                Conn.
                            , 1959), 116-34, 157.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid.; Terence O. Ranger and Eric Hobsbawm, eds., The
                                Invention of Tradition (
                                Cambridge
                            , 
                                Eng.
                            , 1983), 1-13.
               
                     administered them. The second theme involved the grief and sorrow
                    that ordinary people felt for friends and ancestors who had died in past wars. Ceremonies for the
                    dead not only reinforced historical messages that celebrated the notion of citizen sacrifice but
                    also represented a need to express a sense of loss and sorrow. Citizens of 
                        Indianapolis
                     also often used commemorative time and civic holidays to enjoy leisure-time activities
                    and did not discuss messages from the past at all. Thus, it appears that commemoration in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was partially what Warner suggested it was in 
                        Newburyport
                    , but it was also more complex.
            Celebrations on the Fourth of July provide good examples of the various interests that were
                    manifested during commemorative days. Prior to July, 1918, 
                        Indianapolis
                     officials seldom organized large solemn ceremonies to honor the origins of the nation
                    itself. Citizens often filled the streets of the city on the Fourth; but rather than marching in an
                    orderly fashion, they were busily going to amusement parks, picnics, or fireworks displays. One
                    observer in the city commented that he thought popular interest in horse racing and betting at the
                    state fairgrounds "overshadowed any celebration of the day." Another remarked that
                    the planning for the programs of the day had apparently been "left to a committee of
                    208,000," the approximate city population of the time.3
            
            During the initial decades of the twentieth century the most discussed issue concerning Fourth of
                    July celebrations was not the birth of the nation but the use of firecrackers in the streets. Many
                    officials not only decried the potential for injury and fire but also worried that use of these
                    explosives distracted citizens' attention from the patriotic significance of the day. A
                    local editor wrote that it was "barbarous" to celebrate a national birthday by
                    giving the "riotously inclined full liberty to make all the noise they cared to."
                    The writer feared that the "high and holy significance of the day on which a whole people
                    ventured life for liberty is lost in a senseless saturnalia of noise."4
                    City officials and some members of the professional classes such as ministers and businessmen did
                    not object to large displays of fireworks that were properly organized. When they argued for a
                    "safe and sane" celebration, they specifically directed their remarks against the
                    unregulated use of fireworks, an activity that they perceived to be the special preserve of young
                    boys and the foreign-born. In 1910 a local writer expressed his belief that boys were missing the
                    meaning of the day by playing with fireworks and suggested that they take part in neighborhood
                    historical pageants that would tell the story of Bunker Hill, Paul Revere, and
                    George Rogers Clark at 
                        Vincennes
                    . In 
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, July 3, 5, 1905.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., July 4, 1903, July 4, 1905.
               
                     the same year police charged that the chief offenders against
                    restrictions placed on the use of fireworks in the downtown "fire limit" were not
                    young boys but "Americans in the making." They cited the case of one immigrant, an
                    Italian, who could not read English and did not know about the prohibitions. The newcomer, Joseph
                    Coppoleno, did promise that next year, "I will know what the Fourth of July is in this
                        country."5
            
            Considerably less debate took place over the proper way to remember local citizens who had died in
                    battle. This component of commemoration, usually expressed on Memorial Day, cut close to 
                        Indianapolis
                     residents' personal feelings and recollections. Although they certainly had
                    leisure-time activities on their minds, citizens exhibited a seriousness of purpose on May 30 that
                    was often missing on the Fourth of July. By 1910 a Memorial Day automobile race was already
                    attracting large crowds to the Hoosier capital, but, clearly, the commemoration of the dead was no
                    small matter. Normal Memorial Day celebrations consisted of thousands of people walking through the
                    streets carrying flowers to cemeteries, the strewing of flowers around public monuments to the Civil
                    War dead and other figures from the past, and countless sermons and church services. Participants in
                    these activities paid little direct attention to patriotic symbols and messages often associated
                    with commemorative events and a great deal of attention to ordinary people of the community. In 1905
                    a sermon at Crown Hill Cemetery praised not only those city residents who went
                    off to war but also the "unlisted heroes" who stayed at home. In the same year
                    William Reagan, a Civil War veteran, spoke at another cemetery and called for all to respect the
                    "private" and the "common man" who did his duty. Reports from
                    graveside activities often noted the "tears and sobs" that were evident as roll
                    calls of the dead were read and "memories of war times" recalled.6
            
            The commemoration of the dead and the sacrifice of ordinary people in the Civil War, at once an
                    expression of patriotism and local and personal sorrow and pride, became the nucleus of the largest
                    commemorative activity in 
                        Indianapolis
                    's history prior to World War I. In 1902 the city erected a towering landmark
                    to the dead in the middle of the downtown. Standing over three hundred feet high, the central shaft
                    of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument looked down on the entire city and created
                    enormous interest and excitement. It certainly stood for the theme of citizen sacrifice for the
                    nation, but contemporary observers were quick to argue that it also honored the "private
                    soldier" who was missed by ordinary citizens in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     area.
            
               
                  5
                        Ibid., July 4, 1903, July 3, 1905, July 4, 3, 1910.
               
                  6
                        Ibid., May 30, 1905, May 30, 1910.
            
            
            The idea for the monument had originated with Oliver P. Morton, Indiana's Civil War
                    governor, and was furthered by a local Union veterans' association that was organized in
                    1876. As was the norm with nineteenth-century monuments, however, patriotism and local pride did not
                    generate sufficient public contributions. Not until the 1880s was the Grand Army of the Republic
                    (GAR) in Indiana able to persuade the state legislature to appropriate $200,000 and get
                    actual construction underway.7
            
            In its final form the monument consisted of a tall central shaft with four bronze statues located at
                    each corner. Dedicated to ordinary Hoosier soldiers who had fought for the nation, the shaft
                    included on each side allegorical figures representing war and peace. A local writer thought the
                    monument more beautiful than the "unsightly shaft" of the monuments dedicated to
                    the Battle of Bunker Hill or George Washington. The bronze corner statues were
                    memorials to four major eras in the history of Indiana and the Midwest as represented by leading
                    figures. Commemorated were George Rogers Clark and the era of the Revolution; James Whitcomb, the
                    governor of the state during the war with 
                        Mexico
                    ; William Henry Harrison and the Battle of Tippecanoe; and Oliver
                    P. Morton. Apparently the power structure in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was such that ordinary soldiers could not be commemorated without some attention to
                    prominent leaders.8
            
            Dedication ceremonies on May 14, 1902, included a parade of veterans from the Mexican, Civil, and
                    Spanish-American wars. Over fifteen thousand visitors crowded into 
                        Indianapolis
                     both to see the monument and to watch the parade. Many had visited the memorial several
                    days before the dedication because of rumors that the crowds on dedication day would be prohibitive.
                    During the parade reporters noted "tears and sobs in the eyes" of many spectators
                    as the veterans passed by. Several of the marchers themselves broke into tears in part, as one
                    former soldier described, because of the remembered deaths of the "fellows that bunked,
                    messed, and fought with me for three years."9
            
            During American involvement in World War I wartime demands deflected the focus of commemorative
                    activity in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Memorial Day remained a time to commemorate the dead, and city newspapers reported
                    that the number of people carrying flowers to local cemeteries had not been so high since
                    "the days when the Grand Army men were more numerous." Interestingly, 
                  
                     7
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 15, 1905.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., May 15, 14, 1902; the News also reported on May
                            15, 1902, that Indiana had received the largest amount of veterans' benefits in the
                            nation. Max R. Hyman, ed., Hymaris Handbook of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                : An Outline History … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1909), 53-62, quotation, 54.
                  
                     9
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 15, 1902.
               
                    
                    
                  
                            DEDICATION OF SOLDIERS' AND SAILORS' MONUMENT, JUNE
                                8, 1902
                        
                  
                            Photograph by Bass Photo Company; courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                . Neg. no. 3209.
                        
               
                    
                    
                  
                            SOLDIERS' AND SAILORS'
                                    MONUMENT JANUARY 16, 1906
                        
                  
                            Photograph by Bass Photo Company; courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                . Neg. No. 5792.
                        
               
                     however, speakers on May 30, 1918, talked less about the sorrow
                    and pride they felt for ordinary soldiers than about the "glorious incentives"
                    provided by the soldiers of the Civil War for the youth who had to fight in the World War. Suddenly
                    the past was being commemorated not so much as a means for expressing grief and sorrow for those who
                    had died but as a means of instilling patriotism in the present. Indeed, a study of
                    twentieth-century Memorial Day orations in 
                        Indianapolis
                     indicates that the memory and example of the Civil War was used extensively during 1918
                    but was dramatically absent afterward, when it was replaced by memories of World War I itself. In
                    1918, however, most citizens could agree with the speaker at Butler College who exclaimed that
                    Americans could truly appreciate as never before exactly what it meant to "preserve the
                        union."10
            
            The most dramatic change in commemorative activity during World War I occurred in Fourth of July
                    celebrations. In 1918, when the exercise of state power became so dramatic, leisure and frivolity
                    temporarily gave way to more serious commemoration. In that year 
                        Indianapolis
                     officials, at the behest of President Woodrow Wilson, organized a commemorative
                    activity that was unique to the city. The event, which discussed issues previously absent from
                    public commemorations, was the Americanization Day parade of July 4, 1918. As a public exhibition of
                    unity and loyalty, the parade included many diverse sectors of the community's social
                    structure but featured immigrant newcomers who had seldom been heard in civic discourse. The one
                    ethnic group that had been publicly audible was unable to assert ethnic identity and loyalty during
                    the war. The Germans, who had celebrated German Day each October, marched in the parade not as an
                    ethnic unit but as the "Friends of German Democracy" and carried only an American
                    flag. Other ethnic aggregations carried flags from both their homelands and the 
                        United States
                     to tell the rest of the city that ethnic identity and background were not incompatible
                    with loyalty to the American nation.11
            
            The 
                        Marion County
                     Council of Defense organized the Americanization Day parade, allocated space in the
                    line of march, and called upon "all loyal citizens, no matter of what extraction, to show
                    their Americanism and patriotism." As fashioned by governmental authorities, the
                    parade's line of march symbolically placed the immigrants within the recognized and
                    accepted structure of American patriotism in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Following units of city police, military bands, boy scouts, and the Daughters of the
                    American Revolution carrying American flags, immigrants marched in native 
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., May 30, 1918; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, May 31, 1918.
                  
                     11
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, July 3, 4, 1918; 
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, July 4, 5, 1918.
               
                     costumes, rode on floats, and presented themselves to the
                    dominant society. Thus, the Italian float consisted of the "queen of 
                        Italy
                    " surrounded by her American sisters. This float was followed by
                    Italian-American school children carrying American flags. Slovenians, numbering over 350 in the line
                    of march, presented a truck carrying Slovene-American children and farmers pledging loyalty to the 
                        United States
                     and a second truck filled with women in folk costumes. The group carried a banner that
                    read "Slovenians: We Are For America First, Last, and All the Time." Romanians
                    created a float that showed a figure dressed as Uncle Sam triumphing over another figure that
                    represented "autocracy." At the conclusion of the parade each ethnic group carried
                    the flag of its homeland to a stage dominated by a large American flag. Wymond J. Beckett, an
                    attorney active in planning local defense activities, apologized to the foreign-born on behalf of
                    the rest of the city's and nation's prominent classes. He admitted that in the
                    past the newcomer to the 
                        United States
                     had been treated "as a mere economic unit, to be used, worn out, and cast
                    aside …." He promised that this practice would not continue and insisted that
                    the foreign-born were needed to maintain the foundations of the republic.12
            
            Once the war's tribulations ended, however, 
                        Indianapolis
                     leaders and officials quickly eliminated immigrant voices from public discourse and
                    began once more an energetic quest to link local and personal feeling for the dead with the
                    promotion of patriotism and even the progress of the city itself. Commemorative activities focused
                    on veterans, both living and dead, because they, like all symbols, mediated several powerful but
                    divergent interests in society. Ordinary people felt a strong need to understand what wartime
                    sacrifices were all about and to express sorrow and grief. City leaders and boosters were eager to
                    stimulate civic pride as a basis for continued prosperity and growth and to profit from the powerful
                    patriotic currents engendered by the war and reinforced by the federal government during and after
                    the conflict. Although there was a clear exercise of power on the part of dominant political and
                    civic leaders, there was also a democratic thrust to the commemoration of patriotic veterans since
                    they came from all social classes, ethnic and religious groups, and races.
            This democratic component of the memory system and culture may actually have helped to contain the
                    spread of the more intolerant strain of nationalism that was manifested by the rise of the Ku Klux
                    Klan in Indiana and 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the 1920s. 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in fact, actually became a Klan stronghold in 1925 when the organization mounted a
                    successful compaign to elect a mayor and an entire slate of school board candidates. But despite the
                    fact that 
                  
                            12
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     the Klan became truly powerful in the city, it was continually
                    opposed by all of the local newspapers, which were run by local elites, and by Catholic, Jewish, and
                    Protestant bodies who had all participated actively in the winning' and commemoration of
                    the war. It was not uncommon, for instance, at commemorative events during the height of the
                    Klan's power in the city to have representatives from all three faiths speak at services
                    and ceremonies, a direct rebuttal of the Klan's anti-Catholic and anti-Jewish attitudes.13
            
            The use of patriotic veterans as a commemorative symbol was not only democratic and linked somewhat
                    to the needs of ordinary people it was intolerant and hegemonic as well. Institutional leaders, who
                    tended to reside in the professional and business classes, aggressively sought to use memories of
                    past wars and historical actors therein to stimulate loyalty to existing institutions and,
                    therefore, to themselves. Patriotism was thus fostered in so uncompromising a manner that it
                    nurtured the power of large governmental and economic structures in the city, the state, and the
                    nation. This vested interest in maintaining existing power structures partially explains city
                    leaders' attempts to promote the commemoration of soldiers rather than pioneers, who had
                    been the dominant historical symbol of Indiana's centennial celebration in 1916.
            After the war veterans were commemorated not on one day but on two. Memorial Day celebrations
                    continued much as they had before. The placement of flowers at graves and monuments and increased
                    attendance at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Speedway remained integral parts of the day's activities. Members of the
                    professional classes, especially ministers, military officers, and lawyers always gave orations; and
                    the past continued to serve as a device to educate citizens in the present. At the
                    Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument in 1929, for example, the Reverend Warren Wiant
                    told his listeners: the "glory of our history is that when the testing day came, our
                    fathers were not afraid to sacrifice." He asserted that the same spirit of sacrifice for
                    the nation must be manifested again in the future if "our priceless heritage is to be
                        preserved."14
            
            In the decades after World War I, however, Armistice Day was the major celebration honoring veterans.
                    For years citizens who had experienced the jubilation and sense of relief at the termination of the
                    war in 1918 held November 11 in high regard. Between the two world wars people in 
                        Indianapolis
                     did not normally parade on the Fourth of July or Memorial Day, but they always did so
                    on 
                  
                     13 On the Ku Klux Klan in 
                                Indianapolis
                             see Kenneth T. Jackson, The Ku Klux Klan in the City, 1915-30 (
                                New York
                            , 1967), 156-58; Judith E. Endelman, The Jewish Community in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1849 to the Present (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1984), 124.
                  
                     14
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 30, 1929, May 30, 1931, May 30, 1932, November 11, 1931.
               
                     November 11. Although the Ku Klux Klan parades during the 1920s
                    consisted largely of middle- and lower-middle-class white Protestants, the Armistice Day parade
                    affirmed the equality of all religious groups and consisted of clergy, veterans, and Gold Star
                    mothers of all faiths. Parades of five thousand people were not uncommon, American Legion dances
                    were inaugurated, and speakers used the occasion to "revive cherished memories" as
                    well as to sustain the ideal of continued service to the nation.15
            
            Patriotism thus became the dominant ideal for commemorative activities in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the 1920s not only because of memories of the dead and wartime sacrifices but also
                    because of active efforts on the part of the city's business and professional classes. In
                    their classic investigations of 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, in the 1920s sociologists Robert S. and Helen Merrell Lynd argued somewhat
                    narrowly that Middletown's business elite fostered patriotism and civic pride together to
                    promote an orderly society that would assist leaders in their efforts to attract new business. The
                    Lynds failed to realize that honoring soldiers' sacrifices offered ordinary people a place
                    within the construction of public memory. At the same time they were correct in seeing that city
                    boosters' willingness to commit large amounts of resources and energy to the building of
                    patriotic sentiments and landmarks represented a central force in the construction of patriotism.16
            
            In 1919 the 
                        Indianapolis
                     delegation to the American Legion convention in 
                        Minneapolis
                    , with the help of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Chamber of Commerce, succeeded in getting the Hoosier capital selected as the site of
                    the legion's national headquarters. Supporters for 
                        Indianapolis
                     triumphed over those from 
                        Washington, D. C.
                    , by arguing that the headquarters should be located near the nation's center
                    of population and near the "center of the flag." They also argued that the legion
                    offices should be located where the "poorest man in the country can come to the
                    headquarters" and that in 
                        Washington
                     the legion would be overshadowed by federal institutions. Just six days after the
                    convention's decision a joint group of representatives from the chamber of commerce, the
                    city's real estate board, the board of trade, and the state legion met to discuss the need
                    to build a facility for the national headquarters. Fearing that other cities might still lure the
                    legion away, city leaders pressed for a $10,000,000 memorial building and plaza that
                    would house the legion and honor the war dead at the same time. Some veterans protested that the
                    money would be better spent on bonuses, and residents near the downtown, where the plaza was to
                        
                  
                     15
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, November 11, 1929.
                  
                     16 Robert S. Lynd and Helen Merrell Lynd, Middletown: A
                                Study of Contemporary American Culture (
                                New York
                            , 1929), 222, 488-91.
               
                     be built, opposed the loss of their homes and the use of public
                    funds for the project. But the initiative of economic and political leaders could not be overcome.
                    In 
                        Marion County
                     local leaders, along with local legion posts, conducted a massive publicity campaign to
                    "educate" the voters.17
            
            On July 4, 1927, Hoosier citizens dedicated the Indiana World War Memorial, which rose two hundred
                    feet above its base, and a huge plaza that stretched for over one-half mile just north of the
                    downtown area. In what was probably the greatest patriotic ceremony in twentieth-century 
                        Indianapolis
                    , General John J. Pershing led a parade of citizens. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star commented that thousands of young men whom Pershing had led to 
                        France
                    , old warriors who had kept the Union intact in the "early sixties,"
                    and veterans of other wars passed through the streets proclaiming that 
                        Indianapolis
                     did not forget its heroes. Only patriots marched behind Pershing in 1927. Immigrants
                    who were visible in the Americanization Day parade in 1918 or "pioneers" who were
                    noticeable in the city's centennial parade in 1920 were not to be found. The message here
                    was clear: 
                        Indianapolis
                     was united, and patriotism emanated from all its people and was not the private
                    preserve of any segment. If the city could not be the capital of the nation, it could still be the
                    capital of national sentiment.18
            
            Post-parade ceremonies served and united interests associated with both high emotional partriotism
                    and local and personal feeling and pride. Pershing spoke for the patriots and stressed the familiar
                    association between visions of the past and the need for unity and loyalty in the present: 
                        This is an experience of a lifetime …. It is an inspiration of a degree never
                            exceeded in my experience. The thrill of seeing the people of Indiana and particularly of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , rise as one to celebrate this day needs no comment. … It is a
                            … distinct honor to … participate with the people of this state in the
                            laying of the cornerstone of this monument, to be erected to the memory of their sons. These
                            men of Indiana fought to sustain the eternal principles of liberty upon which our government
                            is founded…. Like that of our forefathers, their valor and their sacrifices have
                            become the heritages of the ages.19
                  
                     When Pershing placed a wreath on a gold star flagstaff and spread mortar for the
                    cornerstone, the crowd became extremely quiet and, according to one reporter, appeared to be
                    "under a spell." All present acknowledged how complete the triumph of patriotic
                    interests had become.20
            
            
               
                  17
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, November 12, 1919; Richard Morris Clutter, "The Indiana
                        American Legion, 1919-1960" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Indiana
                        University, 
                            Bloomington
                        , 1974), 110-16.
               
                  18
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, July 4, 1927.
               
                  19
                        Ibid., July 5, 1927.
               
                        20
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            
               
                        DEDICATION PARADE FOR INDIANA WORLD WAR MEMORIAL
                                JULY 4, 1927FLAGS OF THE AMERICAN LEGION POSTS
                  
                    
               Photograph by Bass Photo Company; courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
            
               
                        LAYING THE INDIANA WORLD
                                WAR MEMORIAL CORNERSTONE, WITH
                                GENERAL JOHN J. PERSHING,
                        1927
                    
               Photograph by Bass Photo Company; courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Neg. no. 203121-F.
            
            
            
               
                        INDIANA WORLD WAR MEMORIAL 1931
                    
               Photograph by Bass Photo Company; courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Neg. no. 215137-F
            
            
            Local pride and personal memories of the living and the dead were not by any means eliminated from
                    the celebration, which only appeared to be devoted exclusively to the ideal of loyalty to the
                    nation. Exactly what thoughts and feelings filled the consciousness of those in attendance cannot be
                    known, but much that was important to local citizens and their memories of friends and relatives who
                    had fought and died in the war went into the cornerstone of the new memorial. Included were the
                    names of over 130,000 Indiana World War I veterans, the state's Gold Star honor roll, a
                    report on the American Red Cross work in the state during the war, a list of the officers and
                    members of the American Legion in Indiana, a history of the "colored
                    men's" branch of the Young Men's Christian Association during the war,
                    and a report of the Jewish Welfare Board's wartime activities.21
            
            The intensity of the celebration of the war dead waned somewhat by the late 1930s. As the memories of
                    the wartime experience receded and the attention of city leaders switched from boosterism to
                    rectifying economic problems, the organized celebration of patriotism diminished. Leisure and
                    enjoyment rather than patriotism and the commemoration of the dead dominated Armistice Day
                    celebrations. In 1937 the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star noted that the downtown parade was larger than in the past but also that
                    "gaiety was peculiarly more predominant." A military band played
                    "Indiana, Our Indiana," instead of a military march, and a high school band gave a
                    rendition of "Jingle Bells." A Star reporter explained that the
                    drum major went through "capers revealing that he had no memory of the first Armistice Day
                    and its surging emotions." A group of marching legionnaires, pausing for a temporary delay,
                    even danced a jig and shouted at onlookers. The Butler University band played a "quick-step
                    version of the Butler war song." Nevertheless, deep emotions and seriousness of purpose
                    still existed in 1937. One observer revealed that a group of war mothers riding in an automobile
                    caravan "brushed away" tears and that "aging veterans stood grim
                    faced" during ceremonies. Both the Star and the local American Legion
                    noted, however, that the "bright edges of what they believed were unforgettable
                    memories" seemed "remote" to a new generation raised since the war. In
                    fact, based on that perception, the legion mounted a display of posters from the era of World War I
                    so that young people could read about how citizens were called to war, bought Liberty bonds, served
                    in the Red Cross, and saved fuel.22
            
            
               
                  21
                        Ibid., July 4, 1927; Indiana Historical Commission, pub., Indiana
                            War Memorial, pamphlet ([
                            Indianapolis
                        ], 1919).
               
                  22
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, November 11, 12, 1937; "The American Legion Exhibit,"
                        pamphlet (November, 1937).
            
            
            As might be expected, the emphasis on patriotism in commemorative activities reemerged during World
                    War II. Once the war had ended, however, the patriotic interest appeared to wane much more quickly
                    than it had in the 1920s. People in 
                        Indianapolis
                     still paraded on Armistice Day and placed flowers on graves at Memorial Day; but
                    leisure interests predominated as never before, and the effort to place memory in the service of the
                    nation was considerably weaker than after World War I. Parades honoring veterans were smaller, and
                    Memorial Day increasingly became associated with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     500 automobile race. On the Fourth of July, 1952, a pageant once again commemorated
                    "Pioneer Days," a theme that had been neglected during the patriotic celebrations
                    of the dead. A local editor observed that after World War II the "Fourth was not as grand
                    and glorious."23
            
            An effort to revive the emphasis on patriotism and civic loyalty in commemorative activities
                    manifested itself in the late 1960s and early 1970s when the nation was attacked again, this time by
                    dissidents within the country. In response to urban unrest and antiwar demonstrations in the nation
                    at large and to incidents of "rowdy behavior" by youth during several public
                    events in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the city's leaders attempted to use commemorative days to instill sentiments
                    of patriotism and civic responsibility. On July 4, 1969, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Star featured a plan by which the city could celebrate the upcoming observance of its
                    sesquicentennial and the nation's bicentennial. Conceived by Edward Pierce, a leading
                    architect in the city, the proposal consisted of several projects designed to rejuvenate a sense of
                    civic and patriotic obligation. Pierce called for frequent decorations of Monument Circle to promote
                    a "community spirit," renewed attention to the creation of radial avenues
                    emanating from the downtown and downtown parking areas in order to facilitate the flow of citizens
                    to the center of the city, and the development of an Indiana Lincoln Memorial Center. Pierce argued
                    specifically that historic landmarks could serve as an "inspiration for future
                    generations." Although all of Pierce's ideas were not developed, the promotion of
                    his plan did indicate an awareness on the part of the city's professional classes that
                    public symbols and monuments could contribute to the promotion of community and civic loyalty. In
                    1970 political and civic authorities initiated Unigov, a plan that allowed 
                        Indianapolis
                     to incorporate most of surrounding 
                        Marion County
                    . In part, the plan reflected city leaders' desires to reinvigorate what was
                    perceived to be a racially and geographically divided city. Richard Lugar, the city's mayor
                    at the time, claimed that the annexation would "heal" the divisions between the
                    suburbs and the city and make the city more livable.24
            
            
               
                  23
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Star, July 4, November 12, 1947, July 4, 1952.
               
                  24
                        Ibid., July 4, 1969; 
                            New York
                        
                        Times, May 25, 31, 1971. Unigov did not completely merge the city and suburbs.
                        Schools, law enforcement, and some taxing authorities were not joined.
            
            
            
               
                        
                     
                                INDIANAPOLIS
                        
                             5001919
                    
               Photograph by Bass Photo Company; courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Neg. no. 66756.
            
            
            In 1970 
                        Indianapolis
                    's professional elite even made some effort to revitalize the patriotic
                    component of Fourth of July celebrations, although the stimulus came from outside the city.
                    Entertainer Bob Hope was prominent in the promotion of an "Honor America Day"
                    celebration to be held in 
                        Washington, D. C.
                    , on July 4 of that year. The celebration's purpose was to tell the world,
                    which had watched protests by American citizens against their government and political structure,
                    that "the love of America by Americans is as real and vital as it ever was." This
                    movement stirred some local organizations into action. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star offered the local population inexpensive lapel pins in the shape of the
                    American flag and completely sold its initial order of forty thousand in just a few days. The
                    newspaper also cited reports that claimed that the sale of American flags had risen dramatically
                    along with the sudden use of flag decals on automobile windshields. Although Fourth of July parades
                    were seldom significant events in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the twentieth century, four were held on "Honor America Day" in
                    various parts of the city; all ended together in the parking lot of a shopping center instead of
                    near a monument for a patriotic ceremony.25
            
            Organized attempts to stimulate patriotism did not last as long during the 1960s and 1970s as similar
                    efforts had after 1918. By the late 1960s even Memorial Day was devoted less to veterans and dead
                    patriots and much more to entertainment and leisure. A parade, held several days before the 
                        Indianapolis
                     500, emphasized not serious commemoration and civic duty but fantasy and escape. In
                    fact, civic leaders and officials transferred most of their attention to the organization of the
                    "500 Festival Parade" and left commemoration of the dead largely to individuals
                    and small patriotic or veterans organizations. Unlike the 1920s, when city leaders and ordinary
                    citizens jointly organized commemorative activities honoring the dead, the public in the 1960s was
                    left to express its commemorative sentiments in its own way. Consequently, commemoration became less
                    an expression of national loyalty and more an expression of sorrow and loss. Small ceremonies and
                    personal visits still took place at cemeteries, but no centrally organized parades were held, and no
                    monuments were dedicated. Newspapers carried personal statements from individuals who had lost loved
                    ones both in wartime and peacetime. In a sense the revelation of personal feelings was more
                    widespread than during earlier public commemorative events. At the same time this expression of
                    feeling was in part diminished by the enormous scale of the 500 Festival celebration and parade,
                    which was attended by several hundred thousand people each year just before Memorial Day.
            
               
                  25
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, July 4, 5, 1970.
            
            
            Although Memorial Day expressions of sorrow undoubtedly drew less public attention, they were
                    nonetheless poignant. Not all involved an articulation of grief for military dead. In fact, any
                    deceased friend or relative was likely to be remembered. Veterans, however, constituted a very large
                    portion of the approximately one thousand messages that were printed in the local press each
                    Memorial Day, and the sorrowful component of private memories was evident. The family of a man
                    killed in 
                        Vietnam
                     in 1966 mourned: 
                        When the evening shades are falling And we are sitting all alone In our hearts their comes a
                            longing If he only could come home.
                     The friends of Lance Corporal Larry James Pierson wrote: 
                        Died in the service of his country in 
                                Vietnam
                            , hill 512, Quang Tri Province, May 26, 1969. You gave us a wonderful memory of
                            a friendship so dear. Our hearts ache with loneliness to hunt and fish with you near. But
                            God chose to call you home to everlasting peace. And someday we will join you friend, to a
                            life that will not cease.
                     And, finally, the family of a veteran killed in 
                        Korea
                     in 1953 expressed their longing. They lamented: 
                        Nothing can ever take away The love a heart holds dear. Fond memories linger everyday
                            Remembrances keep him near.26
                  
                    
            
            These expressions of personal grief and memory contrasted sharply with the celebration of the
                    festival parade and the automobile race itself, events that dominated the Memorial Day weekend in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Each year in the late 1960s and early 1970s organizers devoted the parade to
                    entertainment and eschewed the themes of loyalty, Americanization, progress, and the triumph of the
                    pioneers, topics that had been featured in commemorations prior to World War II. Such a focus
                    reduced the level of political discourse that had characterized commemorative activities in the
                    prewar era and suggested that commercialized entertainment threatened to end or replace serious
                    civic ceremony completely. In 
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., May 31, 1968. About 20 percent of the statements were devoted to
                            servicemen.
               
                     1969 the parade's major theme was that of an
                    international fiesta. The grand marshal was a governmental official from 
                        Spain
                     who was in charge of tourism and who was accompanied by riders on horseback in
                    "traditional" Spanish dress. Floats were the central ingredient in the parade and
                    treated the history of aviation, deep sea fishing, a "Good Guy cowboy preparing to lasso a
                    steer," and "Polynesian Surfing." Although most floats were sponsored and
                    produced by local companies and corporations, they in no way reflected local civic themes. Rather,
                    the professional classes sought to promote the city and their own images not through patriotism but
                    through pure forms of entertainment. In the same year, 1969, that several hundred thousand citizens
                    came to see "Polynesian Surfing," a small ceremony was held at the
                    Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument; and the flags in the city were flown at half-mast
                    at the request of President Richard M. Nixon as a "mark of respect" for Americans
                    who had died in 
                        Vietnam
                    . But most people expressed sorrow in their own personal way rather than in public
                    ceremonies, or they focused instead on the "fiesta parade" or the race. In 1971
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star found the parade so entertaining that it claimed that thousands had cheered
                    for bands, celebrities, and floats and that "for a while last night 
                        Vietnam
                     and the dollar did not seem nearly so important."27
            
            During the bicentennial celebration of 1976, the 500 Festival Parade temporarily returned to
                    patriotic themes. The approach, however, was clearly one of entertainment, not of civic instruction.
                    One award-winning float in 1976 honored the nation with a presentation entitled
                    "You've Come a Long Way Baby." Sponsored by the Indiana National Bank, it
                    featured an infant with an Uncle Sam hat and a birthday cake. Another float called
                    "Marching Along Together" featured a colonial soldier playing a flute and a bear
                    playing a guitar.28
            
            By the 1970s entertainment and leisure increasingly dominated commemorative times in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Little emphasis was placed on honoring historical symbols such as soldiers and
                    patriots. Public commemorations of the past, in fact, not only were less evident but also seemed
                    more trivial and less tied to the interests and needs of both civic leaders and ordinary people.
                    City leaders continued to promote the need to instill loyalty and celebrate patriots, but these
                    traditional discussions took place on a much quieter level. Ordinary people also continued to
                    remember loved ones who had died, primarily through newspaper messages and visits to cemeteries, but
                    their interests, too, were less visible.
            
               
                  27
                        Ibid., May 29, 30, 1969, May 29, 1971.
               
                  28
                        Ibid., May 29, July 5, 1976. A downtown festival on July 4, 1976, included a
                        mixture of civic and entertainment features. Citizens could sign scrolls of reaffirmation to the
                        Declaration of Independence and/or listen to presentations of various kinds of music.
            
            
            Before World War II, when prominent leaders and ordinary citizens expressed their commemorative
                    interests more strongly, civic concerns played a preponderant role in commemorative activities.
                    Monuments to soldiers and leaders, who were both symbols of patriotism and lost loved ones,
                    reconciled the diverse interests of the prominent and the average citizen. Warner's belief
                    that commemorative activity primarily served the interests of the elite in a community was only
                    partially true in 
                        Indianapolis
                     prior to the 1940s. The erection of the Soldiers' and Sailors'
                    Monument and the War Memorial certainly served the need of powerful citizens to stimulate citizen
                    loyalty to existing institutions and to promote the city. But such monuments also provided a means
                    for ordinary people to express sorrow and regret for other ordinary people who had died, not simply
                    because they valued patriotism but also because they bemoaned the loss of lives for any reason
                    whether it be political or otherwise.
            After 1945 ordinary people still indicated that they regretted such sacrifice and loss of life, but
                    the powerful presence of a culture of entertainment muted, in public at least, both the expression
                    of sorrow and of patriotism on the part of citizens and leaders alike. Both groups, in fact, heavily
                    supported this cultural expression of commemoration. For ordinary citizens it was part of the
                    pursuit of leisure and consumption that had come to dominate their lives. For leaders entertainment
                    offered a less politicized way to promote city growth and economic gain, something that was always
                    important in their approach to the planning of commemorative events.
            Did commemorative activity in twentieth-century 
                        Indianapolis
                     simply reflect the interests of the city's most powerful political and
                    economic leaders in a manner reminiscent of Warner's 
                        Newburyport
                    ? An examination of such activity suggests that it did not. Instead, commemorative
                    events in the city and probably elsewhere in the state honored a past that was meaningful to various
                    elements of the social structure. The intense focus on the war dead in the entire era prior to World
                    War II satisfied several important concerns. Ordinary citizens were given an opportunity to express
                    their grief, sorrow, and longing for dead relatives and friends; the past they honored was a local
                    and personal one that many had often experienced directly. At the same time influential city leaders
                    periodically altered the focus on a local and personal past by mobilizing patriotic
                    sentiment—the notion of serving and loving the nation—for political and
                    economic ends. Examples include the Americanization effort during World War I and the movement to
                    construct the massive war memorial in the 1920s.
            It is not clear why either honoring the war dead or promoting civic unity and progress through
                    patriotism was not as pronounced in commemorations after World War II. Both the effort to honor a
                    personal and local past by remembering the dead and the promotion  of patriotism did continue, although in somewhat episodic fashion, but entertainment and leisure
                    interests consumed much of the energy invested in commemorative periods. Civic leaders who certainly
                    saw entertainment as a more effective and possibly more profitable way to promote their traditional
                    objectives of citizen unity and city progress must assume some responsibility for citizens spending
                    more time in leisure activities and less in formal civic rituals. It was these leaders who invented
                    new traditions, such as the festival parade, around which commemorative days could be centered.
                    Citizens themselves, however, demonstrated an obvious interest in leisure and entertainment as well.
                    Traditional commemorations of the past were not entirely eliminated, but they were surely weakened
                    in a city populated by leaders and citizens who feverishly pursued new forms of relaxation,
                    amusement, and economic gain.
         
         
         
            The Civil War Home Front: Diary of a Young Girl, 1862–1863
            Edited by Virginia Mayberry and Dawn E. Bakken∗
            Of the thousands of Civil War diaries and letters that are available to scholars, few are written by
                    children or adolescents. The diary of one young Hoosier, Alice Hawks, provides a glimpse into the
                    maturation of a nineteenth-century girl coming of age in a time of great strife. What is most
                    striking about Alice's diary, however, is that that strife scarcely casts a shadow on its
                    pages. Alice worries about school, clothes, housework, siblings, sleigh rides, and society meetings;
                    the war intrudes only occasionally into the pages of her diary like an unexpected and unwelcome
                    visitor. The story that emerges is of a life crowded with little events. Alice's diary
                    paints a vivid portrait of small-town life in northern Indiana in the 1860s and the life of a
                    middle-class girl.
            Alice Hawks was born in 
                        Waterford
                    , Indiana, in 1845 into a prosperous family. During the 1830s her paternal grandfather,
                    Cephas Hawks, had established a large business complex in the small 
                        Elkhart County
                     town. Cephas died in 1857, and four of his six sons, Cephus, Jr., Eleazer, Joel, and
                    Dwight, took over the family businesses, which included a gristmill, sawmill, woolen mill,
                    cooperage, distillery, and general store. By January of 1862, when Alice's diary begins,
                    Joel, Alice's father, had moved his family approximately three miles north to 
                        Goshen
                    , while continuing to work and travel extensively for the family businesses.
                    Alice's emotional ties 
                  ∗ Virginia Mayberry, who now lives in 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, is a former resident of 
                                Middlebury
                            , 
                                Elkhart County
                            , Indiana. She is the author of "Draftee's Wife: A Memoir of
                            World War II," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXIX (December,
                            1983), 305-29, and the editor of "West to Wilderness," ibid., LXXXIII (March, 1987), 1-16. In 1986 she collaborated in the production of Middlebury: The Town Beautiful, 1836-1986 (
                                Goshen
                            , Ind., 1986). Her husband, Joseph A. Mayberry, is a descendant of Joel Prescott
                            Hawks and Sarah Jane Brown Hawks, the parents of the young girl whose diary appears below.
                            Dawn E. Bakken is an editorial assistant with the Indiana Magazine of
                            History. She is a Ph.D. candidate in the Department of Religious Studies, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                  Indiana MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXVII (March, 1991). "1991, Trustees of Indiana
                            University.
               
                    
                    
                  
                            CHLOE CASE HAWKS AND
                                    CEPHAS HAWKS, SR.
                        
                  
                            Courtesy Virginia Mayberry.
                        
               
                     to her hometown remained as strong as her father's
                    business ties, and her diary often reveals her homesickness for 
                        Waterford
                    .
            Alice's mother, Sarah Jane Brown, was a pioneer who moved to Indiana in 1834 with her
                        family.1 She married Joel Prescott Hawks in 1844. By 1861 her time was taken
                    up with running a large household and caring for six children, of whom Alice was the oldest. Three
                    of the children in the house were still quite young: Minnie was six years old, Mabel (usually called
                    May in the diary) three years old, and Joel (called Jo) only a year old. During the period covered
                    by the diary, Sarah had her last child, Lora. The work of helping to run a large household often
                    dominates the journal. As the oldest girl, Alice was expected to wash and iron clothes, sew, clean
                    house, care for the children, and participate in any other activities that her mother could not
                    manage alone. As a middle-class family the Hawkses did have the benefit of a hired girl, a luxury
                    unavailable to many, but they also had the disadvantages of unpredictable domestic labor. The diary
                    is punctuated with the appearances and disappearances of various girls, in particular Mary Potter,
                    whose absences throw Alice's life into a flurry. It is fitting that the diary ends in June,
                    1863, with Joel Hawks trying to regain, yet again, the services of the unpredictable Mary.2
            
            The other cornerstones of the story are school, church, and social life. Alice is an excellent
                    example of the emergence of the relatively carefree adolescent into the history of American
                        childhood.3 Despite her home responsibilities Alice is free to attend
                    parties and church society meetings, take long walks and rides with friends and family, and
                    generally amuse herself on a level made possible by her family's financial comfort and by a
                    society that no longer defined children in terms of their economic contributions.
            Alice's outlook on life is exemplified by her school record. She clearly places value on her
                    studies, often writing of her worry that she has fallen behind in a particular subject or has not
                    prepared for the next day's class. That Alice entertained dreams of further education is
                    obvious when she cries at the birth of her youngest sister because the family will have no money to
                    send her away to school. When compared with modern society's demand for faithful 
                  
                     1 Sarah Brown's story is told in Mayberry, "West to
                            Wilderness," 1-16.
                  
                     2 Hired help in rural areas and small towns tended to be contracted on
                            a fairly casual basis between people who knew each other and each other's families
                            well; thus, a great deal of flexibility existed in the arrangements. For a discussion of
                            rural hired help as contrasted with the domestic service common in cities, see Faye E.
                            Dudden, Serving Women: Household Service in Nineteenth-Century America (
                                Middletown
                            , 
                                Conn.
                            , 1983), 12-43. For a look at life from the point of view of Mary Potter and her
                            sisters in service, see chapter six of the same book.
                  
                     3 For a history of the variety of ways in which childhood has been
                            defined and constructed in America, see the collection of essays in Harvey J. Graff, ed.,
                                Growing Up in America: Historical Experiences (
                                Detroit
                            , 1987).
               
                    
                    
                  
                            CHILDREN OF JOEL P. AND SARAH J. HAWKS A FEW
                                    YEARS AFTER ALICE WROTE
                                    HER DIARY. (LEFT TO RIGHT: EMMA, MINNIE, JOE, ALICE, MABEL, LORA, DWIGHT)
                        
                  Courtesy Virginia Mayberry.
               
                     school attendance, however, Alice shows herself to be of a
                    different time and culture. Peppered throughout the diary are references to missing school in order
                    to visit 
                        Waterford
                     with cousins, leaving school to go down to the depot to greet her returning father or
                    bid farewell to a departing relative, leaving homework undone to go to a party, or deserting her
                    books to go sleigh riding. Such behavior was apparently quite normal since no parental disapproval
                    is ever mentioned. Indeed, it is sometimes Alice's mother who urges her to abandon study
                    for a party.
            A second focal point of Alice's life is the church. Alice and her family were faithful
                    members of the local Methodist church, and Alice attended and eventually taught Sunday School. The
                    most frequent religious event in the diary, however, is the society meeting, and here
                    Alice's life provides an interesting look at how much of "religion" was
                    also (or primarily) social entertainment. Alice attends society meetings of Methodists,
                    Presbyterians, and Episcopalians, and several nights each month are taken up this way. She reports
                    on the meetings from a purely social standpoint—who attended, what dress she wore, the
                    people she talked to, the unusual excitements that occurred (as when a chimney caught on
                    fire)— and often ends the account with a final judgment: whether or not she had a good
                    time.
            It is in the small details of everyday life, and not the broader events beyond 
                        Goshen
                     and Indiana, that Alice's life is revealed. The Civil War appears as a faint
                    subtext, in which Alice flirts with a soldier, spends an afternoon filling cartridges, or goes down
                    to the railroad depot to cheer departing troops. There were probably many young people like Alice,
                    who lived far from any battlefront and whose lives were touched but not fundamentally changed by the
                    war. Alice's story may be more typical than is usually recognized, and that very typicality
                    sheds an interesting light on life on the home front during the Civil War.
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Miss Alice Hawks1
                        
                        
                           Jan 1st 1862 This is the first day of the new year and I am going
                                    to begin to read the bible through and keep a Journal this year. I do not know how I
                                    shall succed in all these things but I intend to try and do my best.
                        I spent the afternoon at Mr Purll's.2 Lizzie and Amanda
                                    were there had a very pleasent visit and Bill brought me home in the carraig.
                        We expected father some this evening but he did not come I have been to meeting this
                                    evening and heard a very good sermon but forgot where the text was so I couldent
                                    tell mother when I got home. Jan 2nd Started to school to day but
                                    there wasent any so I came home and went to work at my mitten and have got it most
                                        done.3 This is Em's birth day she is thirteen.
                        Frank, Maty, Sady and Anna Chamberlain spent the evening here.4
                        
                        I began reading the Elder sister by Marion James to day and like it very much5 We got a letter from father to night.
                        
                           
                              1 Alice Hawks frequently recorded her diary entries late
                                        at night when she was quite tired; at other times she wrote hurriedly or
                                        excitedly. Her errors often reflect the circumstances at the time she wrote, not
                                        her education or knowledge; many are common to such informal writing. In order
                                        to retain this "flavor" of the times and the
                                        diarist's charm the journal has been transcribed as nearly like the
                                        original as possible in regard to grammar and spelling. The editors have used
                                        their discretion in dealing with punctuation, which is sometimes obscured by
                                        faintness in the original script and by Alice's penmanship. In many
                                        instances double spaces have been inserted to break up long run-on sentences
                                        that have no punctuation at all. Unintentional repetitions have been deleted.
                                        Some letters, in particular "n" and "m,"
                                        were occasionally miswritten. In such cases, corrections have been made without
                                        an indication in the text. Any other additions or corrections appear in
                                        brackets. The dates preceding each journal entry have been underlined.
                           
                              2 The entire southeastern portion of present-day 
                                            Goshen
                                        , Indiana, lies on what was, in 1862, Elias Purl's farm.
                           
                              3 For most of the period covered by her diary, Alice
                                        attended a subscription school run by Mrs. E. W. Metcalfe. Since public schools
                                        were still scarce in the state, most schools were organized and financed
                                        privately. Alice's experiences may be unusual, for the Metcalfe school
                                        seems to have met for several months per term. For the state as a whole the
                                        average school term was only sixty-eight days by 1866. James H. Madison, The Indiana Way: A State History (
                                            Bloomington
                                        , 1986), 180. For a brief history of subscription and rate schools,
                                        both predecessors to public schools, see Wayne E. Fuller, The Old
                                            Country School: The Story of Rural Education in the Middle West (
                                            Chicago
                                        , 1982), 26-30. For additional details of early education in
                                        Indiana, see John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony,Indiana: From
                                            Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                            New York
                                        , 1964), I, 255-75, II, 105-28.
                           
                              4 For genealogical information about the Hawks and Brown
                                        families see pages 32-34 below. Em, mentioned in the preceding paragraph, was
                                        undoubtedly Alice's sister, Emma. Mattie was probably Alice's
                                        cousin, Mary, the daughter of Cephas Hawks, Jr.; and Sady could possibly have
                                        been Zadie Purl, who appears frequently in the journal. Alice had both cousins
                                        and acquaintances named Frank, Albert, Emma, Ella, Anna, even Calista; thus, it
                                        is almost impossible to determine the person to whom she refers. Hereafter, the
                                        proper names of Alice's friends and family will be provided in brackets
                                        or footnotes only if they can be definitely identified.
                           
                              5 Marian James, The Elder Sister (
                                            New York
                                        , 1855).
                        
                        
                        He was at 
                                        Buffalow
                                     and we expect him home Saturday Jan 3rd Have been at
                                    home all day. Made me a pair of drawrs, finished one miten and began the other one.
                                    Think I have done a good days work. Finished my book. Oh if I only had an older
                                    sister or brother to go to how I should love them but I am the oldest and must try
                                    and make the little ones love me. And I must try and help mother more and lighten
                                    the care that is on her mind. I am going to begin with the new year and try
                        
                           Jan 4th. Pa came home to day and Oh how glad we were to see him. I
                                    guess he will stay at home a while now.
                        It is so much pleasenter when he is at home. Jan 5th Went to church
                                    twice to day and to sabbath school. Jan 6th Started to school to
                                    day and hope we shall not have to stop again for the next six months I am getting
                                    behind all the rest of the girls I have been out of school so long next week I am
                                    going to bring my latin book home and study every evening. I am afraid I have not
                                    done much so far to help mother.
                        I must get up every morning as soon as I wake and go right to work
                        
                           Jan 7th I have just got home from uncle Cephases, have been
                                    spending the evening there and had a very nice time. Got Lews slippers commenst to
                                    day but did not get much done on them.6
                                    Jan 9th I did not write any last night for it was so late when I
                                    got my slipper done and I was two tired
                        I went down to the round house in the morning and stayed till allmost one O clock.7 had a real nice time but did not see hardly any one that I
                                    knew
                        Came home and went to work at Lews Slippers and got them ready to bind. Gave them to
                                    him to night
                        Today went to school and studed so hard I have had the headache first time I ever
                                    hurt my self studying have been to meeting the evening
                        
                           
                              6 Lewis, Alice's cousin, is the son of Chauncey
                                        and Emma Brown Hascall. It is quite possible that he was attending school away
                                        from home during the time period covered by Alice's journal.
                           
                              7 After several abortive attempts to charter a railroad
                                        company that would build through 
                                            Goshen
                                        , citizens of the town persuaded the 
                                            Michigan
                                         Southern and Northern Indiana Railroad, which reached 
                                            Elkhart
                                         in 1851, to extend a spur and run at least one train per day to 
                                            Goshen
                                        . The company also agreed to build a roundhouse—a
                                        switching area for trains passing through the station and a place to take on or
                                        uncouple cars—on the east side of town if residents would purchase
                                        and donate a tract of land therefor. The land was donated, the roundhouse was
                                        erected, and the railroad reached 
                                            Goshen
                                         in 1852. In addition to boosting the town and surrounding area
                                        economically, the station, the roundhouse, and the daily arrival and departure
                                        of the trains provided social diversions for the citizens of 
                                            Goshen
                                        . Troop transports during the war apparently evoked a combination of
                                        patriotism and excited curiosity. Anthony Deahl, ed., A Twentieth
                                            Century History and Biographical Record of 
                                                Elkhart County
                                            , Indiana (
                                            Chicago
                                        , 1905), 200-204. See also John F. Stover, Iron Road to
                                            the West: American Railroads in the 1850s (
                                            New York
                                        , 1978), 148-50.
                        
                        
                        
                           Jan 12th I have not writen any for the last three days. I have been
                                    to Sunday school and meeting to day but have not read much. There has not any thing
                                    particular happened this week
                        
                           Jan 18th It is just a week ago today since I have writen any in my
                                    Journal.
                        I do not have any thing to write about but I ought to learn to
                        write down my thoughts and this is something I nead very much It would be a great
                                    help to me in writing compositions. This has been a long day to me there has been no
                                    sabbath school and no meeting this evening.
                        I have writen to Lew and commenst a letter to aunt Helen. I guess she will think I am
                                    never going to answer her letter
                        To day is Dwights birthday he is eleven years almost six years younger than I am Jan 21st Went to school to day as usual and got alond with my
                                    studies very well Have made quite a commenstment on my composition and feel very
                                    much releaved
                        The sleigh bells are jingleing all the time but not any of them come here I think
                                    some one mint [?] come and take me aride Jan 22nd I brought home
                                    my books this evening and was going to study went and built a fire in the parlor an
                                    got one lesson and part of another when Albert came for me to go sleigh riding and
                                    that was too great a temptation to be withstood so I let lessons go and went
                                        riding.8 We went up and got Zadie Purll and went across the
                                    prarie came pretty near having a runaway and being up set. The first time I have
                                    been out riding this year. Jan 23rd I have finished my composition
                                    and writen a long letter to Lew this evening.
                        Poor fellow I guess he is getting rather home sick I feel as if I had a great load
                                    off my minde I hope I shall not have to write one next week
                        Mother and father have gone to 
                                        Waterford
                                     and have not got back yet but I think it is most time fifteen minutes
                                    to ten. Jan 27 I have not writen any for two or three days. I do
                                    not remember what I did friday. Saturday I fixed mothers calico dress for me and got
                                    it too long. To day I began the cuf to aunt Emmas undersleaves and I must fix
                                    fathers slippers this week. It has rained all day I got very wet coming home this
                                    eavening. if it keeps on much langer I am afraid we shall have an other freshet
                                    There has been another battle and Zolicofer is killed9 I wish it
                                    was two or three 
                              
                                 8 Albert was probably Alice's cousin, Albert
                                            Hawks.
                              
                                 9 Confederate Brigadier General Felix K. Zollicoffer,
                                            a journalist and politician, served in the western theater of the Civil War
                                            and commanded troops in the defense of eastern 
                                                Kentucky
                                            . Defeated in January, 1862, at 
                                                Mill Springs
                                            , 
                                                Kentucky
                                            , by forces under Brigadier General George H. Thomas,
                                            Zollicoffer's men were forced back across the Cumberland
                                                River into 
                                                Tennessee
                                            , and Zollicoffer was killed at a place called variously 
                                                Fishing Creek
                                            , 
                                                Mill Springs
                                            , 
                                                Somerset
                                            , 
                                                Logan's Cross Road
                                            , and 
                                                Beech Grove
                                            . A questionable strategist, as well as being nearsighted,
                                            Zollicoffer was said to be out in front of his poorly positioned lines clad
                                            in an easily spotted white rubber raincoat at the time of his death. See
                                            John S. Bowman, ed., The Civil War Almanac (
                                                New York
                                            , 1982), 65, 72, 81; Mark Mayo Boatner III, The
                                                Civil War Dictionary (
                                                New York
                                            , 1954), 954.
                           
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                     more of those rebel generals. I hope from this
                                    time on there will be no more defeats of our side
                        
                           Feb 2nd I have ent writen any since last monday. It is a shame but
                                    I do not have much to write about and so I put it off. I am siting here alone mother
                                    has lain down with Jo. Em has just got home from meeting she has joined the church I
                                    wonder if she is any happier than she did before10 Some times I
                                    think I should like to be a Christian Pa has got to go away tomorrow I do think it
                                    is too bad it does seam as though some of the rest of them might go
                        
                           Feb 5th. Father went last night and we are alone again. After
                                    father went a way Em came after me to go down to aunt Marys.11
                                    When we got there Foster and a friend of his was there but they soon went away and
                                    then we had a real nice time but when we came home Foster had to stick his nose in
                                    and had to come along.
                        
                           Feb 7th There hasent not any thing unusial happened since I wrote
                                    last till to day and this has been a day of excitement The regament went away to day
                                    I went with Mr and Mrs Free to the camp this morning and came back just ahead of the
                                    soldiers stoped at [home to] get warm and Willie came to. bid us good bye.12 Then we went down to the cars and stayed till noon.
                        This afternoon I visited Miss Bakers school with Zadie tomorrow Zadie and I are going
                                    up to 
                                        Waterford
                                     and expect to have a good time Feb 13th I do not keep
                                    my journal very regular. It is now nearly a week since I have writen any I have so
                                    much to 
                              
                                 10 Various branches of the Hawks family were members
                                            of Methodist, Presbyterian, and Episcopal churches. Alice's
                                            mother's family, the Browns, were Methodists, and Alice's
                                            immediate family attended the Methodist church, which, like other
                                            evangelicals, required a conscious profession of faith for membership. For
                                            the official rule on membership in the Methodist church, see The Doctrines and Discipline of the Methodist Episcopal Church,
                                            1864 (
                                                Cincinnati
                                            , 1866), 37.
                              
                                 11 Mary Jane Hawks's first husband, Joseph
                                            Peck, died on a trip with Joel P. Hawks to 
                                                California
                                             in 1852. She later married the Reverend H. B. Beers and after
                                            his death H. H. Hitchcock.
                              
                                 12 Alice probably refers to the 48th Indiana Volunteer
                                            Infantry Regiment, which was organized in December, 1861, by E. W. H. Ellis,
                                            at one time her uncle by marriage to Minerva Jennette Brown. According to
                                            Ellis, his son, by an earlier marriage to Maria Crozier, entered this
                                            regiment as a private. Whether or not this was the case, William R. Ellis
                                            appears on the muster role in January, 1862, as a sergeant. He was later
                                            promoted to lieutenant, then to captain, and was mustered out in January,
                                            1865. He may be the Willie to whom Alice refers. Camp Ellis, located on the
                                            fairgrounds about two miles south of 
                                                Goshen
                                             on what is now State Road 33, was named after E. W. H. Ellis.
                                            The camp was approximately six blocks from Alice's home and was
                                            used as a temporary holding station for new recruits. William H. H. Terrell,
                                                Indiana, in the War of the Rebellion: Vol. I, Report of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana
                                            (1869; reprint, Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XLI; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1960), 572, 564; E. W. H. Ellis, "Autobiography of a
                                            Noted Pioneer," Indiana Magazine of History, X
                                            (March, 1914), 71; [William H. H. Terrell], Report of the
                                                Adjutant General of the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1866-1869), II, 479, 480-81, V, 465. This work is hereafter
                                            cited as Report of the Adjutant General. For additional
                                            information about E. W. H. Ellis see note 50 below.
                           
                                     write that I hardly know where to begin. Last
                                    tuesday morning while we were eating breackfast Em was taken with a fit. I never was
                                    so scared so bad in my life before and I never want to be again. The docter said it
                                    was worms and we were all glad to hear it. I did not go to school that day but have
                                    been every day since Tomorrow is valentines day I wonder whose fate will be sealed,
                                    not mine I am sure. The society meets up to 
                                        Waterford
                                     tomorrow eve
                        I am going and expect to have nice times I expect there will be a crowd out.13
                        
                        Father has been gone over a week and we havent heard from him yet.
                        
                           Feb 16th I have been to meeting twice and sabbath school to day. I
                                    went up to 
                                        Waterford
                                     as I expected to friday and had a very nice time The house was full as
                                    could be. I came home with Mr Purls folks and after we had let Mrs Purl out we went
                                    and took a ride. Saturday I was at home all day and worked on Joes cap. Anna
                                    Chamberlain was here. To day I began reading thankfullness and likit very much but I
                                    know I had not ought to skip so much.14
                        
                        
                           Feb 19th Pa has not come yet I do not see what keeps him so long. I
                                    was so sure he would come this morning that I left school and went to the cars and
                                    was badly disapointed. I got a letter from Aunt Helen yesterday. She sayes little
                                    chop is dreadfull home sick away down in 
                                        Kentucky
                                    .15 Poor fellow I Shall have to finish my sock and
                                    send to him.
                        
                           Feb 20th not very well to day
                        
                           Feb 21st I visited Mrs McRaynolds school this afternoon. It was the
                                    last day and thier society meet but I dont think it amounts to much. The little
                                    girls have to do the work and I dont think it is right. After thier school was out I
                                    went to the school house. I went up to the society but did not have a very good time
                                    The best part of it was the ride home. It was twelve oclock when I got home and
                                    therefore I feel rather sleepy to night
                        
                           
                              13 Many Protestant denominations had women's
                                        societies and charitable societies, which performed the churches'
                                        outreach programs but obviously also served as important social outlets in small
                                        towns. These societies are usually praised by historians for their official
                                        functions, but Alice's diary provides a strikingly different viewpoint.
                                        Alice records society functions as a modern teenager might record a party. No
                                        doubt it was the officially religious nature of the meetings that enabled Alice
                                        to spend so much of her time thus engaged, but her interests are much more those
                                        of a fun-loving girl than of a sober religious devotee. For some discussions of
                                        church societies, see Mary Ryan, Cradle of the Middle Class: The
                                            Family in 
                                                Oneida County
                                            , 
                                                New York
                                            , 1790-1865 (
                                            Cambridge
                                        , 
                                            Eng.
                                        , 1981).
                           
                              14 Alice might have been reading Charles Benjamin
                                        Taylor's Thankfulness, a Narrative; Comprising Passages
                                            from the Diary of the Rev. Allan Temple (
                                            New York
                                        , 1848).
                           
                              15 Neither Alice's handwriting nor the identity
                                        of the person to whom she refers is clear in this sentence. Aunt Helen is Helen
                                        Brown Elliott, Alice's mother's sister, who lived in 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        .
                        
                        
                        
                           
                                        ELKHART COUNTY AS OF 1896,
                                            WITH OUTLINE MAP OF INDIANA INDICATING LOCATION OF ELKHART COUNTY
                                            AND GOSHEN, THE COUNTY SEAT
                              
                                    
                           
                                        Map prepared by Cathryn L. Lombardi.
                                    
                        
                        
                        
                           Feb 26th I have been at school all day. I am reading a book at aunt
                                    Belindas Ollie I like it very much16 I went skating last night
                                    and did not fall down but once We were going to try it again to night but it thawed
                                    so much we couldent. Last Sunday I did not go to meeting in the morning but went in
                                    the evening and to sabath school Mrs Baker was not there and Mr Abbot taught our
                                    class and a right smart teacher he is.17
                        
                        
                           March 3rd I did not go to school this morning becaus I did not feel
                                    very well.
                        The first spring month has come and it is snowing hard. A year ago this time there
                                    was not a bit of snow to be seen.
                        yesterday I wrote to Lew Saturday spent the afternoon at Mrs Peters. Friday evening
                                    went to the society at Mr Defreeses and had a very nice time.18
                                    I had a nice prominade with Mr Abbot I beleave that is all up to the preasent time.
                                    I do not write very regularly but I guess I Shall do better when I get my book
                        
                           March 9th We are haveing quartly meeting now. Em was baptised to
                                    day
                        I did not go up to Bell Blains yesterday.
                        Friday evening went up to Mr Purls to an oyster supper. March 10th
                                    I have been to school to day as usual. We are going to have a donation next
                                    Wednesday night19
                        
                        
                           March llth I went to the donation and I do not think I ever enjoyed
                                    my self better at such a place Zadie and Permeal [Permelia Taylor] were there. I was
                                    with them most of the evening
                        I am going tomorrow night to see the children perform. March 15th.
                                    The donation is over with childrens and all. It was real fun to watch the little
                                    children prominadeing around there as big as any one. March 16th.
                                    I am glad there is no school tomorrow I am so sleepy tonight I can hardly hold my
                                    eyes open It does not agree with me to be out two nights in succession.
                        
                           
                              16 Neither the complete title nor the author of this book
                                        has been identified.
                           
                              17 This is possibly Frank Abbott, who later married
                                        Alice's cousin, Jeanette Hascall.
                           
                              18 The Defrees family was prominent in the political and
                                        economic development of 
                                            Elkhart
                                         and 
                                            St. Joseph counties
                                         and of the state of Indiana during the mid-nineteenth century. A
                                        resident of 
                                            Goshen
                                         from 1833 until his death in 1885, Joseph H. Defrees served for a
                                        time as 
                                            Elkhart County
                                         sheriff, for several terms in the Indiana House of Representatives
                                        and Senate, and for one term in the 
                                            United States
                                         House of Representatives. Defrees was also president of the 
                                            Goshen City
                                         National Bank; president of the 
                                            Cincinnati
                                        , 
                                            Wabash
                                        , and 
                                            Michigan
                                         Railroad; a merchant; newspaper editor and publisher; and
                                        manufacturer. His brother John D. Defrees was also an influential Indiana
                                        politician, editor, and businessman. The Defreeses, who appear frequently in
                                        Alice's diary, obviously had close personal and business ties with the
                                        Hawks family. A Biographical Directory of the Indiana General
                                            Assembly: Vol. I, 1816-1899 (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1980), 97, 98; John W. Miller, Indiana Newspaper
                                            Bibliography (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1982), 401, 402.
                           
                              19 A donation party is one to which gifts are brought for
                                        the host, often a minister and his family. Alice might indeed have attended a
                                        donation held at the school for the minister, for soldiers in the field, or for
                                        soldiers' families.
                        
                        
                        It has been raining all day and good prospects for tomorrow
                        
                           March 17th Our school is going to give an exhibition some night the
                                    last of this week or the first of next and I expect it will keep me buisy the rest
                                    of the time20
                        
                        I am reading the battle fealds of our fathers to grandma21 She
                                    likes it very much. Last evening while I was reading Frank came in just as I got to
                                    the most loving part. I donot mind reading love talk to olde wimen but when it comes
                                    to nice young men I do not like it so well (March 23rd) Our
                                    exhibition is over with and I am glad of it I do not know when I have been as tired
                                    as I was last night. It went off a great deal better than I expected. The house was
                                    full and I guess every one was satisfied March 24th I do not
                                    hardly know what to do with my self to day. This evening I went over to Mr Fishes to
                                    see how he was and got an introduction to that souldier. Father went away again to
                                    day but he does not expect to be gone more than a week. Lew is at home now but
                                    expects to go back the last of this week March 27th This has been
                                    a beautifull day I went up to 
                                        Waterford
                                     this morning and took May [Mabel] with me had a real nice time went to
                                    see all the girls but Lizzie and was just starting down there when uncle came and
                                    said he was ready to go I do not know what she will think. We are going to have the
                                    society here tomorrow night March 29th The society is over with
                                    and I am so glad
                        I am so tired to night I can hardly sit up The house was full and I guess every one
                                    enjoyed them selves There was quite a lot of young folkes here Foster among the
                                    rest. March 30 I did not go to church this morning. They had an
                                    election of officers in sabbath school and elected the same officers for an other
                                    term I do not like thier puting Mrs Baker in as female supretendant but she is going
                                    to resighn next Sunday22
                        
                        
                           
                              20 School exhibitions were usually held the final week of
                                        the term and consisted of student presentations of songs, recitations, and
                                        declamations. They were given to arouse parental interest in and support for the
                                        school and were a popular form of local entertainment, often painstakingly
                                        described in the local newspapers. Fuller, Old Country School,
                                        212.
                           
                              21 Grandma was Hannah Shay Brown, Alice's
                                        maternal grandmother, who was blind for several years before her death. See
                                        Virginia Mayberry, ed., "West to Wilderness," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXIII (March, 1987), 1-16. During 1862
                                        and 1863 Arthur's Home Magazine, to which Alice
                                        subscribed (see entry for July 13, 1862), carried in successive issues
                                        "Battle Fields of Our Fathers: A Story of the Revolution" by
                                        Virginia F. Townsend. In 1864 the serialized story appeared in book form
                                        entitled Battle-Fields of Our Fathers and published by J.
                                        Bradburn of 
                                            New York
                                        .
                           
                              22 Many Sunday Schools in cities and large towns had male
                                        superintendents presiding over mostly female staffs. Methodist churches had men
                                        and women sharing these responsibilities, although the male superintendent was
                                        the only official recognized by the church hierarchy and the person who
                                        represented the school at quarterly meetings. Doctrines and
                                            Discipline, 1864, p. 55. For a discussion of the gender gap in Sunday
                                        Schools, see Anne Boylan, Sunday School: The Formation of an
                                            American Institution (
                                            New Haven
                                        , 1988), 114-26.
                        
                        
                        
                           April 1st To day is all fools day and I have been fooled once I
                                    should like to know what gave rise to that practise. Anna Chaimberlain has been hear
                                    all most all the afternoon.23 This evening Albert took Ella
                                    Zadie and me up to 
                                        Waterford
                                     We had a real nice ride it was so pleasent.
                        
                           April 4th Mother and I have worked in the garden all day to day.
                                    This evening Mr and Mrs Free and Ella C- went horseback rideing. When they came back
                                    I was out at the gate and Mr Free halowed to me to come and take a little ride so I
                                    went and got on Mrs Free's horse and Frank got on Mr Frees horse and we
                                    took a ride we went about too and a half miles April 6th. I went
                                    to church this morning Mr Comstock preached to the sabbath school.24
                                    April 7th Mother and I washed to day. Just after we got the cloths
                                    out it began snowing and raining and such weather as we have since. April 9th I am going to school again.
                        We have not got our ironing done yet The cloths are out on the line frozen stif
                        This evening I went over to aunt Emmas to take Franks books home and I was siting
                                    there when Frank took a teting [tatting] needle out of his pockit and asked me if it
                                    would holde as much thread as mine and after I had praised it up very highly he made
                                    me a preasent of it.
                        I did not hardly know wheather I ought to take it or not but I did
                        
                           April llth I have been to the society this evening and enjowed my
                                    self very well. It met at Mrs Nortens [Asa Norton]. There was a real good turn out
                                    of young folkes
                        I do not see why I dont get my MagazinEddie has got his.
                        
                           
                              23 Like the Browns, Hawkses, Ellises, and Defreeses, the
                                        Chamberlain family arrived in the 
                                            Goshen
                                         area of 
                                            Elkhart County
                                         during the mid-1830s. Ebenezer M. Chamberlain, a lawyer, served
                                        several terms in the Indiana House of Representatives and Senate and one term in
                                        the 
                                            United States
                                         House of Representatives. He was also at various times the 
                                            Goshen
                                         postmaster, prosecuting attorney for the 9th circuit, and president
                                        judge for the 9th district. In 1838 Chamberlain married Phoebe Ann Hascall,
                                        sister of Chauncey Hascall, Alice's uncle by marriage. Chamberlain was
                                        also at one time associated with Ebenezer Brown, Alice's maternal
                                        grandfather, in the publication of the 
                                            Goshen
                                        
                                        Democrat, for which E. W. H. Ellis was employed as editor.
                                        Anna, Ella, and Emma Chamberlain appear frequently in Alice's journal.
                                            Biographical Directory of the Indiana General Assembly, I,
                                        60; Ellis, "Autobiography of a Noted Pioneer," 66; H. S. K.
                                        Bartholomew, "Old Landmarks of 
                                            Goshen
                                        ," Indiana Magazine of History, XXIX
                                        (September, 1933), 198.
                           
                              24 The Reverend Thomas Comstock served as the Methodist
                                        minister in 
                                            Goshen
                                         from April, 1861, to April, 1862. He was originally from 
                                            Wabash County
                                        . Abraham E. Weaver, ed., A Standard History of 
                                                Elkhart County
                                            , Indiana … (2 vols., 
                                            Chicago
                                        , 1916), I, 286; H. N. Herrick and William Warren Sweet, A History of the North Indiana Conference of the Methodist
                                            Episcopal Church, From Its Organization, in 1844 to the Present (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1917), 355.
                        
                        
                        
                           April 13th There was no meeting at our Church to day so I went to
                                    see the Catholic perform.251 never got so tired of any thing
                                    before. I left home at nine oclock this morning and did not get home till one. It
                                    was a real curiosity to see thier ceremony and I would not have missed it for
                                    anything but I dont think I shall go again very soon. Net and Will have been here to
                                    day. they start for 
                                        New York
                                     to morrow. Em is down too but she has not been here yet and she goes
                                    back in the morning so I donot expect she will come here.26
                                    April 14th I did not go to school this forenoon. Em came over and
                                    wanted me to go over to Mrs Butterfealds27 with her and so I
                                    went and staied till car time and then we went down to see Net and Will off. I felt
                                    real sorry for Em she felt so bad.
                        
                           April 16th This has been quite an important day with us. We washed
                                    to day and had not hardly got through when Mr Stabler came he is the minister here
                                    this year.28 He had not been here long when uncle Eleazer came
                                    and with him Frank Simpson and his bride She is real pretty. I took quite a fancy to
                                    her as soon as I Saw her. We had them all here to supper and three of them all
                                    night. I had to go over to aunt Emmas and stay
                        
                           April 19th After I had got my part of the Saturdays work done I
                                    fixed up and went up town and had my dagauratype taken.29
                                    
                              
                                 25 Alice's evaluation of Catholic worship is
                                            typical for her evangelical Protestant background, which shunned the
                                            elaborate liturgy and ritual of Roman Catholicism. What is most interesting
                                            in the incident is her presence in a Catholic church at a time when
                                            anti-Catholicism was still prevalent in Protestant culture throughout
                                            Indiana. For a general view of problems between Protestants and Catholics
                                            during the nineteenth century, see Ray Allen Billington, The
                                                Protestant Crusade, 1800-1860: A Study of the Origins of American
                                                Nativism (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1964). St. John's Catholic Church was established in 
                                                Goshen
                                             in 1860. Weaver, Standard History of 
                                                    Elkhart County
                                                , I, 293.
                              
                                 26 Nettie S. (Sarah Annette) was the daughter of E. W.
                                            H. Ellis, by his first marriage. Will, Net's husband, was
                                            Alice's first cousin, the son of Albert Hawks. The Em mentioned
                                            here was probably Net's half-sister, Emma Maria, the daughter of E.
                                            W. H. Ellis by his second marriage to Minerva Jennette Brown and thus
                                            Alice's first cousin. She was eight years old at the time.
                              
                                 27 Butterfield is a name more closely associated with 
                                                Elkhart
                                             than with 
                                                Goshen
                                            ; however, Alice could have been referring to Mrs. C. F.
                                            Butterfield, wife of the owner of the local livery stable, or to Mrs. John
                                            H. Butterfield.
                              
                                 28 Thomas Stabler served as Methodist minister in 
                                                Goshen
                                             from April, 1862, to April, 1863. Weaver, Standard
                                                History of 
                                                    Elkhart County
                                                , I, 286; Herrick and Sweet, History of
                                                the North Indiana Conference of the Methodist Epsicopal Church, I,
                                            357.
                              
                                 29 Daguerreotypes, dating from the late 1830s, were
                                            the first popular form of photography; but the process had many
                                            difficulties, including long exposure time (necessitating long still poses),
                                            fragility, and expense. Tintypes, employing a faster and cheaper type of
                                            processing, largely replaced daguerreotypes in the 1850s. The images
                                            produced were sturdier and much cheaper, and portrait photography became
                                            widely popular. Alice may refer to an image made by either of these
                                            processes. Unfortunately, no early portraits of Alice are available, perhaps
                                            because they suffered the fate of this likeness. For a history of the two
                                            processes, see Beaumont Newhall, The History of Photography:
                                                From 1839 to the Present Day (rev. ed., 
                                                New York
                                            , 1964), 17-28, 47-50.
                           
                                     It was enough to scare any one. Mother sayes she
                                    never saw one look so cross. I am not going to keep it.
                        I had just got home and got my dressed chaned when Aund Belinda came and told us
                                    where we could get a girl and I started right off to see but did not get her.
                        
                           April 20th I did not go to church this morning but went to sabbath
                                    school and to meeting this evening and heard the new minister preach but did not
                                    like him very well he was so dry. Father thinks he was very much embarrassed and
                                    that may have been the reason. April 21st It has been raining all
                                    most all day. When I got home this evening I found a girl in the kitchen and I was
                                    glad enough to see her if it was no one but Mary Potter30
                        
                        
                           April 24th There was no school and I went up to 
                                        Waterford
                                     with father and staid till friday evening. I had a real nice visite. I
                                    spent the evening at Mr Tyrrells.31 Charly Harris was there and
                                    he gave us some music on the banjo
                        I went over and saw Maggie Hary [Harris ?]. She had grown so much that I hardly knew
                                    her. April 25th. I came home this evening and went to the concert
                                    with uncle Eleazer and cousin Phebe. I liked it very much. April
                                    26th Ella and I did not go a calling to day as we expected to do. She was here
                                    and spent the afternoon and Anna Chaimberlain was here a little while This evening I
                                    went to the panarama. I liked it a greatdeel better than the concert They have one
                                    of Doc Hanes dogs with them it is the only one there is living.32 When I got home Mr Stabler was here and I had to go over to aunt Emma and
                                    stay. I have had an introduction to Hareson after meating him so many times and
                                    runing away. May 1st This was a very pleasant day. I do not know
                                    what I did. May 10th Father and mother went up to Benton to day
                                    and did not get back till quite late. I went up to Mrs Knaps and got my bonnet and
                                    like it very much.
                        
                           M 19. This has been a very exciteing day with us. Aunt Emma went
                                    this after non about all the town have been helping her to day.33 This evening pa came in and tolde me I had better go 
                              
                                 30 Mary Potter worked for the Hawkses as a hired girl
                                            from time to time. It was apparently very hard for them to keep help.
                              
                                 31 Hubert Tyrrell was a clerk in the Hawkses'
                                            general store in 
                                                Waterford
                                            .
                              
                                 32 A panorama was a large roll of canvas painted with
                                            historical scenes or landscapes; it was usually unwound as a speaker
                                            described its contents. The effect was to give the viewers a continuously
                                            changing view. Panoramas often traveled around the country. One panorama of
                                            the 
                                                Mississippi
                                             valley, half a mile long and twelve feet high, toured America,
                                            Europe, and the Far East and was acclaimed "as one of the great
                                            attractions of the age." Panoramas often toured with other
                                            attractions. Foster Rhea Dulles, A History of Recreation:
                                                America Learns to Play (2nd ed., 
                                                New York
                                            , 1965), 155-56.
                              
                                 33 It is possible that Emma Brown Hascall was going to
                                            visit relatives in 
                                                Penn Yan
                                            , 
                                                New York
                                            , where the Browns had lived until they emigrated to Indiana.
                                            Emma was fourteen when the family moved to 
                                                Elkhart County
                                            .
                           
                                     out and cover the peach trees so Mary and I went
                                    out and while we were there Frank came out and wanted to know what we were doing and
                                    I told him he got up on the fence and helped us. We had a regular jubelee May 20th. It was a good thing for us that we covered our things up
                                    last night for there was a heavy frost. Franks little bird did not tell him the
                                    truth. I have been to school all day. May 23rd. This has been a
                                    great day with us at school. This afternoon Maty and May came to school so late they
                                    were ashamed to come in so they came around to our windo and got in but Mrs Metcalfe
                                    caught them and they had to climb out again and go around and climb in at the front
                                    window.
                        I have been to the society this evening at Mrs Baker and had a very nice time the
                                    house was just as full as it could be. May 24th Ella and I were
                                    going calling this afternoon and I got all ready but puting on my dress when she
                                    came up and said she couldent go so we thought that long twordes evening we would go
                                    over to the shop and see them work, when we got there Frank took us all around and
                                    taught me how to make sash.34
                        
                        
                           May 26th Have been to school to day we washed as we all-ways do on
                                    monday. I stoped to see Mrs Free this evening. When they get setteled I think they
                                    will look real nice
                        When I started home she gave me a can of cherries to bring home she was afraid they
                                    were begining to spoil and she wanted them used up.
                        
                           M 28th We are haveing beautifull weather. Aunt Belinda and Matie
                                    started today Mate was in a real fuss all day. I expect she will worry about Eddie
                                    [Edwin Hawks, Mattie's brother] all the time she is gone May
                                        31 Ella and I went up to 
                                        Waterford
                                     and spent the day at uncle Eleazers. For a wonder I did not go any
                                    where els but it has been such a bad day I could not go out it rained most all the
                                    time.
                        
                           June 1st it has been very unpleasant all day. I did not go to
                                    church this morning for Mary was gone and we could not all go. I ought to have
                                    writen to Lew to day but did not I expect he will scold when he gets home
                        
                           June 2nd What a day this has been It has rained all day in torrents
                                    I got as wet as a drowned rat comeing home and going to school.
                        
                           June third, it has been cloudy all day but has not rained. This
                                    evening after school Emma, May Harris and I went after moss and when we were coming
                                    back we met Docter and Mrs Benton out horse back rideing and they said if I had been
                                    at home I could have 
                              
                                 34 This business, begun by a Mr. Albright in 1856, was
                                            a forerunner of 
                                                Goshen
                                            
                                            
                                                Sash
                                             and 
                                                Door
                                            , which was not established until 1869. Weaver, Standard History of 
                                                    Elkhart County
                                                , I, 208-209.
                           
                                     gone and when I got home I got pa to let me to
                                    go. So I started alone but I soon met them and then my horse began to act bad and
                                    such a time as I had the rest of them was a great deal more
                                    fritened than I was. June 5th This had been a very pleasent day.
                                    This afternoon when I got home from school I went over to Aunt Emmas and Ella and
                                    Nell Sealy was there. I do not admire Nell very much.
                        We had company this afternoon. Mr and Mrs Stabler and children were here to tea. June 6th I have been to the society this evening but did not enjoy
                                    my self very well It was at Dr [W. H.] Coovers, and the house was crowded.
                        Nell Sealy was there and she is the rudeist girl I ever saw. The more I see of her
                                    the less I like her.
                        
                           June 7th This is Mothers birthday she was 38 years old. I wonder if
                                    I shall ever live to be as old as that. I had a real nice ride to night went up to 
                                        Waterford
                                     and back. I was out till 9 oclock.
                        
                           June 8th. This has been a beautifull day. Every one is out riding.
                        I have been to meeting twice and to Sunday school. I spent the time betwen meating
                                    and sabbath school in looking at pictures. June 9th This evening
                                    when I came home from school I went over to Aunt Emmas and Ella was there and we
                                    went up to Mr Frees to see if we could have his horses to take a ride but they were
                                    at work so we was disappointed
                        When I got back Ella Beers was here and wanted me to take a walk and off I went again
                                    and had a very pleasent walk
                        
                           June 11. This has been quite an eventfull day. This afternoon Em
                                    Albert came down and this evening we got up a horse back ride. Aunt Mary and Mr and
                                    Mrs Stabler went first as we had before arainged and after they got back Ella Emma
                                    father and I went. It was nine Oclock when we started and eleven when we got back.
                                    When we stoped Frank was standing at the corner and came and helped us off and then
                                    we staid out there to see the eclipe and had great times35 I
                                    expect the neighbors all around heard us laugh. Frank is the greatest fellow I ever
                                    saw. As soon as it got to be totle Sadie went home and we all went along. It was
                                    almost one Oclock when we went to bed. June 12th This after noon
                                    Em and I went over to the shop and stood around there awhile. Frank was there but
                                    not at work so he hadent any thing to do but to entertain us When we came away he
                                    came with us and when we got up onto the rail road he proposed that we should walk
                                    down the track a 
                              
                                 35
                                            
                                                Indianapolis
                                             banker Calvin Fletcher, who was on a trip to 
                                                Vermont
                                             in June, 1862, describes in detail the total eclipse of the
                                            moon that occurred on June 11. He concludes, "At one by my watch it
                                            was totally obscured with a yellowish color." Gayle Thornbrough,
                                            Dorothy L. Riker, and Paula Corpuz, eds., The Diary of Calvin
                                                Fletcher. Vol. VII, 1861-1862, Including Letters to
                                                and from Calvin Fletcher (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1980), 443.
                           
                                     little ways and when we got to the nursery he
                                    wanted to go in and see if they had any strawberrys but they hadent any and he said
                                    he was determing to have some then and so we went down to Mr Winders and got some of
                                    the nicest I ever saw We sat out on the grass in the shade and eat them.
                        Em had her picture in her pocket and Frank saw it and got it away from her and they
                                    had areal scuffel after it but he kept it. Aunt Sarah [Watkus Hawks] and Mrs
                                    Butterfield were here to tea.
                        This has been a very pleasant day to me and yet a sad one. When we got home Mother
                                    told me that Em had had another fit I am glad that I was not here. It always
                                    happenes when father is gone.
                        He started to 
                                        New York
                                     just this fore noon. I guess she paid pretty dearly for seeing the
                                    eclips.
                        
                           June 13th This afternoon I went and laid down for I thought I
                                    should have to be up the fore part of the night to give Em medicin. I had just got
                                    into a dose when Ella came up after me to go down there so I brushed down my hair
                                    and went. After tea we went to take a walk and Emma came home with me and stayed all
                                    night.
                        We went over to aunt Emmas to stay and we sat up till allmost eleven waiting for
                                    Frank to come so Em could get her picture but he did not come and we had to go to
                                    bead.
                        
                           June 14th After we got dressed this morning went out and sat on the
                                    front poarch till Frank came out and Em asked him for her picture but he would not
                                    let her have it and so I got him to let me take it and I have got it yet.
                        Today just as the cars came in the children were having a quarrel and making a great
                                    nois when a very familliar voice out on the walk hollawed to them to dry up and
                                    there was a run to see who it was and there stood Lew as natural as an old shoeu but
                                    I can not write any more to night it is getting so late. June 16th
                                    I have been to school all day. The Episcopals had a festival this evening but I did
                                    not go36 Pa was gone and I would had to have gone a lone and I
                                    prefered staying at home. This evening I fixed strings to all our vines.
                        
                           June 17th This evening when I got home from school Mother told me I
                                    had an invitation to take a horseback ride and I thought as soon as she spoke that
                                    it was from Albert but it was from uncle Cephas. He was going out to Mr Mercers and
                                    wanted me to go with him37
                        
                        
                           
                              36 St. James, the Episcopal church in 
                                            Goshen
                                        , was established in 1859. Chas. C. Chapman, pub., History of 
                                                Elkhart County
                                             … (
                                            Chicago
                                        , 1881), 634-35.
                           
                              37 A resident of 
                                            Goshen
                                         from age twelve, Milton Mercer farmed, kept store, managed various
                                        banks in 
                                            Goshen
                                         from 1858 until 1873, and held an interest in the construction of
                                        the Air Line branch of the Lake Shore Railroad. He served also as director of
                                        two additional railroads and in numerous elective offices including that of
                                        state representative. Undoubtedly the Mercer and Hawks families were friends as
                                        well as business associates. Biographical Directory of the Indiana
                                            General Assembly, I, 269; H. S. K. Bartholomew, Pioneer
                                            History of 
                                                Elkhart County
                                            , Indiana, with Sketches and Stories (
                                            Goshen
                                        , Ind., 1930), 58.
                        
                        
                        We had a very pleasant ride indeed.
                        
                           June 18th This evening after school I went over to see Permeal
                                    Taylor her brother is here and she is at home this week.
                        I maid a real long call. I like her more and more every time I see her. Her brother
                                    is a right smart young chap with wiskers and moustach to perfection and thinks him
                                    self about right Oh how I dislike self conceat.
                        
                           June 19th This has been an other day of excitement. It seames as if
                                    some thing was hapning all the time.
                        When I came home at noon who should come runing to meet me but Net and I went in to
                                    see Aunt Emma and what confusion every one was talking and no one listning.
                        Tomorrow Frank will be home and Saturday we hope father will be here. I got a letter
                                    from him to night telling me of the death of Hellen Sutherland poor Mr S- is greatly
                                    afflicted. This evening Em and I went over to Mr Fishe's and she gave us
                                    quite a number of plants. I like her very much. I thinke they must have had a
                                    beautifull garden where they came from.
                        
                           June 20th The boys got home to day. I went in when School was out
                                    to see them but they had not got up to the house yet and so I met them. They were
                                    both glad enough to get home. Albert put his arms around my neck and gave me such a
                                    smack that the girls who were way ahead of me said they heard him.
                        Frank was not quite so demonstrative. I went to the society this evening with Frank
                                    Rosslienin it is the first time I have ever gone any where with a gentleman.38
                        
                        The house was full and every one seamed to enjoy them selves. It was at Mr Rowels and
                                    I did not think many of the young folks would go but they were all there.39
                        
                        
                           June 21st Oh how sleepy have been all day till Ella came up and
                                    then I got over it. She stayed to tea and after tea we went and took a walk. When I
                                    got home I mended my gater
                        I have been making Mary a net to day and thought I should get it done but did not.40 Mrs Weer wis in to day and brought me 
                              
                                 38 Various of Alice's male cousins may have
                                            been in college at this time. Some were schooled in 
                                                Michigan
                                            , some in the East. Alice may have attended society with Frank
                                            (Francis) B. Rosslewyn who a short time later volunteered and served first
                                            as sergeant, then as lieutenant, in Company E of the 74th Volunteer Infantry
                                            Regiment. His surname is variously spelled in Report of the
                                                Adjutant General, II, 686, 687, 691, VI, 205.
                              
                                 39 George P. Rowell, another early 
                                                Elkhart County
                                             settler, owned extensive acreage contiguous to 
                                                Goshen
                                             and to 
                                                Milford
                                             as well as valuable property in 
                                                Goshen
                                             itself. The greatest part of his wealth, however, was acquired
                                            in the manufacture of agricultural implements. Lucy S. Rowell, his daughter,
                                            is mentioned in the entry of June 30, 1862, in Alice's journal.
                                            Goodspeed Bros., pub., Pictorial and Biographical Memoirs of 
                                                    Elkhart
                                                , 
                                                    St. Joseph Counties
                                                , Indiana … (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1893), 564-65; Bartholomew, Pioneer History of 
                                                    Elkhart County
                                                , 216-17.
                              
                                 40 Hairnets were very popular in women's
                                            fashions from the late 1850s through the Civil War period. Nets were often
                                            homemade and could be very simple or quite elaborate depending on the types
                                            of materials and decoration used. See descriptions in Robert Kunciov, ed.,
                                                Mr. Godey's Ladies: Being a Mosaic of Fashions
                                                & Fancies (
                                                Princeton
                                            , 
                                                N.J.
                                            , 1971), 59.
                           
                                     Some thread to make her neices eact a net so I
                                    expect I shall have nothing to do but make nets for the next two weeks.
                        We got a letter from father this evening and he will not be home till Wednesday
                                    afternoon.
                        
                           June 22. I have been about half sick to day. I laid down after the
                                    folks had gone to meeting and slept till they came home then I got up and got ready
                                    for Sabbath school. I laid down again this afternoon and took another nap and when I
                                    got up and came out here sat uncle Cephas and Frank. I went to church this evening
                                    but was so sleepy that I did not hear much of the sermon.
                        
                           June 23 I started to school this morning and met Dwight coming home
                                    to tell me that Mrs Metcalf was sick and there was no school so I have been at home
                                    all day
                        
                           June 24. This evening I brought home my lattin books and was going
                                    to study ever so hard and when I got home ma told me that I was invited to a party
                                    at Mr Defreeses. I did not study much after that. At first I did not want to go but
                                    mother thought I had better and I am glad I did. I had a very pleasent time. I was
                                    introduced to and prominaded with Capt. Mitchel41 also with Mr
                                    Jonson who in the course of conversation I found to be an old scholar of Mrs Metcalf
                                    I liked his appearance very much. I took supper with Mr Coover. There was no less
                                    than seven or eight lawyers there. It was half past one when I got home.
                        
                           June 25th This morning Frank came down here at five oclock and
                                    roused us all up to see if I wanted to go to 
                                        Warsaw
                                     with him but I did not go. Oh how sleapy I have been to day. School is
                                    out tomorrow and I am so glad. June 26 I have been to school to
                                    day for the last time for at least two months. At noon when I went up to school I
                                    stoped at Mr Frees to see if I could have his horse this evening and he said I might
                                    so this evening I had Dwight get her up for me and I went up to 
                                        Waterford
                                     and rod back with father he got home yesterday. When I went up there
                                    father brought out a very nice pair of buckskin gloves with gauntlets which he said
                                    a young man in 
                                        New York
                                     sent to me. June 27th This has seamed just like
                                    Saturday to me being out of school I suppose makes it.
                        This morning I went up to see Calista and was there all most all the fore noon She
                                    hasent changed abit her schooldays are over with I suppose she is ready to marry
                                    now. This has been a very hot day. This evening the presbyterion ladyes are having a
                                    festival in the grove back of Mrs Harris house I wanted to go real bad but could not
                                    as I had no one to go with but I guess I shall 
                              
                                 41 Joseph A. S. Mitchell was captain of Company K of
                                            the 41st Volunteer Infantry Regiment (2nd Cavalry) from 1862 to 1865. After
                                            the war he was an attorney in 
                                                Goshen
                                             for many years and also served as mayor of the town. Higgins,
                                            Belden, & Co., pubs., Historical Atlas of 
                                                    Elkhart County
                                                , Indiana (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1874), 19; Adjutant General's
                                            Report, II, 410-11.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              
                                            CEPHAS HAWKS, JR.DALINDA BLISS HAWKS
                                 
                                        
                              Courtesy Troyer Studios, Inc., 
                                                Goshen
                                            , Ind
                           
                                     survive it. Mary went home this afternoon and
                                    will not be back till Sunday and I shall have to do the work.
                        
                           June 28th I am so glad I did not go to the festival last night for
                                    it rained hard all most all the evening and was pitch dark.
                        I have been sewing on the machine all the afternoon making bags for the mill.42 Mother went up to 
                                        Waterford
                                     and took Min and May and Em has had Jo over to Aunt Emmas so I have had
                                    the house all to my self.
                        
                           June 29th I have been to meeting twice and Sabbath school to day
                                    besides doing the work. We had quite a time in sabbath school today. There is a
                                    class there that want me for teacher and Mrs Baker was determined I should take it
                                    and I was determined I would not but they made me teachit then and I expect I shall
                                    have to keep it for pa thinks I had better.43
                        
                        
                           June 30th How strange it seams to be out of school monday. I hope
                                    now I can help mother with her sewing a great deal now. I have been to a party this
                                    evening and had a very pleasent time. It was at Mr Rowels. Lu was eightteen and her
                                    mother gave her a surprise. We met at Mr Defreeses and all went down there in a
                                    body. Lu came to the door and I never saw any one so perfectly surprised as she was.
                                    Jim and Mary Latta was there and when they came down they stoped and asked her to
                                    ride down with them and she came never suspecting a thing. Ella Buss and I went to
                                    Mr Defreeses alone but there I got a beau but Ella was not so fortunate Frank took
                                    me down there and brought me home. It was after twelve Oclock when I got home father
                                    doesent like Frank very well and doesent like to have me go with him so much but I
                                    do not think I do. Well he need not be alarmed Rose has got home there is no chance
                                    for any one els
                        
                           July 3rd May and Jo are both sick this evening. We are going to
                                    have a picnic tomorrow but if the children dont get any better I do not think I can
                                    go. July 4th Eightey six years ago this day our country men met
                                    and declaired them selves an independent O what a glorious time that was
                        
                           
                              42 The first commercial sewing machine was patented in 
                                            France
                                         in the late 1830s. Later improvements were made in America in the
                                        1840s and 1850s by Elias Howe, Isaac Merritt Singer, and others. Both because
                                        the Hawkses were comparatively well off and because they owned numerous mills in
                                        the area, it would not be unusual for them to have a sewing machine in their
                                        home. See Edward De Bono, ed., Eureka!An Illustrated History of
                                            Inventions from the Wheel to the Computer (
                                            London
                                        , 1974), 128-29. This is the only indication in Alice's
                                        diary that the female members of the Hawks family took any active part in the
                                        various businesses. Unlike many young people in small towns during the
                                        mid-nineteenth century, Alice and her siblings appear to have led a life
                                        relatively free from economic responsibilities.
                           
                              43 Sunday School teachers were usually young females. The
                                        majority of teachers were probably already converted, but many, like Alice, were
                                        pressed into service when needed. For a complete profile of teachers, see
                                        chapter four of Boylan, Sunday School.
                           
                        
                        
                        How thankfull we ought to be I went to the picknic mother said she and Mary could get
                                    along with the children
                        We did not have a very nice time or at least I did not enjoy it much
                        When I got home I had a very severe headache and I found the children worse and
                                    mother tird out takeing care of them I took Jo and held him about half an hour but
                                    he cried all the time as hard as he could
                        
                           July 5th The children are some better to day. Mary went home this
                                    afternoon and we have the work to do till Monday morning. July 6th
                                    It is Just as I expected. I have had to take that class Mr Norten put my name down
                                    as teacher.
                        Mary has not come yet but I guess she will come to morrow morning she has done so
                                    once before. July 7th This morning while I was washing the dishes
                                    Marys two brothers came after her things they said her little brother was sick and
                                    she could not come this week so here we are to do our own work. July
                                        8th This morning I was in the parlor dusting when in comes Mrs Baker to
                                    tell us that they were going to have a festival tomorrow night and she wanted me to
                                    come up to Mr Defreeses this after noon to make fancy lamps to decorate the yard
                                    with for if it is pleasant they are going to have it is the court yard if not in the
                                    hall so I have been up there all the after noon. July 9th What a
                                    buisey day this has been with us. We have washed and Ironed and got ready for the
                                    festival
                        Em and I went. The house was full (for they had to have it in the hall) and I guess
                                    every one enjoyed them selves
                        I ate two dishes of ice cream one with Frank Hawks and the other with Mr Norten
                        
                           July 13th I was two tired last night to wright The Saturdays work
                                    was more yesterday than it has been before in some time and besids my Arthurs came
                                    and I wanted to read.44 I have been to church and sabbath
                                    school. It has been rainy all day
                        
                           July 14th Mary did not come last night and to day we engaged
                                    another girl to day she will be here tomorrow. I am so glad.
                        May has been very sick to day and I am not much better I have had such a pane under
                                    my shoulder all day I could hardly breath
                        
                           June [July] 15th We got another girl today and I am glad enough for
                                    I do not feel much like work or any thing els.
                        
                           June [July] 17th What a time we are having Em is sick to day.
                                    Yesterday she picked cherries all the after noon and this 
                              
                                 44 Alice did subscribe to Arthur's Home Magazine, edited by Virginia F. Townsend
                                            and T. S. Arthur and published in 
                                                Philadelphia
                                            . (See note 21 above.) She might also have taken Arthur's Ladies Magazine of Elegant Literature and Fine
                                            Arts.
                              
                           
                                     morning she could not get up. This after noon
                                    uncle Eleazer was here to tea and Cousin Phebe and Sarah have been here, they asked
                                    me to go to Episcopal Society with them and I promised them I would but when Father
                                    and mother got home they thought I had better not go it was so far she said if I
                                    could ride she would not mind it so I gave up going but when they came they had the
                                    carraig and was going to ride over so ma told me I might go and so I did and had a
                                    pretty good time. July 19th This morning mother and I was going to
                                    do So much Sewing and Father came down and said there was a lot of cherries up to
                                    the store that were begining to sour and wanted to know if mother wanted any so she
                                    took them and so we have been stoning them all most all day. This evening they have
                                    all gone out riding but Dwight May and I May poor thing went to sleep and got
                                    cheated out of it.
                        Yesterday Ella and I went up to 
                                        Waterford
                                     and spent the day and had a real nice time. Aunt Sarah Em and Albert
                                    were there to tea. We got home just in time to go to the society and I went just as
                                    I was.
                        I never had so poor a time at the methodist society. I do not believe I shall go
                                    again very soon.
                        
                           July 20th This morning Em Father and I went up to 
                                        Waterford
                                     to meeting and did not get back till after sabbath school had opened.
                                    It was quarterly meeting and it is the first one that I have been to since we mooved
                                    down here that seemed like quarterly meeting.45 It was real
                                    pleasant to sit there and picke out the familiar faces as they came in. There was a
                                    great many that I recognized but did not remember thier names.
                        This afternoon Ella and I went over on Nortons hill to read it is so pleasant there.
                                    I had a book of Ellas called Retrospection I like it very much and am in a dredfull
                                        hurry.46
                        
                        I went to meeting this evening as usual.
                        
                           July 21st We washed to day so I had to do up the work in the
                                    morning.
                        This afternoon mother and I commenst Min a drees and should have finished it but I
                                    went to Mr Jacksons funeral at one oclock47
                                    
                              
                                 45 Quarterly meetings conducted much of the important
                                            business of Methodist churches. Among other duties they heard complaints and
                                            appeals, licensed preachers and exhorters, and supervised Sunday Schools.
                                            Quarterly meetings were also a social opportunity for members of different
                                            congregations. Doctrines and Discipline, 1864, pp. 54-59.
                                            Alice's homesickness for 
                                                Waterford
                                             and its familiar faces is apparent here.
                              
                                 46 The Asa Norton family, frequently mentioned in
                                            Alice's journal, lived near Alice's mother's
                                            family during the 1830s. The Norton property is still marked on County Road
                                            18, north of 
                                                Goshen
                                            . Alice may have been reading Hester Lynch Piozzi's Retrospection; or, a Review of the Most Striking and Important
                                                Events, Characters, Situations, and Their Consequences, which the Last
                                                Eighteen Hundred Years Have Presented to the View of Mankind
                                            … (2 vols., 
                                                London
                                            , 1801).
                              
                                 47 Alice may have been referring to the funeral of Dr.
                                            William Jackson, a young man, who died July 20, 1862, of poison inducted
                                            while assisting in a postmortem examination. Historical Atlas
                                                of 
                                                    Elkhart County
                                                , 24.
                           
                                     and at five Oclock went to a soldiers funeral
                                    and part of the time betwen was spent in making cartridges for Chamberlains
                                    batterry. The lieutenant a right smart looking chap came here with some to be made
                                    and we never asked him to sit down I think it was a perfect shame for us to treat a
                                    lieutenant so. After we got back from the last funeral I took the horse and took the
                                    children a short ride and then Ella and I went up and called on Zade Purll.
                        
                           July 22nd I ironed a little while this morning and then sat down
                                    and helped mother finish Mins dress and then we maid one for Jo and commenst one for
                                    May.
                        Aunt Emma and I went up to 
                                        Waterford
                                     this afternoon and I had a fuss with Mr Tyrrell he did not want me to
                                    go behind the counter but I did and he did not like it.
                        I guess he will find he cannot rule the world. After we got back I took my work and
                                    went down to aunt Mary's.
                        
                           July 26th What a buissy week this has been. I have not had time to
                                    write any since last tuesday
                        Wednesday morning when I woke up allmost the first thing I heard was aunt Emma
                                    telling may that there was a little baby in the bed room with ma and I just lay down
                                    and cryed
                        It would be imposible to tell how I felt. I have been wanting to go away to school in
                                    about a year but every time I have said any thing about it mother has said I must
                                    not think about it for there is so many here to educate and now there is another one
                                    to be clothed and educated48
                        
                        Last night I was out horseback riding and had just a grand ride it is the first time
                                    I have been out any since the baby was borne. Billy is the nicest horse ever was he
                                    does not scare at any thing hardly. I rode him close up to where they were firing
                                    the cannon and he dident start at all. I heard several say as I was passing Oh isent
                                    that a nice riding horse.
                        I went to meeting after I got home and heard the minister from 
                                        Waterford
                                    . I liked him very much.
                        It is quarterly meeting. I went this morning and to sabbath school and father staid
                                    at home this evening he and Angeline [a new hired girl] have gone.
                        
                           Aug 8th This is my seventeenth birthday. It does not seam as though
                                    it was posible I do not feel as olde. I used to think when I got to be seventeen
                                    years old I should do just as I pleas but how diferent I feel now.
                        I have not writen any for some time Angeline has been sick and I have had to do the
                                    work. This evening I went to the presbyterian societ at uncle Cephases, some of the
                                    children thought they 
                              
                                 48 Joel Hawks's sons received fair formal
                                            educations, but Alice's educational ambitions were never
                                        achieved.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              
                                            NEWSPAPER ADVERTISEMENTS FOR
                                                    THE HAWKS FAMILY ENTERPRISES, 1862
                                        
                              Reproduced from the 
                                                Goshen
                                             Weekly Democrat, April 20, August 30, 1862.
                           
                                     would help me and have made some greek letters I
                                    guess that is what they are.
                        
                           Aug 12th I have not writen any for more than a week we have been so
                                    buissy and I have felt so tired when night come that I did not feel like writing
                        This evening just as I was begining to wright Will Hawks came in and before he went
                                    away Bell Blain and Clary Chaimberlain came and wanted me to go up to the war
                                    meeting so I went
                        Mr Hascall spoke but I could not hear half he said.49 After he
                                    got through Mr Schell made a very good speach and uncle Doc afew remarks, and then
                                    we came home.50 Ella Chaimberlain and Hubert Tyrrell came home
                                    with me and while we were standing at the gate watching the Midlebury company go
                                    through two young fellows ran past us and one says why there is Ella and then they
                                    stoped to speak to her one was Herbert Fassett and the other Mr Woodworth.
                        When they started away Herb gave me a farewell [hand] shake and a kiss. So I can
                                    boast of one shoulder [soldier] kiss.51
                        
                        
                           
                              49 Milo S. Hascall was the brother of Chauncey S. Hascall,
                                        the husband of Alice's mother's oldest sister, Emma. Milo
                                        Hascall was a railroad builder, lawyer, and politician before, in April, 1861,
                                        he became aide-de-camp to General Thomas Morris, who commanded the First Brigade
                                        of Indiana three-month volunteers. A graduate of West Point, Hascall was
                                        commissioned colonel of the 17th Indiana Volunteer Regiment in June, 1861, and
                                        in April, 1862, was promoted to brigadier general of 
                                            United States
                                         volunteers. He commanded in the field. In April, 1863, Hascall was
                                        appointed commander of the Indiana Military District. Because of a controversial
                                        order regarding suppression of criticism of the war, he was removed two months
                                        later at the instigation of Governor Oliver P. Morton. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 383; Terrell, Indiana in the War of
                                            the Rebellion, I, 12, 353, 554, 564; Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 1850-1880 (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1965), 204-205.
                           
                              50 Physician, newspaper editor, railroad director,
                                        businessman, and politician, Erastus W. H. Ellis was an influential participant
                                        in the development of 
                                            Elkhart County
                                         and of Indiana from the 1830s until his death in 1876. He served as
                                        auditor of 
                                            Elkhart County
                                         for sixteen years and as Indiana state auditor from 1850 to 1852.
                                        Among many other journalistic endeavors, he was editor and part owner of the 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        
                                        Indiana Statesman, the 
                                            Democratic Goshen
                                        
                                        Democrat, and later the 
                                            Republican Goshen
                                        
                                        Times. He served as director of the 
                                            Madison
                                         and 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         Railroad Company as well as of other rail lines, was a commissioner
                                        of the Institute for the Education of the Blind for five years, and acted
                                        briefly as director of the State Bank of Indiana. Ellis's Civil War
                                        activities included serving as delegate to the Peace Congress in 1860,
                                        organizing regiments in northern Indiana, and supervising the draft in 
                                            Elkhart County
                                        . A former Democrat, Ellis, who opposed the extension of slavery
                                        into the territories, switched to the Republican party in 1855. He was an
                                        outspoken advocate of the war. Ellis's second (of three) wives was
                                        Minerva Jennette Brown, Alice's aunt; thus, he is the Uncle Doc of her
                                        journal. At a war meeting reported in the 
                                            Goshen
                                        
                                        Times of August 29, 1861, Ellis defended the policy of the
                                        Abraham Lincoln administration and said that anyone who found fault with it was
                                        a "secesher." Ward Baker, "
                                            Mishawaka
                                         and its Volunteers, Fort Sumter through 1861," Indiana Magazine of History, LVI (June, 1960), 139n; Ellis,
                                        "Autobiography of a Noted Pioneer," 63-73. Mr. Schell may have
                                        been James H. Schell, editor of the 
                                            Goshen
                                        
                                        Democrat. Miller, Indiana Newspaper
                                        Bibliography, 98.
                           
                              51 Company I of the 88th Volunteer Infantry Regiment was
                                        organized in August, 1862. Commanded by Herman C. Fassett, the company included
                                        many 
                                            Goshen
                                        
                           
                        
                        
                        
                           Aug 18th We did not wash to day and I have not done any thing worth
                                    speaking of.
                        I have not writen any since the 12th the 13th there was another company went away Mr
                                    Abbot has gone the poor fellow worked hard to get up the company and had to go as
                                        priveit.62
                        
                        The 14th Albert went poor fellow did feel so bad I could hardly keep from crying. He
                                    came here in the morning and when he went away he cryed quite hard. The 15th I went
                                    to society at Mrs Whiticars. Worked all the afternoon to get my brilliant skirt done
                                    and while I was sewing on the band the gathering string broke so I had to give up
                                    The 16th went to a party to Clits [Calista] for Miss Barnet and had full as good
                                    time as I expected Mr Schell came home with me quite an honor
                        
                                    Aug 31st
                                
                        I have not writen any since the 18th
                        We have been so busy that I have not hardly had time to think of
                                    writing—Last wedensday Jo was taken sick and he has wanted some one to
                                    holde him all the time. Friday after noon I had him and started out to the gate and
                                    just as I got there he was taken with a fit and he had two that afternoon. I have
                                    not been to meeting or Sunday school to day. I guess it is the first time I have
                                    been at home all day for a year. Father went to Bufalow last Saturday and will not
                                    be back till the last of the week.
                        Last thursday evening the 28th the episcopal society met up to uncle E- and Mag
                                    Barmond went up togather in the rockaway and Father came home with ous.53
                        
                        It was very pleasant there but I did not enjoy it very much.
                        On the 25th (monday) Mr Free died, he had been sick alittle over a week, on tuesday
                                    they took him to Laport and had him buired and then had a sermon preached to day. I
                                    believe that is all I care about writing.
                        
                           and Middlebury residents. Herbert S. Fassett, editor of the 
                                            Goshen
                                        
                                        Democrat after the war, and Darris Woodworth were both
                                        sergeants in Company I. Adjutant General's Report,
                                        VI, 434.
                           
                              52 Although the appointment of regimental and company
                                        officers rested ultimately with the governor, most locally organized companies
                                        during the Civil War were allowed to elect their own officers. Usually those men
                                        who raised and organized regiments were selected, although either the electoral
                                        process or Governor Morton's appointive power could prevent this from
                                        happening. Terrell, Indiana in the War of the Rebellion, I,
                                        106-109. Organized in August, 1862, Companies E, G, and I of the 74th Volunteer
                                        Infantry Regiment were composed largely of men from 
                                            Goshen
                                        . Everett F. Abbott, formerly editor of the 
                                            Goshen
                                        
                                        Democrat, enlisted in Company I in August, 1862. Apparently
                                        denied an officer's commission at the time of organization, Abbott was,
                                        however, promoted to lieutenant before the company left the muster camp in 
                                            Fort Wayne
                                        . By February, 1863, he had risen to the rank of captain. He was
                                        killed at 
                                            Jonesboro
                                        , 
                                            Georgia
                                        , in 1864. Miller, Indiana Newspaper Bibliography,
                                        98; Adjutant General's Report, II, 688, 689; 
                                            Goshen
                                        
                                        Democrat, August 6, 20, 1862.
                           
                              53 A rockaway was a light, horsedrawn carriage with four
                                        wheels, open sides, and a standing top.
                        
                        
                        
                           Sep 1st I started to school this afternoon to Mrs Metcalfe She is
                                    teaching in the dark house right across the road so it is very conveniant to me. Mrs
                                    Kelly washed here today and this evening we have got all most all the white cloths
                                    ironed.
                        
                           Sep 30 I have not writen any for a month. I did not go to Mrs
                                    Metcalf after all. The next day Jo had a chill and I could not go and I thought if I
                                    should have to stay out every day I would not learn much so I gave up and when
                                    Mother came to find out they were not going to have any free school down here she
                                    thought I had better go up to the school house and Em go to Mrs Metcalf so we made
                                    the change. I am taking drawing lessons of Mrs Metcalf.54 Last
                                    night I went to the ade society and had a real good time55 I
                                    enjoyed it better than I did the M.E society at Mrs Nortens on friday. It has rained
                                    all the afternoon and father did not come home to night but I expect he will be down
                                    tomorrow about noon to go the weding. I expect there will be great doings
                                        tomorrow56
                        
                        
                           Oct 1st. I have been to the weding this after noon. It was avery
                                    quiet one There was but three there besids the friends. We have got an aunt Jennie
                                    now and uncle Eleazer has got him a wife. I did not get my invitation till noon and
                                    I do not know as I should have got it then if aunt Belinda hadent spoken to uncle
                                    Eleazer about it. They girls looked very well they had thier things on all ready to
                                    start as soon as they got through congratulating them. Oct 2nd
                                    Cousins Pheby and Sarah went to day I hated to see cousin Pheby go for I donot
                                    suppose we shall ever see her again.57
                                    Oct 3rd It is Saturday and I have been at home all day. This
                                    evening I went up to aunt Belindas and Calis[ta] showed me how to make a net Oct 9th I am afraid it will not do me much good to keep a journal
                                    if I am not more regular about it. I have been to school all day and this evening
                                    went to the consert for the benefit of the soldiers It was real good. Last Sunday
                                    (the 5th) we got our new Sunday school bookes they are very nice ones.58
                                    Oct 10th
                                    
                              
                                 54 The differences in the local public school and the
                                            private subscription school are not clear from Alice's account.
                                            Apparently Mrs. Metcalfe did offer one subject not available in the common
                                            school, drawing, and her tutelage appears to have been successful.
                                            Alice's descendants still own two of her small oil paintings, one
                                            of an apple, the other of a seashell.
                              
                                 55 Methodist Ladies' Aid societies provided
                                            financial support for missions and other charitable work as well as serving
                                            as social outlets for the women of the church. Societies raised money
                                            through a variety of activities.
                              
                                 56 On October 1, 1862, Alice's Uncle Eleazer
                                            Hawks married Jennie Goff. It was Eleazer's third marriage.
                              
                                 57 Alice may be referring to various eastern cousins
                                            who had come to Indiana for the wedding.
                              
                                 58 The interdenominational American Sunday School
                                            Union set a brisk pace in publishing materials for classes, as well as
                                            offering books and pamphlets to be given as incentives to pupils and
                                            providing ready-to-order libraries of many sizes. Denominations also
                                            published their own materials. Students were presented with two major themes
                                            in these materials—the importance of leading a moral life and the
                                            necessity of conversion. For examples of materials and a history of
                                            publishing, see chaper two of Boylan, Sunday
                                        School.
                              
                           
                                     This is our society night but I am not going. I
                                    meets at Mrs Bakers and she sent me word that she never would forgive me if I dident
                                    come but I cant help it. Mart died this morning59 It seams as
                                    though it is a real blessing to him for he has suffered so much since he has been
                                    sick. Oct 12th I had to get up and get breackfast this morning for
                                    Lizzie [the new hired girl] did not come back last night I went to meeting this
                                    morning uncle Beers preached.60 We did not have much sabbath
                                    school this afternoon there was but three teachers and very few schollars so we did
                                    not read any lessons and got through in time for the funeral. Mart was burried this
                                    afternoon. The funeral servesis were in the episcopal church.
                        
                           Oct 13th I have been to school all day and this evening went to the
                                    aid society and had a real nice time Injoy going to the aid societies more than any
                                    where els.
                        
                           Oct 16th There has been considerable excitement in town to day. The
                                    drafted soldiers went away this afternoon and such a crowd as there was down to the
                                    cars I never saw before.61 I met them as I was coming home from
                                    school. I began to think I never should get home. There was a great fire here last
                                    night Yates and Griffens mechien shop and one house and every thing was lost. The
                                    presbyterian church lost 500$.
                        
                           Qct 17th I am rather tired to night I have been all around town
                                    geting up subscribers for Arthurs Home magazine and did not get but one for certain.
                                    I called on Aunt Jennie and she insisted on mothers and my coming to the Society
                                    there to night. Mother has gone but I was too tired to go. Oct
                                    21st We expected grand ma to day but she did not come.
                        Mother thinks she is waiting and aunt Helen is comeing with her. I hope she will.
                        I was excused and went down to the cars and was very much disapointed.62
                        
                        
                           Oct 22nd. It is just as we expected. Grandma aunt Helen and all the
                                    children are here. I got excused again but was not early enough and when I got home
                                    here they all were. Mary Chamberlain and I have got to edit the paper this week. Oct 23rd. When 
                              
                                 59 "Mart" was a relative of
                                            Alice's maternal grandfather Brown.
                              
                                 60 The Reverend H. B. Beers was the second husband of
                                            Alice's Aunt Mary Hawks.
                              
                                 61 The first draft in Indiana occurred October 6,
                                            1862. Terrell, Indiana, in the War of the Rebellion, I,
                                            49-51. E. W. H. Ellis was appointed by Governor Morton to superintend the
                                            draft in 
                                                Elkhart County
                                            . In his autobiography Ellis speaks of accompanying 128 drafted
                                            men to 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , most of whom became members of the 57th Indiana Volunteer
                                            Infantry Regiment; however, he gives no date for this trip, and it could
                                            have occurred later in the war. Ellis, "Autobiography of a Noted
                                            Pioneer," 71.
                              
                                 62 Hannah Shay Brown was at the time living with her
                                            daughter, Emma Hascall, in 
                                                Goshen
                                             but had been visiting with another daughter, Helen Elliott, in 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            .
                           
                                     I got home from school to night mother told me
                                    that Mrs Raymond had sent me a particular invitation to the episcopal society and so
                                    I went and had a pretty good time. Aunt Jennie and I had a real nice chat.
                        How strange it seames to say aunt Jennie I can hardly get used to it.
                        That little Jue was there to and I think he is about as big a goose as I ever saw.
                        
                           Oct 24th The long dreaded day has come and allmost gone. The paper
                                    is over with at last. We do not have any society to night and I am at home as usual.
                        
                           Qct 25th I have been very much disapointed to day. I wanted to go
                                    up to 
                                        Waterford
                                     and couldent. It snowed just enough last night to make it real bad
                                    walking and I agreed to go up there and start but it was such bad walking that
                                    mother would not let me go.
                        
                           Oct 27th I have not been to school to day. this morning I went up
                                    to 
                                        Waterford
                                     and did not get back till after school time and as father was going
                                    away this afternoon I thought I would not go. He has gone east and will not be back
                                    for almost three weeks. I went to the aid society tonight and had a real nice time.
                                    Calista and Mr shell came home with me.
                        
                           November 1st This forenoon I helped around the house some and this
                                    afternoon Calista and I went up to 
                                        Waterford
                                    . I was going with Zade but it got so late that I thought she was not
                                    coming so I sent Dwight up after our horses and Just as we were going out of town we
                                    met her and so she went along and when we got to 
                                        Waterford
                                     she took Sadie and Matie and came back and Clit and I went up to Mr
                                    Sparklings and Latties.631 went to get subscribers for my
                                    Magazine and partly got the promise of one. We Had a splendid ride and very pleasant
                                    calls I drove all the way. We had two horses and the buggy and it was such a
                                    splendid day that we could not help enjoying ourselves. November
                                    9th I have not been to church to day. Went to sabbath school. I commencet a
                                    letter to Albert poor fellow I would give most any thing to hear from him. Yesterday
                                    I went to 
                                        Chicago
                                     on the excursion and had a very pleasant time Went up on the top of the
                                    court house and saw all over the ciety but the most magnifisint sight I ever saw is
                                    the lake and 
                              
                                 63 The names of Sparklin and Latta appear frequently
                                            in 
                                                Elkhart County
                                             and 
                                                Goshen
                                             history, as well as in Alice's journal. Alice probably
                                            refers to Asa Sparklin and Dr. M. M. Latta. According to county histories,
                                            Dr. Latta had an extensive practice in the 
                                                Elkhart County
                                             area for many years. Deahl, Twentieth Century
                                                History and Biographical Record of 
                                                    Elkhart County
                                                , 75; Weaver, Standard History of 
                                                    Elkhart County
                                                , I, 182.
                           
                                     it was perfectly beautifull. It would be
                                    imposible for me to express my feelings when I saw it.64
                        
                        When we came down we went back to the hotell a sat around there till after the gass
                                    was lit and then we all started out to see the city. We went the whole leangth of 
                                        Michigan
                                     avinew and I do not knew where else We saw some splendid Houses.
                        When we got on to the cars they were so crowded that we could not get seats for a
                                    long time and Calista Mrs Harress Eddie and I got seats in the very last car away
                                    from the rest of our company and did not see any thing more of them till after we
                                    got home
                        After we left 
                                        Mishawaka
                                     there was no one in the car but 
                                        Goshen
                                     folks, and but two bsides us and they were Frank Peass and Mr Ellison
                                    and we had a nice time sleeping. It was five oclock this morning when I got home.
                        
                           November 12th Pa got home this morning just before breackfast and
                                    glad enough we were to see him. We did not expect to see him atall It was a perfect
                                    surprise. I went to the society last night and such a time as we had. It rained and
                                    was as dark as pitch. I had my dress at Mrs Hudsons and they promised that I should
                                    have it so I put on my old calico dress and wore up there to get mine and was going
                                    to change up there but when I got there they were all locked up and I could not get
                                    in and there I was. Em wanted to go to the society becaus it was at Sally Thomases
                                    but I could not go as I was, at last I concluded I would go over to Mr
                                    Defreess's and see if they knew where the girls were. They did not know any
                                    thing about them but Hat Baker said I should not go home and so she sent up home and
                                    got her plaid dress with out my knowing it and maid me waar it. When she said she
                                    could give me a dress to weare I thought she had one with her or I would not have
                                    staid.
                        
                           November 13th I went out calling with aunt Hellen and aunt Emma
                                    this after noon. We had the carraig and Tom to drive for us so we went in
                                    considerable style.
                        
                           November 14th This has been a rather bussling day with ous.
                                    Yesterday when we were out we called at Nort[ons]s and wanted 
                              
                                 64
                                            
                                                Chicago
                                             boomed with the Civil War. On October 8, 1863, the 
                                                Chicago
                                            
                                            Tribune remarked, "On every street and avenue one
                                            sees new buildings going up, immense stone, brick, and iron business blocks,
                                            marble palaces, and new residences everywhere; the grading of streets, the
                                            building of sewers, and laying of water and gas pipes are all in progress at
                                            the same time. The unmistakable signs of active, thriving trade are
                                            everywhere manifest, not at any particular point, but everywhere throughout
                                            the city, where the enterprise of man can gain a foothold." Quoted
                                            in Mabel Mcllvain, "Introduction," Reminiscences of 
                                                    Chicago
                                                 During the Civil War (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1914), xi-xii. For a description of the city, particularly the
                                            "Court House" ("With its aspiring cupola, it so
                                            dominated the town that none could help looking up to it as something
                                            superior and apart ….") and the "Court House
                                            Square," see Frederick Francis Cook, "
                                                Chicago
                                             in the Civil War," ibid., 1-14. This
                                            excursion to 
                                                Chicago
                                             was as far from home as Alice ever traveled.
                           
                                     aunt Eliza to go home with us but she said she
                                    was too tired but would come down this morning so aunt Emma promised to send Lew
                                    after her and this morning she forgot it untill allmost ten oclock and then Lew had
                                    got off and she did not know where he was so she came overe here in a great splutter
                                    to know what she had better do.
                        Ma told her that I might go ut town and perhaps I could find Lew or maybe there would
                                    be a team that I could take. I found Lew but he could not possibally go and there
                                    was no team at the hard ware and so I went on up to Mrs Knaps with my bonnet and
                                    there I found Mary Radaball and she said I could take her horse and buggy and so I
                                    got her down here.
                        When I got home Mother was getting father ready to go off to 
                                        New York
                                    .
                        
                           November 15th this has been another hard day. O Dear I wish we
                                    could get a girl I have been out of school nearly two weeks. This morning mother
                                    went out to get the ash pail and when she came back she found Em laying on the floor
                                    in afit she had seamed to be perfectly well all the morning and was reading when
                                    mother went out. She has been sick all day and this evening she had another.
                        
                           November 16 I have not been out at all to day except to sunday
                                    school. Mother went to meeting this morning and I did not feel like going this
                                    evening.
                        
                           November 17th Min is sick to day mother thinks she has got the lung
                                    feaver I do not know what is going to become of us mother is almost down with a cold
                                    and Emma not well and to top off all we have no girl. I tride to get Mrs Scot this
                                    afternoon and she said she would let us know this evening but we have not heard of
                                    her since, so I dont suppose she is coming. I do not know what possesses me to want
                                    to sleep so much alredy I am so sleapy that I can hardly hold my eyes open. December 21st It is over a month since I have writen any It is not
                                    a very good way to keep a journal but I cannot help it.
                        There are a great many things I should like to have writen but have forgoten when
                                    they happened. It is only three days till Christmas and I have not goten a single
                                    present done yet. Yesterday I was going to do so much and was sick all day, but in
                                    the evening I made out to go up town and got some things for my schollars. I have
                                    got a watchguard started for father apair of slippers for Em and Dwight but I do not
                                    see as there is any hope of geting them done. Father has gone to 
                                        Buffalow
                                     and I am very much afraid he will not get home He has been gone over a
                                    week and we have not heard from him since.
                        Mrs McKenny's funeral was this after noon. Within the last three weeks there
                                    has been four funerals in our church. This morning the funeral sermon of Henry
                                    Bachlor was preached. Last sunday  Reader
                                    Allbright's and the Sunday before Gid[eon] Albright's.65 There has not been any sleighing yet Although it has snowed
                                    several times and there is poor prospects of any for Christmas.
                        Ella Beers got home last night and Frank last thursday I saw Ella at sabbath school
                                    today but have not see Frank yet.
                        
                           December 26th Well Christmas is over and I am glad of it. I am so
                                    tired to day I can not do any thing I went over to the church in the morning about
                                    ten Oclock and was there till four working then I went up to uncle Cephases and took
                                    our things up. I Staid there till dark then came home and dressed my self and went
                                    to the church the tree was perfectly splended and the singing good. I staid there
                                    about an hour and ahalf then went up to uncle Cephases. They said it was to be a
                                    family party but there was about as many there out of the family as there was in.
                                    Thier tree looked very handsome but not as nice as the one at the church.
                        I got a gold pen with my enitials on it from grandma a nice black silk apron from
                                    mother and a bottle of perfumery.
                        Mother got some handsome presents a nice Albume and a traviling companion.66
                        
                        It has been the worst weather I ever knew for Christmas. It rained all day and pretty
                                    near all day to day. I forgot to say I got a collar a pair of mittens and a doll
                                    from my Sunday school schollars.
                        
                           December 28th It has cleared up again and this has been a
                                    beautifull day.
                        I have been to meeting twice and to sabbath school a good deal more than I expected
                                    to do when I got up this morning.
                        Jo was sick all day yesterday and I sat and held him allmost all of the time and in
                                    the evening Min was taken with asore throat and was so bad mother did not want to go
                                    to bed so about ten she told me to unfasten my cloths and ly down till twelve then
                                    if Min was no better she would call me and would go to bed. I did so and there I lay
                                    till morning and then did not feel much rested. New Year Jan 1st.
                                    Another New year commenst and what does it bring with it. Nothing but war and rumers
                                    of war. Yes it does. It brings freedom to a poor oppressed nation for this day the
                                    slaves become free67 Oh how thier hearts must leep for Joy.
                                    Father has 
                              
                                 65 The Albrights were apparently longtime members of
                                            the Methodist church in 
                                                Goshen
                                            . "Mrs. and Miss Albright" are listed as
                                            contributors as late as 1910. J. Earle Roose, First United
                                                Methodist Church, 
                                                    Goshen
                                                , Indiana, 1832-1982 ([Middlebury, Ind.], 1982), 32.
                              
                                 66 A traveling companion is a fitted toilet article
                                            case.
                              
                                 67 Issued September 22, 1862, the Emancipation
                                            Proclamation became effective January 1, 1863. It was not universally
                                            popular throughout the North, and Alice's response to it may
                                            reflect the Methodist church's decision in 1860 to condemn
                                            slave-holding as well as slave buying and selling. The Committee on Slavery
                                            of the Northern Indiana Conference of the Methodist Episcopal
                                            Church—to which Alice's
                           
                                     not got home yet but Mother thinks some he will
                                    come to night I am sure I hope he will
                        
                           Jan 2nd Father did come sure enough.
                        Yesterday in the afternoon Clit Ella Matie Frank Albert Arthur and My self went up to 
                                        Waterford
                                     to see aunt Jennie and when we got there we found she had invited Mr
                                    & Mrs Thomas up there to spend the evening and expected us to stay but they
                                    did not come and I was glad of it.
                        We had an oyster supper about eight then had a grand play and came home. I never did
                                    see uncle Eleazer feel so gay
                        I never saw such weather as we have had this winter here it is the second of January
                                    and no sleighing yet. It has rained for the last two days allmost constantly and is
                                    sprinkeling now. Jan 3rd For a wonder it has not rained any for
                                    allmost three hours.
                        Grandma is sick and I have been siting withe her nearly all day. This evening Clit
                                    sent down for me to go to the society with her so I got ready and went up there and
                                    when we started we just got out of the gate when we met Mr Shell going up there so
                                    we turned around and went back. Mr Shell came home with me.
                        
                           Jan 6th Started to school agane to day the school was not very
                                    large and was pleasant.
                        I have laid down some new rules for my self and I hope I shall be able to keep them
                        I am not going out more than twice a week. I shall go to the ade society once a week
                                    and to our society the next and that will leave me one night each week to go any
                                    where I should take a notion.
                        I have been to the ade society tonight. I went with Ella and we went after Bell while
                                    we were there there was a thundering noise at the door and in walked Marie and Frank
                                    March and Ed Hubble and Frank Perce pretty soon Hube come and then we started I went
                                    with Hube and Ella and they came home with me Jan 9th It is just a
                                    week ago that I wrote. It has been a buisy time and sad too. We have not had any
                                    girl this week and with doing the work and takeing care of Grandma has kept us buisy
                                    But she will not need any more care for this evening she left this world and gone to
                                    a brighter and better one where she can see truly we ought nought not mourn for her
                                    when she is so much better off. The pen I am writing with was her last gift I shall
                                    prise it so much. Jan
                                    
                              church would have belonged—reported to the national conference
                                            in April, 1860: "WHEREAS, this conference has always spoken so
                                            clearly and unmistakably against the great sin of American slavery, and in
                                            favor of changing the General Rules and chapter on that subject, so as to
                                            entirely extirpate it from the Church, we deem it unnecessary to reiterate
                                            what we have so often said, only that we are more than ever opposed to this
                                            sum of all villainies.…" Herrick and Sweet, History of the Northern Indiana Conference of the Methodist Episcopal
                                                Church, 69.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              
                                            HANNAH SHAY BROWN
                                 
                                        
                              Courtesy Virginia Mayberry.
                           
                                    
                                    11th I have not been to meeting to day. We did intend to have the
                                    funeral this morning but last night we got a dispatch from uncle Thomas [Elliott]
                                    saying they would start Saturday evening and so the funeral was put off till
                                        tomorrow.68
                        
                        Aunt Hellen came this evening. Oh what a sad meeting it was so diferent from what we
                                    had anticipated the next meeting would be when we went home this fall. Jan 15th Aunt Helen went this evening she expected to meet uncle T- at the
                                    crossings. We have not any girl yet but hope to have one Sunday. I have made Aunt
                                    Hellen a breackfast cap this week besides doing the work. Smart girl I am geting to
                                    be
                        The ladys of the M E Church are going to have a festival next Wednesday eve and I
                                    have got to go around in this part of town and see what folks will bake.
                        
                           Jan 18th I did not go to meeting this morning it was so late when
                                    we got up this morning and we had such times geting breackfast that I could not get
                                    the work done.
                        Last friday evening I went to the society and had a very pleasant time but such times
                                    as I had geting home. I went with Mr & Mrs Stabler but they came home so
                                    early I did not want to come and Mrs Baker told me that if I would stay she would
                                    see that I got home safe so I staid When I got ready to go home I went and asked her
                                    if she was ready to go and she said that Mr Arnold was going home with me but he had
                                    gone with Kate Hattle and I must go waite and so I waited till every one els had
                                    gone but Mrs B- at last we concluded we would not wait any longer so we put on our
                                    duds and came home alone. Saturday afternoon Zade and I went out beging and then she
                                    came home with me to tea69 After the work was done we went up to
                                    Defreeses to report our success.
                        
                           Jan 19th I have washed to day and am rather tired to night
                        Our washing was very small or I could not have done it. It is the first time I ever
                                    washed with out help but this time did all my self. Tomorrow we are going to 
                                        Leesburg
                                     to attend cousin Eds funeral 
                              
                                 68 Hannah Shay Brown was sixty-five at the time of her
                                            death. She had been blind for some years. Alice's Aunt Helen had
                                            married Dr. Thomas B. Elliott in 1853. Elliott, a physician, had come to 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             in 1850 to practice medicine. He was soon involved in myriad
                                            civic activities in Indiana's burgeoning capital city. He served
                                            for a time on the 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             school board, was associated with the Indiana School for the
                                            Blind, and was president of the chamber of commerce and secretary of the
                                            board of trade for a number of years. Later, he was co-organizer of the
                                            Indiana Colony that moved to 
                                                California
                                             and founded Pasadena. Helen, his wife, became known as the
                                            "Mother of Pasadena." For additional information about
                                            Elliott, particularly his association with the Indiana Colony, see James H.
                                            Madison, "Taking the Country Barefooted: The Indiana Colony in 
                                                Southern California
                                            ," 
                                    
                                                    California
                                                 History, LXIX (Fall, 1990), 237-49.
                              
                                 69 Alice was probably asking for money and/or supplies
                                            to be used for the relief of soldiers' families. 
                                                Elkhart County
                                             had a very active Soldiers' Aid Society.
                           
                                     and must go to bed early as we have to start
                                    from here about half apast five in the morning.70
                        
                        
                           Jan 22nd I have the account for three days to write and dont hardly
                                    know which to begin with, but guess I will commenst with tuesday. We started from
                                    here about six oclock and got there about ten. It was a very unpleasant day. It
                                    rained part of the way and sleet part of the time.
                        It was a sorrowfull time and place to go too. The family all feel very badly but who
                                    could help it when they think of the way he died. Uncle Albert looks as much as
                                    twelve years older than when I last saw him. It was nine Oclock when we got home
                                    pretty well tired out.
                        Wednesday morning after I got the dishes washed I went right down to Aunt Marys to
                                    see about my garabaldi and found she had not commenst it so I went up town and got
                                    some braid to braid it and by dint of hard work got it done but could not if Sada
                                    and Anna Chamberlain had not helped me.71
                        
                        I wore it to the festival with aunt Ems red mereno skirt it looked very well.
                        I had a very pleasant time had quite a long talk with Mr Crary. The more I see of
                                    that fellow the more I dislike him
                        Mr Arnold the Jew came home with me. He is such a funy fellow I cannot understand him
                                    half of the time72
                        
                        Today (thursday) I have been to work all day this morning as soon as I got the dishes
                                    washed I went up to the hall to get our dishes and found they had dcided to have one
                                    for the children so I went to work to help get the dishes washed and was there till
                                    noon and when I got home found mother had gone to 
                                        Waterford
                                     I fixed up the fire in the kitchen put the flatirons on then got the
                                    children thier diner and then went to ironing and finished this evening about dark.
                        I am very tired but cannot go to bed till Mother comes for she has gone up to the
                                    hall. Dwight took Jenny Chamberlain up there to night but here they come.
                        
                           Jan 31st Here it is the last day January and no sleighing yet. I
                                    never saw such a winter before. I thought this year I would keep my Journal a little
                                    more regular than I last year but I have made a poor begining.
                        
                           
                              70 Ed, Alice's cousin, was the son of Albert
                                        Hawks, who lived in 
                                            Leesburg
                                        , 
                                            Kosciusko County
                                        .
                           
                              71 A garibaldi was a woman's blouse, popular
                                        during the 1860s because of its association with the Italian independence
                                        fighter Guiseppe Garibaldi. Garibaldi's followers were called
                                        "red shirts" after their clothing, and garibaldi blouses were
                                        initially loose fitting, simple red garments. They evolved into fancier white
                                        blouses, sometimes trimmed with lace and red silk. Kunciov, Mr.
                                            Godey's Ladies, 109, 127-28.
                           
                              72 During the 1860s there was a very small Jewish
                                        community in 
                                            Goshen
                                        .
                        
                        
                        
                           
                                        THE GAEIBALDI SHIBT.
                                    
                           Reproduced from Godey's Lady's Book and Magazine, LXIV
                                        (January, 1862). 21.
                        
                        
                        
                           
                                        FASHIONS FROM THE CIVIL WAR ERA TYPICAL OF
                                                THOSE ALICE HAWKS MIGHT HAVE MADE OR WORN: GARIBALDI SHIRTS, BLACK VELVET
                                                HAIRNET, WHITE MUSLIN BREAKFAST CAP
                              
                                    
                           Reproduced from Ccdey's Lady's Bwk and Magazine, LXIV
                                        (June,18621, 589, 590, LXV (October, 1862), 389.
                        
                        
                        It is over a week since I have writen any but it cannot be helped. We have no girl
                                    and I am so tired at night I do not feel like writing.
                        Jo and the baby are both quite sick, the Doctor says they are threatend with lung
                                    feaver.
                        Last night I went to the society at Mr Rowels and such a housefull I never saw at the
                                    society had a very pleasant time and a rather exciteing one. The chimney took fire
                                    and such a rush as there was for the things among the girls, each one wanted to be
                                    sure thier things were Safe. I enjoyed it very much but such a time as I had getting
                                    home, father went off and left me there alone. I did not discover it till every one
                                    els had gone.
                        I finily accepted the company of Mr Rowel Annas cousin.
                        
                                    Feb Wednesday 4th
                                
                        I Am allmost sick with a colde, and Dwight is most sick He has a bad head ache and
                                    some feaver. but we have got a girl and that is a great rleife It is Mary Potter
                                    back again.
                        
                           Feb 7th Went up to 
                                        Waterford
                                     this morning and stayed till afternoon and had a real nice time Took
                                    Joe with me but he stayed at the store most of the time. I came home with uncle
                                    Eleazer and stoped at Mr Purl's but Zade was not there. So I came down to
                                    Mr Brainards an got Linnie to go with me to see Malvina Dillon and we persuaded her
                                    to come to sabbath School again.
                        
                           Feb 8th I do not feel very well to day. I guess my tramp yesterday
                                    was most too much for me. I did not go to church this morning and did not feel much
                                    like going to sabbath school but went and was glad of it for Malvina was there and
                                    another girl wither from the baptis School and I dont much expect she will come very
                                    regular or long. It snowed last night and has snowed some to day.
                        Albert came home to day but I havent seen him yet.Feb 9th I did not
                                    start to school to day as I expected to. Calista came down here with the cutter and
                                    asked me to take a ride but we did not go far before it began raining and we had to
                                    come home.
                        It has rained all day.
                        
                           Feb llth I have started to school again and find I have lost a good
                                    deal especialy in Algebra. Albert came down here this evening and stayed to tea.
                        He has not changed much but has grown fleashy. I went up to see Mrs Metcalf this
                                    evening. She is not at all well and looks very bad. It is raining now but is growing
                                    coulder and I should not be surprised if it should snow before morning.
                        
                           Feb 12th This morning the ground was covered with snow a bout a
                                    foot deep.
                        I do not know when it has been such hard work for me to stay in school. The sleighs
                                    have been going all day.
                        
                           Feb 13th I have had a grand sleigh ride to day. This after noon
                                    father got Mr Vankirks big sleigh and took all our family and  aunt Mary Sada and Lolly out. We went round the prairy
                                    and came down by 
                                        Waterford
                                     made quite a call there and then came home.
                        Our society meets at Mr Winders but I did not go had no chance.
                        
                           Febuary 14th Made araingments to go calling this afternoon but did
                                    not go. It rained.
                        This morning Albert drove down and asked me to take aride and of course I did and
                                    about ten he came for me. We went up to 
                                        Waterford
                                     called at 
                                        Simpsons
                                     and then came home. I had not been in the house ten minutes when it
                                    began raining. Albert invited Zade to go with us but she could not so he asked her
                                    to go in the afternoon. I was glad I took my ride in the morning. It is St
                                    Valintines day. Feb 15. Em and I went to Matila's Weding
                                    this morning. I got up there in time to help dress the bride. Han Coover was there
                                    and we had lots of fun there and coming down to church. Zade came home with me after
                                    meeting and staid till after sabbath school. Feb 18th Have had the
                                    blues terribaly to day. There was a party went out to the lake skatting this morning
                                    and I wanted to go but had to go to school. I am begining to give up all hopes of
                                    ever learning to skate. I have got a composition to write this week and have to get
                                    two lessons every night. Feb 21st I wanted to go Skating to day so
                                    this morning I hurred with the work When afternoon came I had no one to go with and
                                    no place to go so I had to give it up but I went up town got me some velvet for a
                                    head dress and went up to uncle Cephases to have Calista help me but she was not at
                                    home so I went and called on Mrs Metcalf and Miss Fish then came home and tryed to
                                    settle down to work but found it hard work. Mary Chamberlain came home this morning
                                    and this afternoon she came over to aunt Emmas an I had to go over and see her so I
                                    have spent my time in runing.
                        
                           Feb 25th. I have been to school all day and got along very well
                                    considering I did not study any last night.
                        Last night I was up to uncle Cephases to a party given for Mr Blain and Kerstater
                                    [Kerstetter] All most every one was there and all seamed to have a pleasant time but
                                    me. Jim Crary came home with me. I wonder if I shall ever get so that I will enjoy
                                    my self here.
                        
                           Feb 26th I have been to the wedding in the new presbyterian church,
                                    and saw Miss Callie Gilmore and Croff Blain made one. She was marraied in black.
                        They went to 
                                        Chicago
                                     to night and are going to stay till Saturday.
                        
                           Feb 28th This is the last day of winter and no sleighing. We have
                                    been in the dirt here all day have done some cleaning and are preparing to move.73 Last night I went to the society at Mr 
                              
                                 73 Alice was moving to the brick house on the corner
                                            of 
                                                Pike
                                             and Third streets to what later became a compound of Hawks
                                            family homes.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              
                                            THE JOEL P. HAWKS RESIDENCE AT THE CORNER OF PIKE AND THIRD STREETS, GOSHEN (ALICE IS ONE OF THE WOMEN PICTURED.)
                                        
                              Courtesy Virginia Mayberry.
                           
                                     Defrees' the house was full. I enjoyed
                                    it very much. It was twleve oclock when Pa and I got home.
                        
                           March 2nd, this has been the funiest day I ever saw. When we got up
                                    it was snowing quit hard and looked as if it had set in for an all days snow storm
                                    but about ten oclock it cleared off and the snow all thawed off in a little while.
                        This after noon it has snowed very hard for a few minutes and then it would stop and
                                    the sun wuld come out.
                        This evening went up to aid Society but there was none, so I came down to see grand
                                    pa Chamberlain.74
                        
                        
                           March 14th. We are mooved at last, but are all topsiturvy there is
                                    not but two carpets down in the house and we mooved last tuesday. School is out and
                                    I am glad of it I hope now that I shall get something done. Saturday
                                        March 21st I have wanted to go to 
                                        waterford
                                     all this week but have not gone, mother says I can go next week but I
                                    dont expect to for Mary [Potter] is going home and I shant get time. I have been out
                                    to several places this afternoon went to Mrs Sparklings and had a very pleasant
                                    call.
                        
                           Saturday March 28th I have writen Just a week a part latly because
                                    I could not get any more time. Yesterday Zade and I made our long talked of calls
                                    and then went to the society at the parsnage and had a very pleasent time or at
                                    least I did. This morning I took a horseback ride to try a horse that father talked
                                    of buying then I went over to the parsnage and gathered up the dishes.
                        This afternoon Zade Fanny and my self spent the afternoon with Permilia Taylor.
                        We had a very pleasent time played jack stones most of the time. Mr Thompson took us
                                    all home. Monday March 30th
                        
                        School began again to day we had quite a pleasent school. I sit with Carey Defrees.
                        
                                    Saturday April 4th
                                
                        We have got a girl again but there is no telling how long she will stay. This
                                    afternoon Mrs Baker Permelia Fanny and myself spent the afternoon with Zadie, and
                                    had a splendid time. Mrs baker tought us a new game called authors, with cards.751 got my hat trimed this morning. Ella got home last thursday
                                    but I havent seen her but once.
                        
                                    Wednesday April 8th
                                
                        Took tea with Ella this evening. Lide and Gary Defrees Miss Suasy 
                              
                                 74 Alice refers to her friend Emma's
                                            grandfather, not her own. Grandpa Chamberlain, however, was also a relative
                                            by marriage to Phoebe Hascall, sister of Chauncey Hascall.
                              
                                 75 Authors, a game played with special cards divided
                                            into sets or books, each set relating to a different author, was a
                                            relatively old game even in Alice's time. It remained popular until
                                            at least the early twentieth century.
                           
                                     Miss Harris Calista and my self were there. I
                                    did not enjoy it much. Ella has treated Sady so mean lately th[at] I cannot feel
                                    friendly towards her.
                        
                                    Saturday April 11th
                                
                        I am glad there is no school to day for I do get so tired going to school all the
                                    weeke. Ella and I went to the society last night it was at Mrs Thomases. I did not
                                    enjoy it very much I had such a headache. There was quite a turn out and I guess
                                    that every one els enjoyed them selfes.
                        
                                    Saturday April 18th
                                
                        It is just a week ago to day since I wrote last our minister came to day I hope we
                                    shall like him and Ella sayes we cannot help it76 I went up to 
                                        Waterford
                                     this evening with uncle Cephas and aunt Belinda. Aunt Jennie is quite
                                    sick with a cold. I never heard any one cough as she does. We are with out a girl
                                    again I do think it is so provoking
                        
                                    Saturday April 19th
                                
                        The minister preached for the first time to day and I guess every one liked him I did
                                    not go this morning but father and mother were pervectly delighted with him and he
                                    preached an excelencent sermon to night
                        I was introduced to Mrs Mendinhaul this afternoon and liked her appearance very much
                        
                                    Friday April 24th
                                
                        the society meets at Mrs Jim Sparkling's this evening and I guess I will go
                                    if I can get any company. The botany class went out into the woods this after noon.
                        We saw two snakes and killed one of them besides geting lots of flowers and I think
                                    that is doing pretty well.
                        
                                    Saturday 25th
                                
                        I went to the society as I expected to and had a splended time I dont think I ever
                                    enjoyed a society better Yesterday afternoon when we were coming home Carry asked me
                                    if I was going I told her I couldent unless father came home and he did not expect
                                    to when he went away. She told me to come up there and go with her that she was not
                                    going to have any company and I could as well as not. So at last I concluded to do
                                    so and when I got up there she told me that Dave was going with her.
                        
                                    Wedensday April 29th
                                
                        There is no school till next monday. Miss chandler is sick.77 I
                                    am 
                              
                                 76 Alice is probably referring to the Reverend
                                            Marmaduke H. Mendenhall who served as Methodist minster in 
                                                Goshen
                                             from April, 1863, until April, 1865. Herrick and Sweet, History of the North Indiana Conference of the Methodist
                                                Episcopal Church, 357.
                              
                                 77 Alice may here have been referring to the public
                                            school rather than that of Mrs. Metcalfe. Miss Emma Chandler was later
                                            principal of 
                                                Goshen
                                             High School for many years. A present-day elementary school,
                                            built on the site of the former high school, is named for her.
                           
                                     sorry she is sick but I must confess I am glad
                                    there is no school, tomorrow is fast day and Mr Mendenhall is going to preach in the
                                    presbyterian church.78
                        
                        
                                    Thursday April 30th
                                
                        I had a horseback ride this morning and a nice one too. after I came back I got ready
                                    and went to church, we had an excelent sermon, the presbyterians were all very well
                                    pleased with him. This after noon mother went up to 
                                        waterford
                                     aunt Jennie is quite sick.
                        I have been mending stockings all the afternoon. Call Blain and I are going to have a
                                    picneic Saturday for our Sabbath School schollars.
                        
                                    Sunday May 3rt
                                
                        We had our picnic yesterday as we expected and had a real nice time I guess all the
                                    girls enjoyed it I am shure Call and I did. we had a cake and a half left and we
                                    took it to the minister It was allmost dark when we got home. It sprinkled two or
                                    three times but did not rain.
                        after I got home I went up to Mrs Knop and got Emmas hat when I came out of there
                                    Charlie Sparkling Jennie Biddle and Mary Latta were standing by thier gate so I
                                    stoped to talk with them and when Jennie and came on he came with us and when I got
                                    home I had to wash the dinner and supper dishes. To day I feel perfectly miserable
                                    but made out to go to church this morning and to sabbath school.
                        
                                    Tuesday May 5.
                                
                        Mrs Baker came down here to see if we wouldent have the society and after thinking
                                    about it we concluded we would if she couldent get any one els to have it but we
                                    have no girl and it would be very hard work for us. Dwight has gone out after
                                    Margret Wear to day I do hope she will come.
                        
                                    Thursday May 7th
                                
                        We are not going to have the society after all. Mrs Sarbaugh is going to have it I am
                                    makeing me a blue delain waste and braiding it with black.79
                                    Cousin Mary is down. She came down to meet uncle Albert and aunt Sarah but they have
                                    not come yet. she was here to tea this eavening.
                        
                           Friday May 8th Went up to the society at Mrs Sarbaugh and wore my
                                    new wast and Silk dress, the house was full and I guess they were very well
                                    satisfide. We are going to have it next time. I 
                              
                                 78 Fast days were a well-established American
                                            tradition in times of war, dating back to the seventeenth-century Puritans.
                                            Communities gathered together in church to listen to a special sermon in a
                                            ritual of civic repentance thought to aid the side they supported.
                              
                                 79 Delaine is a lightweight dress fabric of wool or
                                            wool and cotton made in prints or solid colors. As Alice uses it here,
                                            "waist" means a blouse.
                           
                                     have worked on my wast all day and just got it
                                    done in time. Mother and Em are going to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     in a bout two weeks.
                        
                           Monday May llth Aunt Dalinda came down here this morning to see If
                                    we wanted to send to Calista for any thing as they was going to send for the trunk I
                                    sent for a dress and circular and gloves Em ditto.80 I expect
                                    they will be here the last of this week, or the first of next. Mr & Mrs
                                    Mendinhall took tea here this evening and I have had a horseback ride. I began aunt
                                    Helen a breackfast cap this after noon.
                        
                           Sunday May 18th I have not been too meeting attall to day. Last
                                    tuesday I was taken with Dipthiria and have not done much School beggins tomorrow
                                    but I do not know wheather I shall go or not. Monday May 25th.
                        
                        Have been at school all day and this evening went up to Mrs Knaps and commenst making
                                    the baby a hat but did not get it done.
                        
                                    Saturday May 23rd
                                
                        I am so tired to day I do not feel much like doing any thing. The society is over
                                    with and I am awfull glad of it the house was full and I guess every one enjoyed it.
                                    I had to carry home dishes all the forenoon and this afternoon I have crochet. Monday May 25th I went to school this fornoon but this afternoon
                                    took Mother and the children up to 
                                        Waterford
                                    . had a real nice time I drove all the way and had two horses. Mother
                                    goes Wednesday after noon.
                        
                                    Wednesday May 27th
                                
                        Mother and Em started this afternoon and now I am mistress. The children call me ma
                                    about half the time. Mother said I must write down thier conduct every day so that
                                    She could see it when she gets home. They were real good this evening. May &
                                    Jo went to bed before dark.
                        
                                    Thursday May 28th
                                
                        I have been to school to day as usual. The children have been very good, so far I
                                    have not had any trouble with any of them except Min and not any hardly worth
                                    speaking of with her at noon she wanted to wear her winter hat to school becaus the
                                    triming had all come off from her other one but I would not let her so she cried a
                                    while about it. This evening they all went to bed before dark. Mrs Pancost and Miss
                                    Fish called this evening just at dusk.
                        
                                    Saturday May 30th
                                
                        I have got two days report to make out and guess I will begin with fridays. Father
                                    and I went to presbyterian society at Mr Mercers 
                              
                                 80 Alice probably refers to Calista Hawks (Mrs. John
                                            Gortner). The Hawkses and Browns retained close ties with eastern branches
                                            of the family, which was good for business and for securing household
                                            furnishings, clothing, and literature. A circular was a long, full, often
                                            fur-lined cape that was popular in the nineteenth century.
                           
                                     last evening and it was so late when I got home
                                    that I did not feel like writing and there was not much to write. I got Jo to sleep
                                    before dark but May had had a long nap in the afternoon so I let her & Min
                                    sit up till after I went to bed. they were very good through the day. This morning
                                    when I got up it was raining but in hops it would clear off before after noon so the
                                    girls could come I went to work and made my cake, but it rained all day. I had
                                    promised the children they might go up to Mrs Tyrrell's to see Emma
                                    & they were very much disappointed. Min teased me a good deel to go any way.
                                    They have given me more trouble to day than any other by geting themselves wet. I
                                    went up this evening and got my bonet, and like it very much.
                        
                                    Sunday May 31st
                                
                        I did not go to church this morning because Margret wanted to go up to see Samantha,
                                    and so I staid with the little ones Min & D-went with pa. It has rained
                                    again to day. Just before sabbath school time it poured down I think I never saw it
                                    rain so.
                        I have had some trouble with the children to day keeping them in the house. I wrote a
                                    long letter to Mother this afternoon and went to church this evening.
                        
                                    Monday June 1st
                                
                        The children have been very good to day with the exception that Min has teased me to
                                    let her sit up and see the eclips and May did not want to go to bed with out her.
                                    Dwight invited the cousins to come here and sit up to seet it and I was thinking
                                    that I would let Min sit up when Aunt Em came in and said it was all over with so I
                                    made them go right to bed. We got letters from Ma and Em this evening.
                        
                                    Saturday June 6th
                                
                        I have not keep up my report very well but there has not been much to wright The
                                    children are all of them very good.
                        I expected to have company to day but Dwight went off up town and did not get back in
                                    time to take my invitations. The democrats are haveing a greate mass meeting to day
                                    and the town is full, poor fellows I hope they will enjoy them selves.81 Margaret has gone home and I am alone. I do not know how I shall get
                                    along.
                        
                                    Sunday June 7th
                                
                        I did not go to meeting this morning because I could not get the work done up. Such
                                    times geting the children dressed & geding 
                              
                                 81 The Browns were Democrats when they came to Indiana
                                            in the 1830s. In fact, Ebenezer Brown, Alice's maternal
                                            grandfather, established and edited the 
                                                Goshen
                                            
                                            Democrat for a number of years. Miller, Indiana Newspaper Bibliography, 97. By the 1850s, certainly by the
                                            Civil War years covered by Alice's diary, both the Browns and the
                                            Hawkses supported the Republican party. They were probably influenced by the
                                            antislavery policy of their respective churches and by friends and family
                                            members who opposed the extension of slavery and who were instrumental in
                                            the formation of the Republican party in Indiana.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              
                                            INTERIOR OF JOEL P. HAWKS HOME ON PIKE
                                                    AND THIRD STREETS, GOSHEN, C. 1890
                                        
                              
                              
                                            LEFT TO RIGHT: JOEL P. HAWKS; ALICE; DWIGHT; EMMA'S YOUNGEST DAUGHTER, VIRGINIA; DWIGHT'S WIFE, ESTELLE BURNS; MAY; DWIGHT'S SON, LEWIS; EMMA (?); SARAH BROWN HAWKS
                                 
                                        
                              
                                            Courtesy Virginia Mayberry.
                                        
                           
                                     breackfast I never did see. got along the rest
                                    of the day very well father staid at home this evening & I went to church.
                        
                                    Monday June 8th
                                
                        Uncle Doc goes down to Ind- and comes back thursday I expect Mother will come with
                                    him. I wrote to her today telling her that M- had gone, but father was going to try
                                    to get Mary Potter.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Afterword
                
            Joel may not have been successful in securing the services of Mary Potter, because Alice's
                    journal stops abruptly at the bottom of page 104, although it had been numbered to 122, the final
                    page. Earlier, when numbering the diary, Alice had twice inadvertently turned two pages. Rather than
                    renumbering when the error was discovered, she sewed the two pages together with large basting
                    stitches, which are still intact.
            Alice died July 16, 1892, at age forty-six, "with a derangement of the stomach
                        …,"82 She was still a spinster living in 
                        Goshen
                     and caring for her sister Emma's youngest child. Both her parents outlived her
                    by several years. Of Alice's siblings, Em married a pharmacist who dabbled in real estate
                    and who moved his large family frequently. Min married and died in childbirth. Lora died at age
                    nine. Joe and May lived together in 
                        Goshen
                     all their lives. Dwight, too, was a pharmacist and lived in 
                        Goshen
                     with his wife and one son. He and cousins Frank E. C. and Edwin Hawks continued to
                    manage various of the Hawks enterprises and are mentioned frequently in late nineteenth- and early
                    twentieth-century county histories.
            
               
                  82
                        
                            Goshen
                        
                        Daily News, July 16, 1892.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Where We Live: Essays about Indiana. Edited by David Hoppe. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1989. Pp. x, 114. Clothbound, $22.50; paperbound,
                    $7.95.)
            "Indiana is changing," begins editor David Hoppe in the introduction to this
                    thoughtful collection of essays, a statement as flat and simple and yet as deceptively complex as
                    the physical and psychological subject matter it represents. In a world where revolutions happen on
                    a weekly basis and attention spans are measured in seconds, the rate of change in Indiana, a state
                    distinguished within its region for stubborn resistance to trends and fads, might appear
                    comparatively insignificant. It might even be invisible, at least to those who do not look closely.
            A number of Indiana writers and scholars are looking closely, however, beyond myths and stereotypes,
                    in an effort to perceive how the homogenizing forces of mass culture have affected the place they
                    call home. Twelve of them are represented in this volume, and their insights deserve attention from
                    all those concerned with Indiana's future.
            Scott Russell Sanders establishes a number of the anthology's pervasive themes in his
                    opening essay, "Landscape and Imagination." Returning to Indiana from a
                    year's absence, he experiences a "freshening of awareness" (p. 1) that
                    allows him access to the meaning that lies beyond the surface of appearances, a meaning available to
                    him because the landscape is infused with his past. His sharpened senses lead him to ruminate that
                    this kind of intimate knowledge of a particular place is becoming increasingly rare in a culture
                    that continually bombards its members with "uprooted images." "It is
                    never a simple matter," he says, "actually to see what is before your
                    eyes" (p. 3). Indiana's "unspectacular landscape" presents
                    special obstacles to perception and knowledge, requiring "an uncommon degree of
                    attentiveness and insight" (p. 7), attributes that Indiana's pioneering settlers
                    did not possess in abundance. Their utilitarian attitude toward the land blinded them to the
                    "sacred connection between a people and a landscape" (p. 7) that Native Americans
                    exemplified, and the pioneer legacy manifests itself today in efforts to push the landscape
                    "toward the industrial ideal of profitable uniformity" (p. 5). Responsible living,
                    concludes Sanders, requires that Hoosiers renew their vision of the  land and reestablish their spiritual connection to place in order to
                    prevent further neglect and destruction.
            The eleven essays that follow, by Michael Wilkerson, George Schricker, Jr., Mari Evans, Teresa
                    Ghilarducci, Michael Martone, Kay Franklin, William O'Rourke, Michael Schelle, Hal Higdon,
                    James Alexander Thorn, and James H. Madison, develop variations on these themes: the problems of
                    perception, the need to reexamine inherited traditions, the role of the creative individual, the
                    subtle and mysterious ties that exist between people and place, and the danger inherent in severing
                    those ties. While all of the essays are memorable and deserve comment, Schricker's urgent
                    call for atonement for the treatment of Native Americans, Evans's description of the
                    destructive ethos that exists for blacks amidst the apparent prosperity and progress of modern 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Martone's haunting depiction of life among the ruins in downtown 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , 
                        Franklin
                    's portrayal of the dominating influence and brooding presence of
                        Lake Michigan, and Thorn's discovery of strength and purpose in
                    his return to the hill country of 
                        Owen County
                     stand out.
            Although, as historian 
                        Madison
                     asserts in the concluding essay, Indiana has managed to avoid abrupt departures and
                    violent upheaval by its reliance on time-honored traditions, too much reliance on unexamined
                    tradition presents its own dangers. One is reminded of the frog mentioned in Schricker's
                    essay, who, put in a pot over a low fire, does not detect the gradual rise in water temperature
                    until it is cooked. This small volume represents an important step on the part of Indiana's
                    intellectual community in the direction of avoiding such slow disasters.
            J. KENT CALDER is the managing editor of the Indiana
                    Historical Society's magazine, Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History.
                    His article on the origins of the Lilly House mural appeared in the summer, 1990, issue.
         
         
            
               Women in Utopia: The Ideology of Gender in the American Owenite Communities. By
                    Carol A. Kolmerten. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1990. Pp. x, 209. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            Can socialism in any of its various forms fulfill its promise of equality? Carol A. Kolmerten argues
                    that the answer will be negative in regard to equality between the sexes until society frees itself
                    from "the ideology of gender," basically the assumption that there are naturally
                    distinct gender roles linked to different levels of power and opportunity unfavorable to women.
            This argument is the animus in Kolmerten's study of one of the earliest forms of modern
                    socialism, Owenism and its varied communal experiments in the 
                        United States
                     during the mid-1820s and later, especially 
                        New Harmony
                    . She depicts Robert Owen as 
                    
                  
                            ELIZA FLOWER C. 1882
                        
                  
                            Courtesy 
                                    Chicago
                                 Historical Society.
                        
               
                     little more than a casual advocate of equality whose real
                    leanings were patriarchal. As a result, at 
                        New Harmony
                     and elsewhere, Owen's vague promises of equality gave way to a social reality
                    where women not only were relegated to traditional "woman's work" but
                    wound up doing double duty by serving as wives for their families as well as workers for the
                    community. When they protested, they were treated like women; i.e., Owen refused
                    to take them seriously, and they soon grew rebellious, becoming an important cause of the speedy
                    dissolution of the Owenite communities. As a counterpoint, Kolmerten assigns one of her five
                    chapters to Frances Wright, a passionate advocate of sexual equality who, after her unsuccessful
                    experiment in an inter-racial community at 
                        Nashoba
                    , temporarily persuaded Owen's son, Robert Dale Owen, to join her in a crusade
                    for equality in the late 1820s, only to marry and eventually to fall victim to a male-dominated
                    world.
            This book has several flaws. Among lesser ones is a puzzling neglect of the women in Owen's
                    family; there is not a single reference to either his wife or his daughters, while two of his sons
                    get at least brief mention. Much more significantly, Kolmerten's preoccupation with gender
                    seriously narrows her vision. Undoubtedly Owen was guilty of patriarchism (a trait that offended
                    some men as well as women), but his biases need to be seen in the broader field of his enthusiasms.
                    Although he often identified with equality, the foundation of his New Moral World was the material
                    abundance that he believed humanity could produce under the right circumstances, an abundance so
                    great as to meet all human needs without necessarily destroying class and gender distinctions.
                    Kolmerton gives much too little attention to this and related matters, producing a narrow, static
                    fragment of Owen's system.
            With this important exception, however, Kolmerton is a conscientious scholar whose careful research
                    adds to an understanding both of the Owenite communities and of male-female relations in the early
                    nineteenth century. Also she has some interesting things to say not only about Owen but also about
                    various other figures related to his cause, people like William Thompson and Anna Wheeler, early
                    advocates of equality. If Women in Utopia is far from definitive, it does at least
                    help to sustain interest in humankind's efforts to transform social dreams into realities,
                    a necessary interest in the present all-too-unidealistic age.
            EDWARD K. SPANN is professor of history at Indiana State
                    University, 
                        Terre Haute
                    . His Brotherly Tomorrows: Movements for a Cooperative Society in America,
                        1820-1920 (1989) has two early chapters on Owenism. He has also completed works on Juliet
                    Peddle, an Indiana architect, and on the Hopedale Community in 
                        Massachusetts
                    .
         
         
         
            
               Forlorn Hope of Freedom: The Liberty Party in the Old Northwest, 1838-1848. By
                    Vernon L. Volpe. (
                        Kent
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1990. Pp. xxii, 236. Map, tables, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $24.00.)
            A leader of the abolitionist Liberty party, Salmon P. Chase, once described it as a "forlorn
                    hope of freedom," a movement of lofty goals but of disappointing impact. Vernon L. Volpe
                    borrows this phrase as the title of his informative study of that third party's history.
                    The author's point of departure is the work of Gilbert Barnes and Dwight Dumond, which
                    emphasizes the religious base of the crusade against slavery; but he has deepened the inquiry with
                    extensive use of firsthand sources—manuscripts, newspapers, and other materials. Volpe
                    has also related his own themes to those in the secondary literature of the post-Barnes years. A new
                    aspect is his analysis of electoral data, Liberty party voting in counties of Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and especially 
                        Ohio
                     where abolitionist churches were most active.
            From this investigation Volpe concludes that Barnes was right in emphasizing the religious dimension
                    of antislavery and is able to support that view with a convincing range of additional evidence.
                    Liberty, says Volpe, was not just another political party, for it focused on slavery as a sin to be
                    eradicated from corrupted antebellum institutions. The argument centers on Chase, the rising
                    antislavery Democrat of 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Although Chase assumed an important role in the national structure of the new party
                    and although he later helped amalgamate Liberty with the Free Soil party, he did not represent the
                    ideological core of Liberty. He would not disassociate himself from the Episcopal church, a
                    pro-slavery haven; nor did he worry about compromising principles by accepting Martin Van Buren, the
                    Democratic pragmatist, as presidential candidate in 1848. Reluctantly, the ranks of Liberty had to
                    follow. As a result, their religious perspective gave way to the politicians' strategy of
                    nonextension of the peculiar institution in the next decade. Many of them felt that they had failed,
                    rather than helped, to build a more effective party.
            The research for this volume is exhaustive, and the interpretation concerning the party's
                    religious foundation is sound. A regrettable feature is the rigorously condensed text, which leaves
                    an impression of factual overload. But that could reflect the commercial imperative of publishing.
            MAURICE BAXTER is professor of history at Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . He is the author of a biography of Daniel Webster and other publications on
                    nineteenth-century politics.
         
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Cleveland
                        : A Concise History, 1796-1990. By Carol Poh Miller and Robert Wheeler. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1990. Pp. x, 197. Illustrations, tables, index. Clothbound,
                    $29.95; paperbound, $10.95.)
            Publication of The Encyclopedia of 
                            Cleveland
                         History in 1987 was a landmark achievement in 
                        Cleveland
                     historiography. David Van Tassel and John Grabowski, editors of that work, are
                    supplementing it with a series of short, heavily illustrated volumes focused on particular topics.
                    This book, the first in the series, is perhaps atypical. It does not address a particular topic;
                    rather it is an overview of 
                        Cleveland
                    's history.
            The operative word in the book's title is concise. The reader is presented
                    with an almost unrelieved flow of names, dates, organizations, numbers, and percentages hooked
                    together in chronological sequence. This is not narrative history. The anecdotal, illustrative, and
                    interpretative material that would make it so is sparse indeed in this taut little volume. The book
                    is an up-to-date and generally accurate synopsis. The editors claim too much in describing it as
                    "a new synthesis and … interpretation" that will allow the reader to
                    "understand the political, economic, and cultural growth of the city" (p. ix).
            This book will best serve those seeking specific data or those wanting to know how persons and events
                    fit in chronological sequence. One's larger curiosity can then be served by referring to
                    the Encyclopedia for additional commentary. In that sense, this book serves as a
                    running guide to the Encyclopedia, the mother project out of which it grew. It
                    will be an easier reference to use than William G. Rose's fascinating but frustrating 
                  
                            Cleveland
                        : The Making of a City (1950), long a standard resource. Carol Poh Miller and
                    Robert Wheeler also address the forty-year period beyond the scope of Rose's work, a period
                    of profound change and significance for the Forest City.
            The final chapters, describing events of the last three decades, emphasize economic concerns. The
                    authors treat this troubled period with admirable candor and objectivity. From 1969 to 1979, they
                    write, 
                        Cleveland
                     suffered a "loss of confidence" as it was lashed by economic,
                    political, demographic, racial, educational, and environmental problems that seemed about to
                    overwhelm it. As this review is written, preliminary census figures place 
                        Cleveland
                    's population at about 500,000. This represents a population loss of 414,000
                    persons since 1950. That loss is both cause and effect of the conditions mentioned above. A final
                    chapter entitled "Comeback City?" expresses both caution and hope, a prudent
                    posture to take given 
                        Cleveland
                    's volatile history.
            More than fifty well-chosen illustrations enhance the book's effectiveness, especially as an
                    effort was made to use pictures that  relate to still visible
                    landmarks. They supplement the more eclectic illustrations in George Condon's 
                  
                            Cleveland
                        : Prodigy of the Western Reserve (1979).
            
               
                        Cleveland
                    , in common with other eastern and midwestern industrial giants, has had its moments of
                    progressive achievement. It also has survived extraordinary problems. Within the confining limits of
                    this book's format, Miller and Wheeler have done a workmanlike job. The larger
                    task—a modern narrative history of 
                        Cleveland
                    —remains to be accomplished.
            GEORGE W. KNEPPER, distinguished professor of history at
                    The University of Akron, has written widely on 
                        Ohio
                     themes. His most recent book, 
                  
                            Ohio
                         and Its People, was published in 1989.
         
         
            
               The Queen and the Arts: Cultural Life in Nineteenth-Century 
                            Cincinnati
                        . By Robert C. Vitz. (
                        Kent
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1989. Pp. xi, 322. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $27.50.)
            The 1990 controversy over the exhibit of Robert Mapplethorpe's photographs at 
                        Cincinnati
                    's Contemporary Arts Center provides an ironically appropriate counterpoint to
                    Robert C. Vitz's history of the arts during the "Queen City of the West"
                    's first century. Vitz ends his narrative with a question similar to that posed by Martin
                    B. Green in his The Problem of 
                            Boston
                        
                (1966): how did a city once seemingly so rich in cultural promise ultimately
                    produce so little of enduring value? Vitz never answers that question fully but does provide some
                    interesting glimpses into the problem.
            The cultural history of nineteenth-century 
                        Cincinnati
                     was shaped by the same forces that operated more broadly throughout what was then the
                    "West." Local boosters brayed bravely, and philanthropists occasionally anted up
                    generously, but geographical isolation—in the nineteenth century, especially, from
                    Europe—intellectual myopia, and rampant commercialism made it difficult for artists,
                    writers, performers, and impresarios to create and sustain a viable community as well as individual
                    recognition and reward. 
                        Cincinnati
                    , more particularly, rapidly lost its regional primacy to 
                        Chicago
                     and never attained a sufficient critical mass of tolerance, enthusiasm, and economic
                    support to encourage more than a complacent enjoyment of the traditional, usually with a Germanic
                    flavor.
            Vitz does a good job in chronicling the expressive life that did, if often only temporarily, find a
                    home in the Queen City. He describes the fortunes of the Beecher family, Rookwood Pottery, the
                    painters Frank Duveneck and Henry Farny, and the eccentric journalist Lafcadio Hearn. Vitz is at his
                    best in narrating a good story of conflict and does so in his accounts of the stormy career of
                    Theodore Thomas as orchestral director as well as of the early days of 
                    
                  
                            ELIZABETH NOURSE, "LA MÈRE," 1888
                        
                  
                            Courtesy Procter and Gamble Collection, 
                                    Cincinnati
                                .
                        
               
                     the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Art Museum and its rivals. Although he covers most of the (not overly numerous) high
                    points in literature, painting, and music, he oddly neglects architecture almost completely and has
                    little to say about the role of religion—especially Presbyterian and Roman
                    Catholic—in shaping the city's cultural ethos.
            
               The Queen and the Arts is a valuable and an enjoyable book. One wishes, though,
                    that the author had addressed the basic questions of urban cultural vitality more deeply and more
                    systematically, exploring the ways in which religion, ideology, ethnic and class questions, and
                    economics interact to nurture or discourage the flourishing of artistic expression, as did E. Digby
                    Baltzell in 
                  
                            Puritan
                        
                        
                            Boston
                         and 
                            Quaker
                        
                        
                            Philadelphia
                        
                (1979). On the whole, though, scholars and general readers concerned with 
                        Cincinnati
                     and/or with nineteenth-century cultural life should find Vitz's volume
                    rewarding.
            PETER W. WILLIAMS is professor of religion at 
                        Miami
                     University, 
                        Oxford
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , and is the author of Popular Religion in America (1980) and America's Religions (1990). With his 
                        Miami
                     colleagues Elliott J. Gorn and Mary Kupiec Cayton, he is editing the Encyclopedia of American Social History.
            
         
         
            
               One Woman's War: Letters Home from the Women's Army Corps,
                        1944-1946. By Anne Bosanko Green. (
                        St. Paul
                    : 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society Press, 1989. Pp. xxiv, 308. Notes, illustrations.
                    $22.50.)
            By the end of World War II over 200,000 young women had enlisted in various separately created military organizations. The placing of nearly a quarter million women in
                    military uniform in a direct chain of military command, albeit in separate units, was no small event
                    in American military and social history. Absent that event, Americans would not now be engaged in a
                    great debate about women in combat. The military has long since abandoned a separate female command
                    structure.
            In June, 1944, Anne Bosanko, a twenty-year-old college sophomore from 
                        Minnesota
                    , enlisted in one of the military units that had come to be called the Women's
                    Army Corps (WAC). The bulk of One Woman's War covers slightly more than
                    two years of private personal writings from Anne to the members of her family.
            One has the right to interpret past personal experiences in terms of present predispositions. If one
                    simply reads these fascinating letters without reference to later editorializing by the writer, and
                    without the insightful comments of the foreword, it is somewhat difficult to find any truly
                    deep-seated ideology, aside from an abiding love for family and a strong, straightforward,
                    uncomplicated patriotism. What stands out is a youthful cultural and intellectual curiosity that is
                    all over the field. Bosanko is perfectly willing to read the left-leaning P.M., as
                    well as the 
                        New York
                    
                    
                    Times. She loves and regularly reads the New Yorker, dances to
                    the music of Harry James, Glenn Miller, and Artie Shaw; goes to concerts of Jose Iturbi and Arturo
                    Toscanini; and admires Douglas MacArthur. She reads "deeply" into a contemporary
                    novel on the life of the Apostle Paul by Sholem Asch and goes to hear a then very young Charles
                    Laughton reading Walt Whitman. She refers to Jacques Barzun. Also on her literary plate are the
                    mystery writings of British novelist Dorothy Sayer and her Lord Peter Wimsey. In almost the same
                    sentences that Bosanko manifests attitudes that warm the heart of any advocate of the liberal arts
                    and humanities, she speaks of KP duty, hankies, boyfriends, and booze. On her twenty-first birthday
                    she writes home for a copy of her birth certificate so that she can buy booze in a bar.
            Certainly, it is not condescending to suspect that this letter writer was in the highest percentile
                    of intelligence and cultural interests of those women who entered the military service during World
                    War II. It is precisely because of this intelligence and the array of cultural interests that these
                    letters are relevant to an understanding of what was generally being experienced at that time.
                    Jacques LeGoff, contemporary French historian of consciousness, has coined the term
                    "history of mentality." Although this book of letters does not totally fit that
                    concept, and it is doubtful that the author intended to do so, a good deal of it is in that
                    category. Bosanko's consciousness in role playing as a letter writer, as a cheerful/dutiful
                    daughter together with her parents' reciprocal dearness-to-their-child and the
                    proto-domestic contentment, is utterly remarkable, as is the intellectual caliber of the written
                    thought and the popular culture that is reflected.
            ALLEN SHARP is chief judge, 
                        United States
                     District Court, Northern District of Indiana. He is also an adjunct member of the
                    history faculty of Butler University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
            
               Atlas of the North American Indian. By Carl Waldman; maps and illustrations by
                    Molly Braun. Paperback edition. (
                        New York
                    : Facts on File Publications, 1989. Pp. xi, 276. Illustrations, maps, appendix,
                    bibliography, index. Paperbound, $16.95.)
            Written for a general audience, this volume contains a potpourri of information on the history and
                    culture of Native Americans. Featuring over one hundred maps (original and reproductions), the
                    cartography is buttressed by a text, numerous photographs, line drawings, copies of paintings, and
                    appendixes. The volume covers a broad, if uneven, spectrum of Native American history, including
                    several maps and a limited textual discussion of the classic "civilizations" of 
                        Mexico
                     and Central America. The final chapters also devote five maps and several pages to
                    Native American communities in 
                        Canada
                    .
            
            The maps and appendixes are by far the most important contributions of this volume. The maps
                    illustrate a wide variety of subjects, both ethnographic and historical, and cover subjects as
                    diverse as the Creek War of 1813-1814, modern urban Indian centers, dominant types of housing or
                    shelter, and the use of jimson-weed and other psychotropics. Some of the maps, such as the
                    "Vegetation of North America" (p. 25) or "Patterns of Early European
                    Settlement" (p. 167) are presented in such a diminished scale that their lack of clarity
                    limits their effectiveness. Others such as "King Phillip's War, 1675-76"
                    (p. 92) or "The Flight of the Nez Perce" (p. 134) contain sufficient detail to
                    make them useful. Also valuable are the extensive appendixes, which contain lists of federal and
                    state Indian reservations, trust areas, and native villages, or Indian tribes in 
                        Canada
                    .
            The text is less useful. Although the author discusses the history and cultures of North American
                    peoples in general terms, his coverage of these subjects is, at best, uneven. Much of the discussion
                    of Indian-white interaction focuses on warfare, and although relations between Indians and European
                    Americans often were disrupted by conflict, they were also marked by considerable cooperation and
                    acculturation. Moreover, the text occasionally contains minor factual errors that sometimes cast
                    doubt on the author's familiarity with his sources. For example, as recent scholarship has
                    illustrated, Tecumseh was not a brigadier general in the British army, did not visit the South
                    during the fall of 1812, and was not taught academic subjects by Rebecca Galloway.
            In conclusion, this volume provides its readers with some useful maps, lists, and appendixes. It will
                    be of limited value to those historians and anthropologists whose particular research interests
                    focus on Native American subjects; it should prove more useful, however, for the general public and
                    for other scholars who need a quick cartographic reference for American Indian history.
            R. DAVID EDMUNDS, professor of history at Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , has written several books and articles on the Indian tribes of the Midwest and
                    currently is coauthoring a history of the conflict between the French and the Fox Indians.
         
         
            
               The War of 1812: A Forgotten Conflict. By Donald R. Hickey. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1989. Pp. xiii, 457. Illustrations, maps, note on sources, notes, index.
                    $32.50.)
            The best modern standard treatments of the War of 1812 include studies by Irving Brant, Harry L.
                    Coles, Reginald Horsman, James R. Jacobs, John K. Mahon, Pierre Berton, J. C. A. Stagg, and Glenn
                    Tucker. Except for the most recent ones by Berton (1980, 1981) and Stagg (1983), however, they are
                    somewhat dated. Further, they all tend to focus on particular aspects of the war, such as the
                    military or the political.
            
            The purpose of the present effort is more ambitious: to encompass politics, diplomacy, economics,
                    finance, and the military; to present a "general overview" of the war; to reassess
                    the sources and to look at some new material. In addition, Donald R. Hickey says his study is
                    designed both as a textbook and as a monograph.
            Such a goal is too much to expect from something less than three hundred pages of text. Hickey,
                    nevertheless, does synthesize much of the work of other historians and utilizes considerable
                    documentary material. In this connection, his meticulous documentation, which itself is over
                    one-third the length of the text, is one of the most valuable parts of the book. As this volume is
                    basically a general history of the War of 1812, one that will introduce many to "our most
                    obscure war," albeit "an important turning point, a great watershed" (pp.
                    1, 3), readers would have welcomed the addition of his working bibliography so that they could
                    pursue the subject in greater depth.
            Hickey is interested in the perspective and role of the Jeffersonian Republicans in the War of 1812
                    in all its ramifications. He argues that their particular aim in going to war was to win concessions
                    on maritime issues in order to vindicate American sovereignty both at home and abroad. The
                    British-Canadian-Indian factor was basically a sectional issue. The war could also preserve
                    Republican power, unify the party, and silence their Federalist critics. Republican expectations
                    were dampened by the decidedly mixed results of the military campaigns and the domestic turmoil of
                    the war years. The war's "most significant victory" was at the peace
                    table where the enemy was consistently outmaneuvered, not because of what the American diplomats won
                    but "because of what they avoided losing" (p. 281).
            The legacy of the war was considerable, nonetheless, affecting American expansion into 
                        Spanish West Florida
                    , Indian resistance to white advance westward, Canadian nationalism, peacetime defense
                    spending, the American economy, enduring Anglophobia, and America's reputation.
            DWIGHT L. SMITH is professor emeritus of history at 
                        Miami
                     University, 
                        Oxford
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . His books include The War of 1812: An Annotated Bibliography (1985).
                    His current research concerns a 
                        United States
                     judge for 
                        Mississippi
                     Territory.
         
         
            
               Monterrey Is Ours! The Mexican War Letters of Lieutenant Dana, 1845-1847. Edited
                    by Robert H. Ferrell. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1990. Pp. xiii, 218. Illustrations, notes, maps, index. $29.00.)
            "Every American soldier in the present war," observed a popular writer during the
                    conflict with 
                        Mexico
                    , "considers himself in some degree its historian." Regarded as
                    America's first foreign war, fought in a distant and exotic land, and seemingly imbued  with a laudable patriotic purpose, the Mexican War inspired a
                    torrent of writing among the soldiers who fought it, as they shared their experiences with their
                    friends and families back home. Writing materials were treasured items, and it was not unusual for
                    soldiers to outfit themselves with portable desks containing paper, pencils, pen and ink, and blank
                    notebooks. Hometown newspapers printed their reports, publishers competed for their diaries and
                    journals, and post offices nearest the fighting were choked with their letters.
            Napoleon Dana, twenty-four years old when the war began and newly married, was just such a soldier. A
                    graduate of West Point and a second lieutenant in the Seventh Infantry Regiment, he was assigned to
                    Zachary Taylor's Army of Occupation. Dana began writing to his wife from the encampment on
                    the Nueces River in August, 1845, and continued to write almost daily until the
                    spring of 1847. The last letter in this selection was written from a hospital in 
                        Jalapa
                     where Dana recovered from a wound suffered in the battle of Cerro Gordo. In the
                    intervening months his regiment had been among the first units to experience combat during the
                    bombardment of Fort Brown on the Rio Grande, had occupied Matamoros, endured the long, tiring, and
                    dusty march into northern 
                        Mexico
                    , fought valiantly in the desperate battle for the city of Monterey (as it was then
                    spelled), marched to Tampico to join Winfield Scott's expeditionary force, and participated
                    in the siege of 
                        Vera Cruz
                    .
            Dana's letters reveal a tender concern for his wife, while exhibiting a remarkable talent
                    for observation, colorful description, and dramatic narrative. Like many soldiers he was impressed
                    by the natural beauty and grandeur of the landscape through which he marched (a sunrise over the
                        Sierra Madre mountains inspired one of his most lyrical descriptions). At
                    the same time he shared the complaints about the intolerable heat, the swarms of insects that
                    "fly into our noses and mouths" and "get into our eatables" (p.
                    16), and the people he encountered in the villages that lay in the army's path. 
                        Mexico
                    , he concluded, was a "mean, miserable, dirty, good-for-nothing place"
                    (p. 108). The conflict, moreover, seemed a "strange kind of war" (p. 114) to Dana;
                    the army paid for everything the people were willing to provide and protected the civilians from the
                    "annoyances of our men" and even from Indian attack. "We ought to put the
                    rigors of war upon them," he suggested, "and spoil as we go" (p. 115).
                    Like most regular army soldiers Dana expressed contempt for the volunteers and disgust for the
                    praise and publicity that the volunteers invariably received.
            Robert H. Ferrell has kept his documentation to a minimum, too much so perhaps. While he has
                    faithfully identified all the fellow soldiers mentioned by Dana, he has left to the
                    reader's imagination episodes and circumstances that might better have been  explained. Nonetheless, FerrelPs edition of Dana's letters
                    takes its place among the best of the growing body of Mexican War soldiers' accounts.
            ROBERT W. JOHANNSEN is J. G. Randall distinguished
                    professor of history at the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , 
                        Urbana
                    -
                        Champaign
                    , and author of To the Halls of the Montezumas: The Mexican War in the
                        American Imagination (1985).
         
         
            
               Sunday School: The Formation of an American Institution, 1790-1880. By Anne M.
                    Boylan. (
                        New Haven
                    , 
                        Conn.
                    : Yale University Press, 1988. Pp. xii, 225. Tables, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliographical note, index. $26.50.)
            This is a very important book about an institution widely known but insufficiently appreciated in
                    American scholarship. It was not Anne M. Boylan's purpose to write a narrative history of
                    the Sunday school movement in America. Instead, she offers in relatively brief scope a highly
                    analytical work on the Sunday school as a religious institution in American society. This is an
                    account gratifyingly full of concrete detail. It draws very sensitively, for example, from the
                    diaries of individual teachers, revealing their perceptions of the ills of society, their fairly
                    predictable concerns for spiritual self-improvement, and their struggle with the restrictions upon
                    their autonomy imposed by the evangelical ideal of womanhood. Boylan argues that the attraction of
                    this work for young women "was part of the larger process whereby Protestantism became
                    ‘feminized’ in the nineteenth century" (p. 132).
            Boylan's analysis follows the first century of the Sunday school movement from its initial
                    efforts to provide instruction in reading for children of the very poor to its emergence in an
                    evangelical age as a means not only of education but of recruitment for the churches. One of the
                    very obvious strengths of this study is the way in which it places the analysis of the Sunday school
                    within the context of the many voluntary societies for Bible and tract distribution, for missions,
                    and for many aspects of American societal reform from asylums to slavery. It might be
                    appropriate—borrowing a term from the study of Utopian communities in this
                    period—to stress the fact that the Sunday school movement was not just voluntary but
                    intentional. People joined it for a purpose. In newly settled societies such as the states of the
                    Old Northwest, missionaries like John Mason Peck believed the Sabbath school might help to instigate
                    a revival of religion (p. 36).
            Based as it is on the study of a great many publications of Sunday schools and churches, of
                    benevolent and reform societies, and of private correspondence, minute books, and statistics, this
                    is a very well documented study, which is also carefully crafted and clear. A particularly important
                    contribution is the way in which Boylan relates the institution of the Sunday school to the history
                        
                    
                  
                            ADMISSION CERTIFICATE FROM BETHANY SABBATH SCHOOL IN PHILADELPHIA
                     
                        
               
                    
                  
                            
                        THE CONVERTED CHILD
                        , TINY PAPERBOUND BOOK TYPICAL OF THOSE OFTEN GIVEN TO OUTSTANDING SUNDAY SCHOLARS.
                        
                  Reproduced from Anne M. Boylan, Sunday School: The Formation of an American
                                Institution, 1790-1880 (
                                New Haven
                            , 
                                Conn.
                            , 1988), 1421, 49.
               
                     of American education. She has poured over teachers'
                    manuals, periodicals, and handbooks and tried to assess the role of new eductional ideas from
                    Europe. The early emphasis on religious conversion seemed to weaken toward midcentury as discussion
                    focused on techniques, professionalism, and nurture. A very interesting chapter at the end focuses
                    on the way in which teaching shifted to the more gradual changes contemplated in Horace
                    Bushnell's ideal of Christian nurture. Childhood in the new romantic understanding
                    challenged orthodox beliefs that, as one clergyman put it, children "are condemned
                    criminals, and they need pardoning mercy" (p. 147). The book closes with a brief return to
                    the comparison of American with British practice. Unlike the British, Americans have made the Sunday
                    school an effective tool in the fulfillment of their intention to Christianize America.
            PAUL E. BUSHNELL is associate professor of history, 
                        Illinois
                     Wesleyan University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . He is currently working on the founding of Lane Seminary in 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
         
         
            
               Abolitionist, Actuary, Atheist: Elizur Wright and the Reform Impulse. By
                    Lawrence B. Goodheart. (
                        Kent
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1990. Pp. xiii, 282. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $27.50.)
            Elizur Wright, sometime abolitionist, actuary, and atheist, seemed destined for the ministry. Born in
                    1804 to fervently religious parents, educated at that seedbed of evangelicalism, Yale College, and
                    then employed by Oberlin College, where religious commitment reigned, Wright must have felt all but
                    irresistible pressure to consecrate his life to the pulpit. But resist he did. As an Oberlin faculty
                    member in the 1830s, he became embroiled in a tooth-and-nail controversy between immediate
                    abolitionists and proponents of black colonization. His ready pen in the immediatist cause propelled
                    him from his frontier academic post to headquarters of the newly organized American Anti-Slavery
                    Society in 
                        New York
                    . As the society's secretary, he played a key role in the most aggressive and
                    fateful reform effort of the age. During that campaign his unbelief was honed. Concluding that the
                    conservatism of churches and clerics formed an obstacle to emancipation second only to that of
                    slaveholders themselves, Wright adopted an anticlerical, antireligious stance that led him finally
                    into the advanced freethought position that the author with probable exaggeration calls atheism. It
                    also led him into temporary poverty and joblessness as the antislavery coalition splintered and he
                    himself lost favor with the controlling groups.
            Most of the prominent abolitionists of the 1830s maintained at least minimal ties with the movement
                    as it evolved in later decades. Wright seems not to have done so. After several discouraging  efforts at publishing reformist newspapers, his career took an
                    unexpected turn. In the 1850s circumstances allowed him to help institute reforms in the infant life
                    insurance industry, whose mysteries were creating fortunes for a few manipulators and losses for
                    myriad small policyholders. Wright put his remarkable mathematical ability to the task of developing
                    actuary tables that removed some of the mystery and much of the chicanery from life insurance. This
                    was a permanent achievement from which millions of Americans have benefited.
            Lawrence B. Goodheart has performed the enviable feat of making the abstruse realm of insurance
                    statistics—of which Wright was master—comprehensible to the layman. For this
                    alone he deserves congratulation. In all, Goodheart has written a well-researched, engaging study of
                    a nineteenth-century figure whose varied accomplishments deserve to be better known.
            MERTON L. DILLON is professor of history at The 
                        Ohio
                     State University, 
                        Columbus
                    . He is the author of several books on abolitionism and has recently published a study
                    of slavery, Slavery Attacked: Southern Slaves and Their Allies, 1619-1865
                (1990).
         
         
            
               American Immigrants and Their Generations: Studies and Commentaries on the Hansen
                        Thesis after Fifty Years. Edited by Peter Kivisto and Dag Blanck. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1990. Pp. viii, 222. Illustration, notes, figures, tables, appendix, index.
                    $19.95.)
            Historian Marcus Lee Hansen mostly is remembered for his oft-quoted dictum about generational
                    relations: "what the son wishes to forget the grandson wishes to remember" (p.
                    195). Hansen's "principle of third generation interest" (p. 194)
                    influenced writing on immigration and ethnic history following its exposure in Commentary in 1952, which was fifteen years after Hansen dealt with "The Problem
                    of the Third Generation" before the Augustana Historical Society in 
                        Rock Island
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    . In 1987 editors Peter Kivisto and Dag Blanck, Augustana College faculty, invited
                    leading historians and social scientists to the school to assess the significance over the last
                    half-century of Hansen's thesis; they now have edited the proceedings.
            John Higham, Thomas J. Archdeacon, and Moses Rischin begin with essays that place Hansen's
                    work, including The Atlantic Migration (1940) and The Immigrant in
                        American History (1940), in historical context and propose the terms for its enduring
                    value. Particularly interesting is Higham's contrast of Hansen's narrative writing
                    with that of social historian John Bodnar of Indiana University. Five essays are directed toward
                    application of Hansen's thesis to specific ethnicities. Philip Gleason argues that Will
                    Herberg's Protestant, Catholic, Jew (1960) made the first critical use of
                    Hansen's thesis in applying it to American religion and finds the  fit more favorable to Jews than to Catholics or Protestants. Nathan
                    Glazer links generational interaction with specific historical change and shows how generational
                    standing and contemporary events combine to shape the Jewish quest. Arnold Barton notes, with
                    reservations, ways in which Hansen's thesis aids in comprehending Swedish-American history.
                    Standford M. Lyman questions Hansen's treatment of, and the relevance of the generational
                    thesis to, the black experience. Victor Greene amends Hansen's thesis by arguing that the
                    1920-1950 generation's devotion to native dance and music indicates an affinity with the
                    parent generation. In a final chapter Fred Matthews surveys the shifts in the study of immigrant
                    history.
            Although Hansen's thesis has been used to help explain up-drifts of interest in ethnicity,
                    speculations on the connections of his insight to the dramatic rise in immigrant numbers in the
                    1980s are not apparent in this volume. What does come through is that Hansen gave voice to a
                    demonstrable cultural phenomenon that should be considered in intergenerational research, but one
                    relative to time, place, and group. Moreover, his elevation of the principle as "applicable
                    in all fields of historical study" (p. 194) does not hold up. Readers may find that the
                    critique of Hansen's thesis, finally, is secondary to the welcome positing of current
                    direction in thinking about ethnicity and its historiography.
            The book's appendix provides the text of Hansen's Augustana address, along with his
                    long-forgotten essay "Who Shall Inherit America?" delivered in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1937 before, according to the editors, the National Conference of Social Work
                    (actually he spoke to the concurrent Conference on Immigration Policy). This was Hansen's
                    last address before his premature death in 1938.
            ROBERT M. TAYLOR, JR., is director,
                    Research Projects and Grants Division, Indiana Historical Society. He is the senior author of the
                    recently published Indiana: A New Historical Guide (1989), and he directs the
                    society's Ethnic History Project.
         
         
            
               The Reluctant Radicals: Jacob L. Beilhart and The Spirit Fruit Society. By James
                    L. Murphy. (
                        Lanham
                    , 
                        Md.
                    : University Press of America, 1989. Pp. xii, 263. Illustrations, notes, appendixes,
                    bibliography, index. $39.50.)
            Spirit Fruit Society, a small Utopian community that was founded in 1901 and that continued until
                    1930, has been the subject of significant scholarship over the past few years. No scholar, however,
                    has engaged in more painstaking research nor unearthed more details about the community than James
                    L. Murphy. For more than twenty-five years Murphy seemingly searched every nook and
                    cranny—as his acknowledgments and endnotes reveal— to furnish a more complete
                    picture of Spirit Fruit.
            
            Murphy provides a detailed look at Spirit Fruit from its beginnings in 
                        Lisbon
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , to its final days in 
                        California
                    . He makes it clear that the person, principles, and philosophy of Jacob L. Beilhart
                    were the driving forces behind the community. The charismatic presence of Beilhart dominated every
                    aspect of community life. Fortunately for his followers, he was a man of principle:
                    "dishonesty and hypocrisy were entirely foreign to his nature" (p. 4). His
                    influence continued even after his death in 1908. Indeed, Beilhart's daily messages to one
                    of his followers, "Ma" Young, were largely responsible for the continuation of the
                    community for an additional twenty-two years.
            Beilhart's philosophy was individualistic and egalitarian. As his creed was put into
                    practice at Spirit Fruit, it produced radical results and challenged prevailing beliefs and
                    institutions. For example, Beilhart advocated women's rights, and Murphy argues
                    convincingly that Spirit Fruit, in contrast to many nineteenth-century communes, lived up to its
                    egalitarian ideals regarding the role of women. On the whole, however, the members of Spirit Fruit
                    were "reluctant radicals," hesitant to broadcast widely their revolutionary views
                    and anxious whenever possible to avoid confrontation with the outside society.
            Although this book contains little analysis, it does furnish a wealth of new information about Spirit
                    Fruit. It includes, for instance, fresh and tantalizing facts about Beilhart's troubled
                    marriage to Louema, who in 1900 took her two children, Harry Harvey and Edith, and left. The
                    evidence suggests that Beilhart never saw them again. The question has always been—why?
                    Why would such a benevolent and principled man not maintain contact with his children? Murphy argues
                    that they were not Beilhart's children. Rather they were the offspring of C. W. Post, the
                    man who built a fortune on Postum and Grape Nuts. The Beilhart-Post relationship is only one of many
                    that Murphy charts in this book. In sum, Reluctant Radicals is rich in detail and
                    is a significant addition to Utopian literature. The story now awaits further analysis.
            JEANETTE C. LAUER is professor of history and dean of the
                    College of Liberal Studies at 
                        United States
                     International University, San Diego. Her recent publications include an
                    interdisciplinary study of marriage and the family, The Quest of Intimacy
                (1990).
         
         
            
               Pure Food: Securing the Federal Food and Drugs Act of 1906. By James Harvey
                    Young. (
                        Princeton
                    , 
                        N. J.
                    : 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1989. Pp. xiii, 312. Notes, illustrations, index. $29.95.)
            James Harvey Young complements his earlier studies of health quackery in the 
                        United States
                    , The Toadstool Millionaires (1961) and The Medical
                        Messiahs (1967), with this account of the battle for federal regulation culminating in the
                    adoption of the Food and Drugs Act of 1906. Along with drawing upon the formidable  body of published scholarship on the topic, he has done extensive
                    research in such primary sources as the Congressional Record; government documents
                    and reports; National Archives files; and food and drug industry, medical, and pharmaceutical
                    publications.
            Whereas most previous studies of the pure food campaign focus on the years immediately preceding the
                    enactment of the 1906 law, Young begins his story with the adoption of the Drug Importation Act of
                    1848 barring entry of adulterated drugs. He goes on to track in detail the vicissitudes of the drive
                    for a broad national law against adulterated food, drink, and drugs from the first introduction of
                    such a measure in Congress in 1879. In his final chapter Young reviews historians'
                    differing interpretations regarding the forces and motivations responsible for adoption of the 1906
                    law. He himself eschews any monocausal analysis in favor of a "pluralistic
                    explanation" (p. 291). He admits that "most of the larger elements of food
                    processing and drug manufacturing" had come to favor, or at least acquiesce in, federal
                    regulation to curb unscrupulous competitors, avoid the confusion and costs of a multiplicity of
                    state laws, and reassure domestic and foreign customers. He flatly concludes, however, that
                    "no food and drug law would have passed the Congress in 1906 because of business desire
                    alone" (p. 292).
            Young argues that "seven C's underlay the enactment of this pioneering
                    statute": "change" (the scientific and technological revolution of the
                    late nineteenth century); "complexity" (e.g., the breakdown of
                    local community ethical standards with the emergence of a national market);
                    "competition" among rival interests; "crusading" to arouse the
                    public; "coalescence," or coalition-building; "compromise" to
                    neutralize or reduce opposition; and "catastrophe"—the uproar and
                    anxieties spurred by Upton Sinclair's The Jungle—to supply the
                    final decisive push (pp. 4-6). Young downgrades Theodore Roosevelt as a "latecomer to the
                    food and drug crusade" who played no more than a "minor" role in the
                    bill's passage, although he acknowledges that TR's contribution to the
                    simultaneously adopted Meat Inspection Amendment was "more central" (p. 294).
                    Along with nearly all writers on the subject, he pictures Harvey Wiley as the single most important
                    influence in the battle for pure food, and he extols Wiley as "a sincere crusader,
                    committed absolutely to securing as strong a law as … the complex political situation
                    would permit" (p. 295).
            JOHN BRAEMAN, professor of history at the University of
                            
                  Nebraska-Lincoln
               , is the author of Albert J. Beveridge: American
                        Nationalist (1971) and Before the Civil Rights Revolution: The Old Court and
                        Individual Rights (1988).
         
         
            
               Places of Worship: Exploring Their History. By James P. Wind. (
                        Nashville
                    : American Association for State and Local History, 1990. Pp. xix, 145. Illustrations,
                    bibliographies, figures, appendixes, index. Paperbound, $14.95.)
            James P. Wind, program director of Lilly Endowment's religion division, believes that the
                    religious history of the 
                        United States
                    
                     is much broader than biographies of great church leaders and
                    theological speculations. The missing facet to the diamond is solid research on the individual
                    religious congregation. Here intersect the life of the parishioner, trends within the national
                    denomination, and the social, economic, and political changes in secular society. One must start at
                    the congregational level to understand the role of religious experience and values at the national
                    level. Simultaneously, one needs to recognize that broad movements have an effect on congregational
                    development, an effect generally ignored in many congregational histories.
            The author exhorts the would-be historian of a congregation to do more than extend vestry minutes,
                    collect cute tidbits, provide an account of the successes and foibles of clergy, list donors over
                    the decades, and report when the latest lighting was installed. The researcher needs to be aware of
                    the church's neighborhood and the social status of parishioners, discover what the site of
                    the parish plant communicates, and draw deductions from the church's interior. Where
                    furniture is placed and how people sit reveal something about the congregation, ranging from its
                    aesthetic tastes to theological principles. In order to understand the congregation's
                    unique character, the historian must observe the worship service and people's habits,
                    underline important shifts in decisions, describe the congregation's outlook and mission,
                    and even recognize its human failings.
            Despite his directions on how to draw up an outline and helpful hints on how to utilize archival
                    materials, Wind appears to demand the professionalization of congregational history in Indiana and
                    elsewhere. Wind's demand is timely, for today many are interested in
                    "nearby" or local history; professionals analyze the common person's
                    history within a national framework; and both individuals and groups seek to find their true
                    identity.
            Yet the professional will always need the history-minded parishioner to give flesh to the documentary
                    bones and to help counteract the harried pastor's lack of interest in history and the
                    church committee's preoccupation with details of the anniversary dinner. Also, where is the
                    professional to locate a wise denominational historian and archivist who can actually advise during
                    research and criticize an uneven draft text? Lastly, where is the professional to find the financial
                    support, which few congregations can afford, in order to write the kind of congregational history
                    envisaged here?
            JAMES J. DIVITA, professor of history at Marian College, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is the author of four congregational histories and a construction history of the
                    Catholic cathedral in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He is presently writing a centennial history of the city's St. Anthony
                    Parish.
         
         
         
            
               That Noble Dream: The "Objectivity Question" and the American
                        Historical Profession. By Peter Novick. (
                        Cambridge
                    , 
                        Eng.
                    : 
                        Cambridge
                     University Press, 1988. Pp. xii, 648. Notes, appendix, index. Clothbound,
                    $52.50; paperbound, $15.95.)
            Very few American historians are concerned with the issue of objectivity as Peter Novick defines it.
                    They should be, not only because greater self-awareness will eliminate some of the hubris of the
                    critical seminar but also, and more important, because as Pierre Bourdieu points out,
                    "Epistemological conflicts are always, inseparably, political conflicts: so that a survey
                    on power … could perfectly well consist of apparently epistemological questions
                        alone."1 Novick in a sense tests this view by tracing, examining,
                    and analyzing the actions and attitudes of historians from the founding of the American Historical
                    Association to the present. He derives his title from one of Charles A. Beard's more
                    pungent attacks on the objective school, which argued that a "true" history could
                    be written once all the "facts" had been "discovered."
            This is potent stuff. Novick has culled the papers of leading members of the profession and is
                    unsparing in pointing out the hypocrisy of scholars who claim professional objectivity but whose
                    blind ideological, racist, and religious prejudice is evident in their private correspondence. Some
                    Marxist and New Left historians fare little better when the inner contradictions of their work are
                    examined. Carl Becker and Beard loom large as pioneer relativists, while Frederick Jackson Turner is
                    written off ambiguously even if he did suggest that every generation should write its own history.
            Novick draws attention to historical controversies—they range from Sidney Fay vs
                    Bernadotte Schmidt to the Sears Case to the David Abraham episode—to highlight the
                    persistence of the objec-tivist-relativist debate in the profession. There is no doubt that dominant
                    schools of thought on this matter have played a large role in academic preferment. Even departments
                    have been fragmented when differences led to struggles for hegemony. Careers, he implies, have been
                    threatened or reduced to rubble.
            The book makes good reading but requires close attention. Graduate students, especially a new breed
                    of intellectual historians rather tired of social history with or without politics left in, will
                    find it a challenging and rewarding way to look at ideology, race, class, and gender. Surely it is
                    the best recent book on the profession, even if some individuals in it do not come off well. An
                    intelligent layman would find the book disturbing and disillusioning.
            
               
                  1 Pierre Bourdieu, "The Specificity of the Scientific Field and
                        the Social Conditions of the Progress of Reason," trans. Richard Nice, Social Science Information sur les Sciences Sociales (1975), 21.
            
            
            Novick is informed, intelligent, literate, witty, and very self-indulgent. Some subjects are explored
                    so far beyond necessity, especially current trends in literature, anthropology, and philosophy, that
                    the reader may lose the thread of explanation. Novick must feel his audience has not read widely
                    enough to understand his discussion. Some readers may be surprised to find themselves mentioned in
                    the text or notes and wonder why they were not invited to provide a context for their actions or
                    words. Perhaps in Novick's kind of intellectual history, which is of necessity selective in
                    its research design, this is inevitable.
            This is a highly personal and charged book. Adjectives abound as do ad hominem
                    comments, and Novick goes after people he does not like. For example, Novick defends his student
                    David Abraham in a problematic case of evidence. Novick seems to have written a book that he would
                    enjoy reading. Serious historians will find it evocative and rewarding.
            MARTIN RIDGE is a senior research associate at the 
                        Huntington
                     Library and professor of history at the 
                        California
                     Institute of Technology, Pasadena. He is currently working on a study of masterpieces
                    in American historical writing.
         
         
            The American Home Front During World War II
            October 18–20, 1991 Indiana University Bloomington, Indiana
            A major conference on the American home front during World War II will be held at Indiana University,
                    Bloomington, October 18–20, 1991. Sessions will cover such topics as public opinion and
                    citizen morale, economic mobilization, the roles of women, civil rights, films and music, and the
                    effects of war on children.
            The general public is invited to join distinguished historians in commemorating the 50th anniversary
                    of Rosie the Riverter and others who fought the war on the home front.
            For further information please write or call: Indiana University Conference Bureau, IMU
                    L–9, Bloomington, IN 47405. Telephone (812) 855–6449.
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Walter: An Airman's Life. By Marcia Brenneman. (
                        New Paris
                    , Ind.: The Author, 1989. Pp. 277. Illustrations, maps, notes. $21.95, plus
                    $2.50. Order from the author, 65566 
                        Washington
                     Rd., Apt. 2-A, 
                        Goshen
                    , IN 46526.) In August, 1943, on his thirtieth mission over the South Pacific,
                    Lieutenant Walter Brenneman died when his B-17 was shot down by a Japanese fighter.
                    Brenneman's death at the age of twenty-four was like the deaths of thousands of other young
                    Americans in those years, not unusually heroic and hardly worthy of even a footnote in the grand
                    histories of World War II. Yet this young man from 
                        Wakarusa
                    , Indiana, was special, to his family, his friends, his fiancee—people who
                    for the rest of their lives mourned him.
            Among Lieutenant Brenneman's family was a niece, too young to remember anything but his
                    memorial service. Marcia Brenneman set out to remember as historians remember, interviewing family
                    and friends, tracing newspaper accounts, reading through family correspondence and scrapbooks. Her
                    years of hard work have produced much more than a family memorial. Here is a history of one man that
                    connects to his place and time in such a way as to capture readers with no connection whatsoever to
                    Walter Brenneman. From Marcia Brenneman's descriptions of his childhood, his basketball
                    teams at 
                        Wakarusa
                     and at Indiana Central College, his engagement, his entry into the Army Air Force, his
                    last battle in the Pacific the reader comes to know Walter, to feel some of the connections his
                    niece has come to feel. And in the end one concludes that here is a book that deserves far more than
                    family and friends as readers. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Ethnic Settlement Patterns in 
                            Indianapolis
                        . By James J. Divita. ([
                        Indianapolis
                    ], 1988. Pp. viii, 119. Tables, maps. Paperbound.) Some very useful historical studies
                    are not published in traditional ways. Indeed, some are not "published" at all.
                    Such is the case with this examination of ethnic settlement patterns in the Hoosier capital, written
                    by Professor James J. Divita of Marian College in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Divita prepared the manuscript under contract with the state's Division of
                    Historic Preservation and Archaeology in order to "provide reliable data" to the
                    division and to "facilitate its work in evaluating ethnic-related buildings and sites for
                    inclusion  in the National Register of Historic Places"
                    (p. 1). Thus, the work exists only in an 8½-by-11 inch, spiral-bound format, with copies
                    on deposit in the Indiana State Library, Indiana Historical Society Library, and 
                        Indianapolis
                    -
                        Marion County
                     Public Library. The manuscript's limited availability is regrettable because
                    this is a compendium with which students of 
                        Indianapolis
                     history and Indiana ethnic history should be familiar. Divita has culled a broad range
                    of sources and brought together a vast amount of material concerning the city's population
                    composition over time. The 119 pages of text are supplemented by 20 tables and 58 maps. (Many of the
                    latter, unfortunately, did not reproduce well.) Divita observes that recently "new activity
                    has contributed to a greater consciousness of an ethnic presence in the city" (p. 3).
                    Divita's work, both here and in several other publications, helps to provide the historical
                    context for that raised consciousness. Robert G. Barrows, Indiana University-Purdue
                        University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            "Calumet Region Steelworkers' Tales; Featuring Richard M. Dorson's
                    ‘The Folklore of Steel,’" Steel Shavings, ed. James
                    B. Lane, XIX (1990), paperbound, $4.00. Richard M. Dorson's Millrat legacy continues. Fifteen years after an army of fieldworkers invaded the Calumet,
                    James B. Lane finds significant change in the occupational folklore of steelworkers. Because the
                    typical millrat of the 1990s is no longer a "fat, beer-drinking slob," one
                    narrator says, but a "knowledgeable, college-educated technician" (p. 36), a
                    flexible folklore has emerged to mirror lived experience. In addition, Lane concentrates on drug and
                    scatological stories (the latter influenced in part by increasing numbers of women steelworkers)
                    that Dorson either neglected or overlooked. Although somewhat lacking in analysis and
                    interpretation, this collection is an important update to the dynamic character of (occupational)
                    folklore. Order from: James B. Lane, History Department, Indiana University Northwest, 3400 
                        Broadway
                    , 
                        Gary
                    , IN 46408. 
                  
                            Chad Berry
                        , Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Shield of Republic/Sword of Empire: A Bibliography of 
                            United States
                         Military Affairs, 1783-1846. Compiled by John C. Fredriksen. (
                        New York
                    : Greenwood Press, 1990. Pp. xiii, 433. Indexes. $65.00.)
            Fredriksen's compilation is a companion volume to his Free Trade and
                        Sailors' Rights: A Bibliography of the War of 1812 (1985). There is some overlap,
                    but a researcher could consult both volumes with considerable profit because they list over 12,000
                    printed and unprinted sources that cover 
                        United States
                     military history from the Revolutionary War to the Mexican War. The bibliography under
                    review has almost 6,800 entries and is divided into five main sections: military actions; army;
                    navy; militia, 
                        Canada
                    , and Indians; and biographies. This book and its companion are indispensable guides to 
                        United States
                     military history. Douglas E. Clanin, Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
         
         
         
            Recent Articles, Books, Pamphlets, and Dissertations in Indiana History
            Compiled by Leigh Darbee
            
               Editor's Note. This list of articles, books, pamphlets, and dissertations
                    published from 1987 to 1990 is intended as a bibliographic contribution to Indiana's
                    history. We hope to present such a list in each March issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History. We recognize that the list is neither complete nor systematic in coverage, and we
                    hope that readers will help us by sending items for possible inclusion. We are especially interested
                    in listing publications that make some contribution to understanding Indiana's past but
                    that are not normally reviewed in the IMH. Generally, we will not list newspaper articles or
                    accounts of local historical society activities, but printed pamphlets as well as journal articles
                    may be listed. All such items for the March, 1992, issue must be received by November 1, 1991. Many
                    people have contributed to the present list, but major responsibility has rested with Leigh Darbee
                    of the Indiana Historical Society.
            
               Ames, Charlotte A., comp., Theodore M. Hesburgh: A Bio-Bibliography (
                            Westport
                        , 
                            Conn.
                        : Greenwood Press, 1989).
               
                  
                            Anderson
                        , Harold H., "An Indiana History of Morgan's Raid"
                        ([n.p.], 1989). [Typescript. Located in Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ]
               Anthony, Carl Sferrazza, "Anna Symmes Harrison: First Lady of the West," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Fall, 1990).
               Arnold, Eleanor, ed., Living Rich Lives (Indiana Extension Home-makers
                        Association, [1990?]). Order from: Indiana Historical Society, 315 W. 
                            Ohio
                         St., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46202. [Sixth in the series Memories of Hoosier Homemakers.]
               
               Bailey, Gary L., "A Midwestern City Embraces Corporate Industrial Capitalism: 
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana, 1900-1910," Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXIII (1988).
               Ball, Philip, Recollections of a Middletown Physician (
                            Muncie
                        : Ball State University, Friends of the Bracken Library, 1990).
               
                  Back Then … Selected Stories from Oral History Interviews ([
                            Columbus
                        , Ind.]: 
                            Bartholomew County
                         Historical Society, 1989). Order from: The Society, 524 Third St., 
                            Columbus
                        , IN 47201.
               
               Baxter, Nancy Niblack, "Growing Up in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," 
                            Marion County
                        -
                            Indianapolis
                         Historical Society Circular, X (Spring, 1990).
               Becker, Edwin L., "Sunday in Indiana Lutheran Churches," in American Lutheranism: Crisis in Historical Consciousness? (
                            St. Louis
                        : Lutheran Historical Conference, 1990).
               Bigelow, Bruce, "Nineteenth Century Indiana as Depicted by Edward Eggleston: Themes
                        for Historical Geography," Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXIII (1988).
               Blakey, George T., "Esther Griffin White: An Awakener of Hoosier Potential,"
                            Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVI (September, 1990).
               Blum, Susan, "Golden Hill: Lightly Touched by Time,"
                            Indiana Preservationist, No. 5 (September/October, 1990). [Residential
                        area of 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Blum, Susan, " ‘Terry Hut’ Home of Indiana's Favorite
                        Radical," Indiana Preservationist, No. 6 (November/December, 1989).
               Bodnar, John, "Power and Memory in Oral History: Workers and Managers at
                        Studebaker," in Memory and American History, ed. David Thelen (
                            Bloomington
                        : Indiana University Press, 1990).
               Bohm, Joan C., 
                     
                                Clinton County
                            , Indiana, Historical and Genealogical (
                            Frankfort
                        , Ind., 1989). Order from: Joan C. Bohm, 602 Ricker Dr., 
                            Frankfort
                        , IN 46041.
               Booher, Ned, 
                     
                                Kokomo
                            : A Pictorial History (
                            St. Louis
                        : G. Bradley Publishing Co., 1989).
               Boomhower, Ray, "Grouseland: The Home of William Henry Harrison," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Fall, 1990).
               Boomhower, Ray, "The Indiana Basketball Hall of Fame," Traces
                            of Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Summer, 1990).
               "
                            Bremen
                         in an Early Day," 
                            Marshall County
                         Historical Society Quarterly, XVIII (1989). [Reprint of 1887
                        article in the 
                            Bremen
                        
                        Enquirer.]
               
               Bremer, Richard G., Indian Agent and Wilderness Scholar: The Life of Henry Rowe
                            Schoolcraft (
                            Mt. Pleasant
                        , 
                            Mich.
                        : 
                            Central Michigan
                         University, Clarke Historical Library, 1987).
               Brown, J. Thomas, Public Accountability and Our Documentary Heritage: The Indiana
                            Access to Public Records Law (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Society of Indiana Archivists, 1989). Order from: Society of Indiana Archivists,
                        315 W. 
                            Ohio
                         St., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46202.
               Bryant, William O., Cahaba Prison and the "Sultana"
                        Disaster (
                            Tuscaloosa
                        : University of 
                            Alabama
                         Press, 1990).
               Calder, J. Kent, "The House of the Interpreter: Origins of the [Eli] Lilly House
                        Mural," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Summer, 1990).
               
               Caldwell, Howard, and Darryl Jones, "
                            Indianapolis
                        ," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Fall,
                        1990).
               Cantrell, Martha, "[Ambrose] Whitlock and [William Henry] Harrison Were Intimate
                        Friends," Montgomery Magazine, XV (September, 1990).
               Cantrell, Martha, "The [Ambrose] Whitlock Legacy and the Nieces," Montgomery Magazine, XV (November, 1990).
               Cantrell, Martha, "Large Crowd Welcomes President to 
                            Crawfordsville
                        ," Montgomery Magazine, XV (May, 1990). [Visit of
                        President William Howard Taft in 1918.]
               Carlson, Don W., "Remembering 
                            Elwood
                         and the Willkie Notification," Traces of Indiana and
                            Midwestern History, II (Summer, 1990).
               Carn, John Benjamin, Death and Duplicity: An Opinionated Expose (
                            Nashville
                        , 
                            Tenn.
                        : Winston-Derek Publications, 1989). [The case of Michael Taylor.] Order from:
                        Winston-Derek Publications, P. O. Box 90883, 
                            Nashville
                        , TN 37209.
               Cayton, Mary Kupiec, "Eating, Drinking, and Paying for It in the Frontier
                        Tavern," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Winter, 1990).
               Childs-Helton, Sally, "Music and Medicine in the Midwest: The G. G. Dawson Collection
                        [at the Indiana Historical Society]," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, II (Winter, 1990).
               Christian, Portia, comp., The Index to the Record Book of the 
                                Johnson County
                             Board of Justices, May 1826—January 1838 ([
                            Franklin
                        , Ind.], 1989).
               Cooper, Arnold, "Rev. John H. Clay and the 1879 Black Exodus to 
                            Greencastle
                        , Indiana: A Case Study of AME Church Leadership," Black
                            History News & Notes, No. 42 (November, 1990).
               Cunningham, Joan, "The Grand Body of Sisters of Charity," Black
                            History News & Notes, No. 39 (February, 1990).
               Daily, Gary W., Ida Husted Harper ([n.p.], 1988).
               Darbee, Leigh, "Which Then Was the Abolitionist?" Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Fall, 1990). [William Henry Harrison-Martin Van
                        Buren campaign broadside.]
               Darbee, Leigh, and Thomas Gentry, "Appointment at the End of the World: The Journey
                        of Prince Maximilian and Karl Bodmer," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                            History, II (Spring, 1990).
               Darlington, Jane E., comp., 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                            , 
                                Marion County
                            , Indiana, Mortality Record, 1 September 1872-31 December 1881 (
                            Bountiful
                        , 
                            Utah
                        : Precision Indexing, 1989).
               Davis, Marsh, "American Order Out of Continental Chaos," Indiana Preservationist, No. 3 (May/June, 1990). [Colonial Revival style of
                        architecture.]
               Davis, Marsh, "Gothic Revival Points the Way to Heaven," Indiana Preservationist, No. 1 (January/February, 1990).
               
               Davis, Marsh, "The Ts' Have It: Indiana's I-Houses," Indiana Preservationist, No. 5 (September/October, 1990).
               Davis, Marsh, "Italian Villa: Home of ‘Most Leisurely’
                        Class," Indiana Preservationist, No. 4 (July/August, 1990).
               Davis, Marsh, "Plain, Simple, Popular: American Foursquare," Indiana Preservationist, No. 2 (March/April, 1990).
               Davis, Marsh, "Romanesque Revival: Veni, Vidi, Vici," Indiana
                            Preservationist, No. 6 (November/December, 1989).
               Davis, Marsh, "The Saltbox, Spicing Up Hoosier Landscapes," Indiana Preservationist, No. 6 (November/December, 1990).
               Davis, Rodney 0., ed., "A Hoosier Family Moves West, 1865-1895," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVI (March and June, 1990).
               DePauw University Archives, Index: United Methodist Photographs (
                            Greencastle
                        , Ind., 1989).
               Dugdale, Dorothy, My Rear View (Memoirs of My Childhood) (
                            Indianapolis
                        : The Author, 1989). [Growing up in early twentieth-century 
                            Indianapolis
                        .] Order from: The author, 510 S. Rose, 
                            Bloomington
                        , IN 47401.
               Dulin, Wilma L., "Toward a More Evolved Presence: The Black History Collection of the
                        Indiana Historical Society," Indiana Libraries, IX (1990).
               Durnan, Mary, "Vanished Village—Sligo," 
                            Marshall County
                         Historical Society Quarterly, XVIII (1989).
               Durnan, Mary, "Vanished Village—Walnut," 
                            Marshall County
                         Historical Society Quarterly, XVII [i.e.,
                        XVIII] (1989).
               "Early Schools in 
                            Irvington
                        ," 
                     
                                Irvington
                             History Page (February, 1990).
               Eidson, William G., "Confusion, Controversy, and Quarantine: The 
                            Muncie
                         Smallpox Epidemic of 1893," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        LXXXVI (December, 1990).
               Eisinger, Peter K., and William Gormley, eds., The Midwest Response to the New
                            Federalism (
                            Madison
                        : University of 
                            Wisconsin
                         Press, 1988).
               Fletcher, Stephen J., " ‘Should I Phone Once More?’ Hoagy
                        Carmichael and Telephone Time," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern
                        History, II (Summer, 1990).
               Foster, Kathleen A., "Thomas Hart Benton's Indiana Murals: A Dream
                        Fulfilled," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Winter,
                        1990).
               Fox, Charles Elmer, Tales of an American Hobo (
                            Iowa City
                        : University of 
                            Iowa
                         Press, 1989). [Biography of "Reefer Charlie," from 
                            Charlottesville
                        , Indiana.]
               Funk, Arville L., "Buster Hall—Hoosier Hero of the 99th
                        Squadron," Black History News & Notes, No. 38 (November,
                        1989).
               Gaus, Laura, Ivy Tech, the First Twenty-Five Years (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Vocational Technical College, 1990).
               
               Gelsanliter, David, Jump Start: 
                                Japan
                             Comes to the Heartland (
                            New York
                        : Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 1990).
               [Gibbs, Wilma L.], "Civic Leaders and Their Letters," Black
                            History News & Notes, No. 40 (May, 1990). [Papers of prominent African
                        Americans in the collections of the Indiana Historical Society.]
               [Gibbs, Wilma L.], "Fortnightly Literary Club [of 
                            Indianapolis
                        ]," Black History News & Notes, No. 41 (August,
                        1990).
               [Gibbs, Wilma L.], "George P. Stewart and the 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Recorder," Black History News & Notes, No. 42 (November,
                        1990).
               [Gibbs, Wilma L.], "In Retrospect: The B[lack] W[omen in the] M[iddle] W[est] Project
                        at the I[ndiana] Historical] Stociety]," Black History News &
                            Notes, No. 39 (February, 1990).
               [Gibbs, Wilma L.], "McArthur Conservatory [in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ]," Black History News & Notes, No. 38 (November,
                        1989).
               Grannis, Marjory, et al., Visiting the Midwest's Historic Preservation
                            Sites: A Portable Walking Tour Guidebook (
                     Ottawa, Ill.
                  : Jameson
                        Books, 1990). Order from: Kampmann & Co., Inc., 226 W. 26th St., 
                     New York, NY
                   10001.
               Greengard, Robert, "Now That the Brick Mill is Gone," 
                            North Manchester
                         Historical Society Newsletter, VII (August, 1990).
               Gregory, Ross, "Politics in an Age of Crisis: America, and Indiana, in the Election
                        of 1940," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVI (September, 1990).
               Gunderson, Robert G., "Chief Tomah's Reply: A Pacific Footnote on the
                        Folklore of Tecumseh," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVI
                        (September, 1990).
               Gura, Philip F., "The Real History of Men and Women: Eggleston's The Transit of Civilization," Reviews in American History, XVII
                        (December, 1989).
               Hall, Michael, "Henry S. Lane—The Formative Years," Montgomery Magazine, XIV (December, 1989) and XV (February, 1990).
               Hall, Michael, "[Henry S.] Lane's Burst of Political Ambition is
                        Examined," Montgomery Magazine, XV (March, 1990).
               Hall, Patricia, "A Child at Heart: The Fanciful World of Johnny Gruelle,"
                            Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Fall, 1990).
               Hanners, John, "The Great Wizard of the North: John Banvard and His Floating
                        Theaters," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Spring,
                        1990).
               Hartley, W. Douglas, "Shadows of the Past: The Photographs of Otto Ping,"
                            Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Winter, 1990).
               
                  Historic Indiana: A Guide to Properties as Listed in the National Register of
                            Historic Places (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Department  of Natural Resources,
                        [1990]). [List complete through December 31, 1988.]
               
                  History and Families: 
                                Parke County
                            , Indiana, 1821-1989 (
                            Rockville
                        , Ind.: 
                            Parke County
                         Historical Society, 1989). Order from: 
                            Parke County
                         Historical Soceity, P. 0. Box 332, 
                            Rockville
                        , IN 47872.
               
                  History of 
                                Greene County
                            , Indiana, 1885-1989 (
                            Bloomfield
                        , Ind.: 
                            Greene County
                         Historical Society, 1989). Order from: 
                            Greene County
                         History Book Planning Committee, P. O. Box 301, 
                            Bloomfield
                        , IN 47424.
               Hoerr, John P., And the Wolf Finally Came: The Decline of the American Steel
                            Industry (
                            Pittsburgh
                        : University of 
                            Pittsburgh
                         Press, 1988).
               Hoke, B. R., "Forts in Their Established Order," 
                            Sullivan County
                         Historical Society Newsletter, XVI (November, 1989) and XVII
                        (January, 1990).
               Homoya, Michael, "One Man's Passion: The Golden Anniversary of Charles
                        Beam's ‘Flora of Indiana,’" Outdoor
                            Indiana, LV (September, 1990).
               Hoover, Dwight W., "Mayor Bunch and the Sporting Life in Middletown," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Winter, 1990).
               Hoover, Dwight W., Middletown Revisited (
                            Muncie
                        : Ball State University, 1990). [Ball State University Monograph #34.]
               Hosen, Frederick E., Unfolding Westward in Treaty and Law: Land Documents in 
                                United States
                             History from the Appalachians to the Pacific, 1783-1934 (Jefferson, N.C.:
                        McFarland, 1988).
               Hoy, Suellen, and Walter Nugent, "Public Health or Protectionism? The German-American
                        Pork War, 1880-1891," Bulletin of the History of Medicine, LXIII
                        (1989).
               Hudson, Patricia L., "Still Smiling at Seventy-Five," Americana, XVIII (November/December, 1990). [Raggedy Ann and Johnny Gruelle.]
               Hughes, Frances E., "Amalia Kussner: High Priestess of the Daintiest of
                        Arts," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Fall, 1990).
               "‘I'll Visit If I Live’: Letters to 
                            Oregon
                         from William Stafford," 
                            Marshall County
                         Historical Soceity Quarterly, XXIX [i.e., XIX]
                        (1990). [Stafford was from Argos, Indiana.]
               "Indiana Bicycle Company and the Waverley Cycle," 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Postcard Club, XVI (February, 1990).
               "
                            Irvington
                        's First Murder," 
                     
                                Irvington
                             History Page (February, 1990).
               
                  
                     
                                Jefferson County
                             Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 1989).
               
               Jeter, Marvin D., "H. J. Lewis, Freeman Artist: A Working
                        Paper," Black History News & Notes, No. 41 (August, 1990).
               Jeter, Marvin D., "Henry J. Lewis: A Researcher's Note," Black History News & Notes, No. 38 (November, 1989).
               Jones, Steve, "Treasured Memories of Christmas Days," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Fall, 1990).
               Jones, Timothy K., 
                     
                                Manchester
                             College: A Century of Faith, Learning and Service (
                            North Manchester
                        , Ind.: 
                            Manchester
                         College, 1989). Order from: The college, 
                            North Manchester
                        , IN 46962.
               Kautsky, Norman L., "Wharfleigh, and Other Haunts Along White
                                River: Recollections of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and Indiana in the '20s and '30s" ([1988?]).
                        [Typescript. Located in Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Kendall, Jerry D., and Patti D. Buchta, "Evolution or Revolution: Time Zone Change in 
                            Pike County
                        , Indiana," Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXIV (1989).
               Kennedy, Philip D., Hoosier Cabinets (
                            Indianapolis
                        : P. D. Kennedy, 1989). Order from: The author, 9256 Holyoke Ct., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46268.
               Kiemnec, Karen, "Indian School for ‘Savages’ Teaches Harsh
                        Lesson," Indiana Preservationist, No. 2 (March/April, 1990). [St.
                        Joseph's Indian Normal School in 
                            Rensselaer
                        , Indiana.]
               Kiemnec, Karen, "Unusual Clubhouse Has Roots in the Dunes," Indiana Preservationist, No. 6 (November/December, 1989).
               Krause, Martin, The Passage: Return of Indiana Painters from 
                                Germany
                            , 1880-1905 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Indianapolis
                         Museum of Art, 1990). Order from: 
                            Indianapolis
                         Museum of Art, 1200 W. 38th St., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , IN 46208.
               Kraybill, Donald, The Riddle of Amish Culture (
                            Baltimore
                        : Johns Hopkins University Press, 1989).
               Kyler, Merle, "Pioneer Days in Union Township," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXVII (August, 1989).
               Larson, John Lauritz, "Ruins and Old Routes: Tracking the Remains of
                        Indiana's 1836 Internal Improvement Program," Traces of Indiana
                            and Midwestern History, II (Spring, 1990).
               Latham, Charles, Indiana State Symphony Society, Inc.: The Founders,
                        1930-1937 (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Indianapolis
                         Symphony Orchestra, [1989]).
               Levin, Daniel, "The Jews of 
                            Hammond
                        , Indiana: Their Homes and Businesses, 1937-1954," Indiana Jewish
                        Historical Society Publications, No. 26 (June, 1990).
               Levine, Joseph, "Changes in 
                            Fort Wayne
                        ," Indiana Jewish Historical Society Publications, No. 26
                        (June, 1990).
               Lipin, Lawrence Mark, "Producers, Proletarians and Politicians: Opposition and
                        Accommodation in the Small Industrializing City, 1850-1887" (Ph.D. dissertation,
                        University of 
                            California
                        
                         at 
                            Los Angeles
                        , 1989). [Deals with 
                            New Albany
                         and 
                            Evansville
                        , Indiana.]
               Long, Judith Reick, "Gene Stratton-Porter: The Hum of Life," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Summer, 1990).
               Losco, Joseph A., and Thomas A. Sargent, eds., An American Community Celebrates
                            the Bicentennial of the 
                                United States
                             Constitution: Essays and Presentations (
                            Muncie
                        , Ind.: Ball State University, 1988).
               Lyons, Joan P., "The Eagle Village Hotel on the 
                            Michigan
                         Road," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, II
                        (Winter, 1990).
               McDowell, James L., "The Indiana General Assembly in 1989: Revolution or
                        Evolution?" Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXIV
                        (1989).
               McKown, June R., 
                     
                                Marion
                            : A Pictorial History (
                            St. Louis
                        : G. Bradley Publishing Co., 1989).
               McLellan, David, and Bill Warrick, The Lake Shore & 
                                Michigan
                             Southern Railway (
                            Polo
                        , 
                            Ill.
                        : Transportation Trails, 1989). Order from: National Bus Trader, Inc., 9698 W.
                        Judson Rd., 
                            Polo
                        , 
                            IL
                         61064.
               McNaughton, George T., "Ray Through a Prism: Impacts of Modernization on an Indiana
                        Covenanter Community (1830-1930)" (M.A. thesis, University of Notre Dame, 1989).
               Madar, Andre, "Back to School," Indiana Preservationist,
                        No. 1 (January/February, 1990).
               
                  
                            Madison
                        , James H., "Taking the Country Barefooted: The Indiana Colony in 
                            Southern California
                        ," 
                     
                                California
                             History, LXIX (Fall, 1990).
               
                  
                     
                                Marshall County
                             Interim Report (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, 1990).
               Marshall, Jon, "A Heart of Candy," Outdoor Indiana, LV
                        (November, 1990). [Raggedy Ann and Johnny Gruelle.]
               "Marshall Letter on Woman's Suffrage," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXVIII (February, 1990). [Letter
                        from Governor Thomas Marshall.]
               Martin, Fern Honeywell, and Paula Woods, Greater 
                                Lafayette
                            : A Pictorial History (
                            St. Louis
                        : G. Bradley Publishing Co., 1989).
               Menke, R. H., Hoosier Vignettes ([
                            Huntingburg
                        , Ind.]: Historical and Natural Area Conservation Trust, Inc., 1990). [
                            Dubois County
                        .] Order from: Styline Industries, 431 4th St., 
                            Huntingburg
                        , IN 47542.
               Miller, Joyce, "The 
                            Miami County
                         Connection to the 
                            California
                         Gold Rush," 
                            Miami County
                         Historical Society History Bulletin, XV (August, September, and
                        December, 1989).
               Munson, Patrick J., and Cheryl Ann Munson, The Prehistoric and Early Historic
                            Archaeology of Wyandotte Cave and Other Caves in Southern Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        : Indiana Historical Society, 1990). [Prehistory Research Series,
                        Vol. VII, No. 1.]
               
               Murphy, Thelma M., Transcript of Taped Interview with Thelma Murphy (
                            Indianapolis
                        : 
                            Irvington
                         Historical Society, 1990). [Original interview conducted during the 
                            Irvington
                         Oral History Project, 1981.]
               Neeley, George E., 
                     
                                Valparaiso
                            : A Pictorial History (
                            St. Louis
                        : G. Bradley Publishing Co., 1989).
               Newton, Judith V., "Theodore C. Steele: A Chronology," Traces
                            of Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Summer, 1990).
               Newton, Michael, and Judy Ann Newton, The Ku Klux Klan: An Encyclopedia (
                            New York
                        : Garland, 1990).
               "19th Century 
                            Irvington
                        ," 
                     
                                Irvington
                             History Page (May, 1990).
               
                  One Hundred and Fiftieth Anniversary (1838-1988), 
                                Burnsville
                             Christian Church ([
                            Burnsville
                        , Ind.?], 1988).
               
                  One Hundred and Fiftieth Anniversary: The Quest for Faith and Freedom (
                            St. Mary-of-the-Woods
                        , Ind.: Assumption Church, 1987).
               Passet, Joanne E., " ‘Like Seed Planted on Uncongenial Soil’:
                        Professional Education for Librarians in Early Twentieth Century Indiana," Indiana
                        Academy of the Social Sciences Proceedings, XXIII (1988).
               Peebles, Christopher S., ed., Current Research in Indiana Archaeology and
                            Prehistory: 1989 ([
                            Bloomington
                        ]: Indiana University, Glenn A. Black Laboratory, 1990).
               Peet, Bill, Bill Peet: An Autobiography (
                            New York
                        : Houghton Mifflin, 1989).
               Peterson, Norma Lois, The Presidencies of William Henry Harrison and John
                        Tyler (
                            Lawrence
                        : University Press of 
                            Kansas
                        , 1989).
               Pickerl, Lottie Logan, Exciting, True Stories (
                            South Bend
                        , Ind. The Author, 1988). [Reminiscences of life in 
                            Marshall County
                        , Indiana.] Order from: Northern Indiana Historical Society, 112 S. 
                            Lafayette
                         Blvd., 
                            South Bend
                        , IN 46601.
               Pickett, William B., "Excerpt from Homer E. Capehart: A
                            Senator's Life, 1897-1979," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History,
                        II (Summer, 1990).
               "The Pioneer: A History of the Crippled Children's Camp and Its
                        Founder," 
                            Marshall County
                         Historical Society Quarterly, XVII [i.e.,
                        XVIII] (1989).
               "Pioneer Memories of George Douglas Marks, 1860-1952," 
                            Marshall County
                         Historical Society Quarterly, XXIX [i.e., XIX]
                        (1990).
               Pocock, Emil, " ‘I enjoy but little sunshine on my path’:
                        Reverend James Welsh on Three Frontiers, 1790-1825," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, LXXXVI (December, 1990).
               Posey, John Thornton, "Governor Thomas Posey: The Son of George Washington?"
                            Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVI (March, 1990).
               
               Rappoport, Ken, Wake Up the Echoes: Notre Dame Football 100th Anniversary
                        Edition (
                            Tomball
                        , 
                            Tex.
                        : Strode Publishers, 1988). Order from: Strode Publishers, P. O. Box 626, 
                            Tomball
                        , 
                            TX
                         77375.
               Rehmer, Rudolph F., "Indiana Lutherans at the Nineteenth Century
                        Crossroads," in American Lutheranism: Crisis in Historical
                        Consciousness? (
                            St. Louis
                        : Lutheran Historical Conference, 1990).
               Rhodes, Joel, ed., 
                     
                                Centerville
                             at 175: A Review of Our Town, 1964-1989 ([
                            Centerville
                        , Ind.]: The Crusader, 1989). Order from: The editor, P. O. Box 26, 
                            Centerville
                        , IN 47330.
               
                  
                     
                                Ripley County
                             History, 1818-1988 (
                            Osgood
                        , Ind.: [Taylor], 1989). Order from: Fine Book Division, Taylor Publishing Co., P.
                        O. Box 105, 
                            Osgood
                        , IN 47037.
               Robinson, E. L., "Hindostan Falls—Past and Present," Outdoor Indiana, LV (April, 1990).
               Ruede, Velma Willsey, comp., The History of 
                                London
                             and 
                                Brookfield
                            , 
                                Shelby County
                            , Indiana ([
                            Shelby County
                        , Ind.], 1988).
               Ryan, Halford R., Henry Ward Beecher, Peripatetic Preacher (
                            Westport
                        , 
                            Conn.
                        : Greenwood Press, 1990).
               "S. J. Peabody, Lumber King," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXIV (i.e., XXVI]
                        (October, 1988).
               Schwarzlose, Richard A., The Nation's Newsbrokers: Vol. 2, The Rush to Institution, from 1865 to 1920 (
                            Evanston
                        , 
                            Ill.
                        : North; western University Press, 1990). [Material on William Henry Smith of the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News.]
               
               Seaver, James E., A Narrative of the Life of Mrs. Mary Jemison (
                            Syracuse
                        , 
                            N. Y.
                        : Syracuse University Press, 1990). [Reprint of 1824 edition.]
               Seigel, Peggy Erase, "She Went to War: Indiana Women Nurses in the Civil
                        War," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVI (March, 1990).
               
                  Selected Papers from the 1987 and 1988 George Rogers Clark Trans-Appalachian
                            Frontier History Conferences, ed. Robert J. Holden (Viiicennes, Ind., 1989). Order
                        from: Eastern National Park & Monument Association, George Rogers Clark National
                        Historic Park, 401 S. 2nd St., 
                            Vincennes
                        , IN 47591.
               Shaw, Ronald E., Canals for a Nation: The Canal Era in the 
                                United States
                            , 1790-1860 (
                            Louisville
                        : University Press of 
                            Kentucky
                        , 1990).
               Simons, Richard S., "The Eel River and Its Railroad," 
                            North Manchester
                         Historical Society Newsletter, VII (August, 1990).
               Skidmore, Richard S., ed., The Civil War Journal of Billy Davis (
                            Greencastle
                        , Ind.: The Nugget Publishers, 1989). Order from: The editor, 231 Hillsdale Ave., 
                            Greencastle
                        , IN 46135.
               Smith, Bruce, "Poor Relief at the 
                            St. Joseph County
                         Poor Asylum, 1877-1891," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        LXXXVI (June, 1990).
               
               Soltow, James H., Ninety Years: A History of CTS Corporation, 1896-1986 (
                            Elkhart
                        , Ind.: CTS Corp., 1987). Order from: CTS Corp., 905 W. Blvd. N., 
                            Elkhart
                        , IN 46514.
               Spurlock, John C., Free Love: Marriage and Middle-Class Radicalism in America,
                            1825-1860 (
                            New York
                        : 
                            New York
                         University Press, 1988). [Discusses 
                            New Harmony
                        , Indiana.]
               Steele, Selma N., "The House of the Singing Winds," Traces of
                            Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Summer, 1990).
               Steinson, Barbara J., "Memories of Hoosier Homemakers: A Review
                        Essay," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVI (June, 1990).
               Stevens, Kenneth R., "The Triumph of Old Tip: William Henry Harrison and the Election
                        of 1840," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Fall, 1990).
               Stix, Judith Saul, "Intimate Circles: Nineteenth-Century German Jewish Immigrants in
                        Northeastern Indiana," ([n.p.], 1989). [Typescript. Located in Indiana Historical
                        Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Stuckey, Clay W., "Origins of the Indiana Limestone Company" ([
                            Bedford
                        , Ind.: The Author], 1990). [Typescript. Located in Indiana Historical Society
                        Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .]
               Thomas, Bill and Phyllis, Indiana: Off the Beaten Path, 2nd ed. (
                            Chester
                        , 
                            Conn.
                        : Globe Pequot Press, 1989).
               Thompson, Donald E., "Copperhead Movement in 
                            Montgomery County
                        ," Montgomery Magazine, XV (March, 1990).
               Thompson, Donald E., "Travel Often Difficult for Early County Residents,"
                            Montgomery Magazine, XV (June, 1990).
               Thompson, Jean, "Historians Unaware of City's First Incorporation,"
                            Montgomery Magazine, XV (August, 1990). [Incorporation of 
                            Crawfordsville
                        , Indiana.]
               Thompson, Jean, "Joanna Lane Influential in Community, Nation," Montgomery Magazine, XV (May, 1990). [Mrs. Henry S. Lane.]
               Thompson, Jean, "Zerelda Wallace Was Prominent Crusader in the Midwest," Montgomery Magazine, XIV (December, 1989).
               Thumma, William, Early Aviation in Indiana (
                            Elwood
                        , Ind.: The Author, 1989). Order from: The author, 1314 Dulee Dr., 
                            Elwood
                        , IN 46036.
               Trusty, Lance, 
                     
                                Hammond
                            : A Centennial Portrait, 2nd ed. (Norfolk: The Donning Company, 1990).
                        Order from: 
                            Hammond
                         Historical Society, 564 State St., 
                            Hammond
                        , IN 46320.
               Vanausdall, Jeanette, "The Story of a Western Home: Eunice Beecher in
                        Indiana," Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History, II (Spring,
                        1990).
               Walters, H. Max, The Making of 
                                Connersville
                             and 
                                Fayette County
                             …, Vol. II (
                            Baltimore
                        : Gateway Press, 1989).
               
               Ward, Gertrude Luckhardt, Foster Bottling Works and the Fosler Family at 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana (
                            Centerville
                        , Ind.: Neighborhood Preservation Services, 1988).
               Warren, Kenneth, The American Steel Industry, 1850-1970: A Geographical
                            Interpretation, new ed. (
                            Pittsburgh
                        : University of 
                            Pittsburgh
                         Press, 1988).
               Warren, Stanley, "Percy L. Julian: The DePauw Years," Black
                            History News & Notes, No. 40 (May, 1990).
               Way, Frederick, Jr., with Joseph W. Rutter, comp., Way's Steam Towboat
                            Directory (
                            Athens
                        : 
                            Ohio
                         University Press, 1990).
               Wilkinson, William C., ed., " ‘To do for my self’: Footloose on
                        the Old Northwest Frontier," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVI
                        (December, 1990).
               Wineapple, Brenda, Genêt: A Biography of Janet Planner (
                            New York
                        : Ticknor & Fields, 1989).
               Wolfe, Rebecca, "The Splash and Splendor of Vincent Bendix," St. Joseph Valley Record, III (Fall, 1990). [
                            South Bend
                        , Indiana, businessman involved in automotive and aviation industries.]
               Zach, Karen, "Martin Was a Leader in Early City Endeavors," Montgomery Magazine, XIV (October, 1989). [W. K. Martin of 
                            Crawfordsville
                        , Indiana.]
               Zumbrun, Mrs. Rely, "Zumbrun Murder," 
                            Whitley County
                         Historical Society Bulletin, XXVIII (February, 1990). [Account of
                        notorious 
                            Whitley County
                        , Indiana, murder.]
            
         
         
            On page 277 of the September, 1990, issue of the Indiana Magazine of History, Glen
                    R. Willis should, of course, read Glen R. Hillis.
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
