
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 42, Issue 2, pages 107-206. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:42+issue:2+year:1946&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Money Question in Indiana Politics 1865–1890⋆
            
            WILLIAM G. CARLETON
            
            
               
                  Kansas, Nebraska
               , the Dakotas, and other trans-Mississippian states experienced in
                    the 1890's an agrarian crusade of tremendous proportions. Indiana went through a similar
                    period of agrarian radicalism in the 1870's. In both cases demands for monetary inflation
                    loomed large in the program of economic amelioration. It is the purpose of this article to trace one
                    aspect of agrarian radicalism in Indiana —the history of the inflation movement in the
                    state during the 1870's and the 1880's. This movement in Indiana never became as
                    evangelical or as spectacular as the free-silver agitation of the 1890's in the West and
                    the South, but it was persistent and in many ways similar. And like the later and more colorful
                    movement, it largely failed and was not able to check the relentless trend toward an industrial and
                    a conservative economy.
            The legal tender outstanding in 1865 amounted to $433, 000,000, and $145 of it
                    exchanged for $100 in gold. The contraction bill advocated in April, 1866, by Hugh
                    McCulloch was passed by both houses of Congress and became a. law. This act authorized the
                    retirement of $10,000,000 of the legal tender within six months and after that
                    $4,000,000 a month. The issue thus presented was as yet little understood by the voters
                    of Indiana, and the positions taken by the various members of the Indiana delegation in Congress
                    were not clarifying. Senator Henry S. Lane, Republican, voted for contraction, while Senator Thomas
                    A. Hendricks, Democrat, was significantly absent. Michael C. Kerr, Democrat, representative from the
                    second district, voted for the 
                  
                     ⋆ This article and the one which will follow in the next
                            issue of the Magazine were prepared in a seminar in 1925–1926
                            in Indiana University under the direction of the Editor when Mr. Carleton was a
                        senior.
               
                     measure. Kerr always leaned toward hard money. William E.
                    Niblack, the Democratic representative from the first district, did not vote. The remaining members
                    of the delegation were Republicans, and of these John H. Farquhar of the fourth district, Thomas N.
                    Stillwell of the eleventh district, and Henry D. Washburn of the seventh district voted for
                    contraction; Ralph Hill of the third district, George W. Julian of the fifth district, Joseph H.
                    Defrees of the tenth district, and Godlove S. Orth of the eighth voted against contraction; while
                    Ebenezer Dumont of the sixth and Schuyler Colfax of the ninth did not vote.1
                    Julian was later counted as a hard-money man, but it must be remembered that many conservatives,
                    including John Sherman of 
                        Ohio
                    , voted against the act of 1868, believing that the country was not yet ready for
                    contraction, and that McCulloch's schemes were premature. The large number of dodgers
                    showed that sentiment in Indiana had not yet crystallized, and that it was not considered
                    politically safe to be on either side. Opinion as yet was unformulated. The three affirmative votes
                    offset the three negative votes.
            In the midst of the depression of 1868, Congress by law ordered contraction to cease. The amount of
                    outstanding legal tender had been reduced to $365,000,000. The bill putting an end to
                    contraction passed the House on December 7, 1867, and every one of the ten Indiana representatives
                    who voted cast his ballot in the affirmative. The three Democrats, Niblack, Kerr, and Holman, all of
                    whom later became conservative on the money question, voted with the seven Republicans in favor of
                    the bill. Speaker Colfax was in the chair and was the only Indiana member who did not vote. The bill
                    passed the Senate on January 15, 1868, and both Morton and Hendricks voted for it.2 Morton was avid in his support of the bill. Opinion in the Indiana delegation was thus
                    unanimous, and sentiment in Indiana seems to have been overwhelmingly against contraction. Both
                    parties in Indiana in 1868 wanted the greenbacks restored.
            McCulloch was an Indianan, and his home was at Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . In the congressional election of 1866, he made several speeches in the state in favor
                    of the moderate reconstruction policy of President Johnson, and he appears to 
                  
                     1
                            Congressional Globe, 39 Cong., 1 Sess., 1854, 1614.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., 40 Cong., 2 Sess., 70, 537.
               
                     have wielded some influence in the Republican organization of
                    the state.3 But after 1866, Oliver P. Morton opposed McCulloch on every
                    important issue, becoming a leader of the radical reconstructionists in the Senate after his
                    election to that body in 1867, and a spokesman for the Western Republicans who favored cheap money.
                    So savage did Morton become in opposition to sound money that Daniel W. Voorhees, who became the
                    most conspicuous inflationist in the Democratic party, was wont to use in his own speeches
                    quotations from Morton's fulminations against hard money, and long after the Republican
                    party in Indiana had abandoned cheap money, Voorhees delighted to taunt his adversaries with the
                    vigorous inflation arguments uttered over and over again by the great Republican idol. Voorhees was
                    especially fond of quoting from Morton's speech in opposition to the Public Credit Act of
                    1869 in which the great Republican leader declared that "it would be foul injustice to the
                    government and people of the 
                        United States
                    , after we sold these bonds on an average of not more than 60 cents on the dollar, now
                    to propose to make a new contract for the benefit of the bondholders."4
                    It was Morton, not McCulloch, who expressed the aspirations of the Republicans of the state in the
                    years immediately following the Civil War.
            The state platform of the Republicans in 1868 was rankly radical on the money question. The platform
                    declared that 
                        the large and rapid contraction of the currency, sanctioned by the votes of the Democratic
                            party in both Houses of Congress, has had a most injurious effect upon the industry and
                            business of the country; and it is the duty of Congress to provide by law for supplying the
                            deficiency in legal tender notes, commonly called greenbacks, to the full extent required by
                            the business wants of the country.
                     In these words the platform approved the unanimous vote given by the Indiana congressional
                    delegation to the bill ordering contraction to cease: 
                        We cordially approve the course of the Republican members of Congress in their active support
                            of the bill prohibiting the further contraction of the currency, in which they faithfully
                            represented the will of the 
                        
                           3Francis M. Trissal, Public Men of Indiana, A
                                        Political History from 1860 to 1890 (2 vols., 
                                        Hammond
                                    , Indiana, 1922), I, 46.
                        
                           4 Matilda Gresham, Life of Walter Quintin
                                        Gresham, 1832–1895 (2 vols., 
                                        Chicago
                                    , 1919), I, 430–431.
                     
                             people of Indiana. And this convention expresses their
                            unwavering confidence in the wisdom and patriotism of Oliver P. Morton,… and we
                            send greeting to him … and assurance to him of our unqualified endorsement of his
                            course.
                    On the public debt question the platform said this: "The public debt made necessary
                    by the rebellion should be honestly paid; and all the bonds issued therefor should be paid in legal
                    tenders, commonly called greenbacks, except where, by their express terms, they provide
                        otherwise."5
            
            The Democrats entered the campaign of 1868 with a radical financial platform. It declared that:
                        
                        The national bank system, organized in the interests of the bondholders, ought to be
                            abolished, and the 
                                United States
                             notes substituted in lieu of the national bank currency, thus saving to the
                            people, in interest alone, more than eighteen million dollars annually, and until such
                            system of banks shall be abolished, we demand that the shares of such banks in Indiana shall
                            be subject to the same taxation, State and municipal, as other property of the State.
                    The platform further declared on the same subject:
                        That the bonds and other securities of the 
                                United States
                             with every other description of property, should bear its equal proportion of
                            taxation for State, county and municipal purposes, and to that end the bonds and other
                            securities of the 
                                United States
                             ought to be taxed by Congress for national purposes, in an amount substantially
                            equal to the tax imposed on property in the several States for local purposes.
                     The Democrats further asserted that they were in favor of "the payment of the
                    Government bonds in Treasury notes, commonly called ‘greenbacks,’ (except
                    where expressly made payable in gold by law,) at the earliest practicable point."6 The convention closed its platform labors with an eulogy of George H.
                    Pendleton of 
                        Ohio
                     whose slogan "The same currency for the bondholder and the
                    plough-holder" had made him the leading inflationist candidate in the Democratic contest
                    for the presidential nomination. The final platform resolution declared Pendleton to be one
                    "who has our entire 
                  
                     5
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, February 21, 1868; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Herald, February 21, 1868; William E. Henry,
                                State Platforms of the Two Dominant Political Parties in Indiana,
                                1850–1900 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1902), 34–35. The Indiana delegation to the Republican
                            National Convention of 1868 supported Grant and Colfax, both sound-money men, but other
                            considerations dominated the situation and entered into the choice.
                  
                     6
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, January 9, 1868; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Herald, January 9, 1868; Henry, State Platforms of the Two Dominant Parties, 32–34.
               
                     confidence and preference"—a pledge
                    sufficiently elastic to permit the practical politicians freedom of action at the national
                    convention.
            The Democratic national platform of 1868 was radical on the currency question. It declared for 
                        Payment of the public debt of the 
                                United States
                             as rapidly as practicable … and where the obligations of the
                            government do not expressly state upon their face, or the law under which they were issued
                            does not provide, that they shall be paid in coin, they ought, in right and in justice, be
                            paid in the lawful money of the 
                                United States
                            .
                     The Democrats promised "equal taxation of every species of property, according to
                    its real value, including government bonds and other public securities." Another plank
                    declared for "one currency for the government and the people, the laborer and the
                    office-holder, the pensioner and the soldier, the producer and the bondholder."7 The Indiana delegation favored the platform adopted, and it is noteworthy that
                    Joseph E. McDonald, who was destined to become an outstanding hard-money advocate, was the Indiana
                    member of the resolutions committee.
            On each of the first six ballots for a presidential candidate, Indiana cast a solid block of thirteen
                    votes for Pendleton. On the seventh ballot, while Pendleton was still the leading candidate before
                    the convention, and while he was still increasing his strength and adding to his total vote, Indiana
                    broke away from him, giving nine and one-half votes to her favorite son, Thomas A. Hendricks. It was
                    the first break from Pendleton, and it occurred in a Western delegation. 
                        New York
                     was quick to comprehend the possibilities of the situation and cast her solid block of
                    thirty-three votes for Hendricks on the following ballot. With a real opportunity thus presented to
                    nominate her favorite son, Indiana could not now turn back to Pendleton. The drift to the radical
                    candidate was checked, and Indiana, an inflationist state, produced the situation which destroyed
                    all chances for the nomination of an inflationist. At the close of the eighteenth ballot
                    Pendleton's name was withdrawn, and on the nineteenth the vote for Hendricks went up to one
                    hundred seven and a half. While the twenty-second ballot was in 
                  
                     7
                            Official Proceedings of the National Democratic Convention …
                            1868 (
                                Boston
                            , 3868), 58–61; 
                                Indianapolis
                            . Indiana, Journal, July 8, 1868; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, July 8, 1868.
               
                     progress, and when it appeared that a definite drift had set in
                    for Hendricks, for his vote stood at one hundred forty-five and a half, and immediately following
                    the switch of 
                        North Carolina
                     from 
                        Hancock
                     to Hendrich, the 
                        Ohio
                     delegation moved that Horatio Seymour be nominated and declared through its spokesman
                    that such a nomination would be acceptable to Pendleton. Seymour was then immediately and
                    unanimously nominated on the revised twenty-second ballot. Between an opportunistic Westerner, who
                    had deprived him of a real chance to be the nominee, and an honest conservative of the East,
                    Pendleton undoubtedly preferred the latter. The position of Thomas A. Hendricks on the money
                    question was anomalous. Speaking at the Masonic Temple at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on January 7, 1851, before the Indiana Constitutional Convention, Hendricks had
                    expressed very conservative ideas most emphatically. 
                        I have no doubt that the time will yet come when the world will look back on the system of
                            paper currency as a monstrous imposition and a strange delusion, as we now look back upon
                            the efforts of the tyrants of the East and the monarchs of 
                                England
                             to increase the wealth of their empires and kingdoms by debasing the coin.9
                  
                     Hendricks had always been regarded as a hard-money man. He had not voted on the contraction
                    bill in 1866. He had voted for the bill ordering contraction to cease in 1868, and in the same year
                    he was willing to be the standard bearer of the Democratic party on its soft-money platform. No
                    candid sincerity, no intellectual honesty impelled him to remark as Seymour had finely done that
                    "after all that has taken place, I could not receive the nomination without plating, not
                    only myself, but the great Democratic party, in a false position."10
                    Hendricks avidly sought the nomination. Significant it is, too, that, Hendricks’ support
                    for the presidential nomination came from 
                        New York
                     and the East and not from the West. Nevertheless, in the course of the campaign 
                  
                     8 The story of the long balloting is found in the Official Proceedings of the National Democratic Convention … 1868, pp.
                            75–161, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, July 8, 9, and 10, 1868; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, July 8, 9, and 10, 1868.
                  
                     9 John W. Holcombe and H. M. Skinner, Life and Public
                                Services of Thomas A. Hendricks (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1886), 417–418. The date is erroneously given as 1860, it
                            should be 1861.
                  
                     10
                            Official Proceedings of the National Democratic Convention …
                                1868, p. 153; 
                                New York
                            
                            Times, July 10, 1868; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, July 10, 1868.
               
                     of 1868, on September 13, Hendricks debated the issues of the
                    campaign with Governor Baker at 
                        Portland
                    , Indiana, and upheld the financial planks of the 
                        New York
                     convention, declaring pointedly that the bonded debt of the 
                        United States
                    , unless specifically provided for otherwise, should be paid in greenbacks, and that
                    only the interest should be paid in gold.11 The inflation sentiment existing in
                    Indiana in 1868 seems to have carried Hendricks with it. Later he again leaned toward sound money.
                    Fundamentally, he appears to have been conservative on the money question, but politically subject
                    to change with every fluctuation in public opinion. As a politician, he treated the issue as an
                    opportunist and not as a statesman.
            Both parties in Indiana were radical on the money question in 1868, each one attempting to outdo the
                    other in inflationist professions. Since both parties were radical, the issue was more or less
                    removed. The campaign turned on national issues, and the national issues revolved around
                    reconstruction. Grant carried Indiana over Seymour by a majority of 9,572, but Baker's lead
                    over Hendricks in the gubernatorial contest was only 961.12
            
            Wheat fell in 1869 lo ninety-three cents. Corn dropped in 1870 to thirty-eight cents and wheat
                    hovered around the dollar level.13 There was an intensifying of agrarian unrest
                    which boded ill for the party in power.
            The Democrats entered the campaign of 1870 with confidence. They presented the voters with a radical
                    platform. They declared that 
                        we are willing to pay our national debt, in strict compliance with our contracts, whether it
                            was made payable in gold or greenbacks, hut we are unwilling to do more than that; and we
                            declare that the five-twenty bonds are payable in greenbacks, or their equivalent; and we
                            condemn the policy of the Administration which is squandering millions of money by buying
                            such bonds at a high rate of premium, when the Government has the clear right to redeem them
                            at par. … That the business of the country demands an increased and maintained
                            volume of the currency; and the burthen of the public debt, the high rate of interest and
                            taxation imperatively forbid the contraction of the 
                        
                           11 Holcombe and Skinner, Life and Public Services
                                        of Thomas A. Hendricks, 495–510.
                        
                           12
                                    The Tribune Almanac and Political Register for 1869, p. 70.
                        
                           13
                           Report of the Commissioner of Agriculture for
                                        the Year 1869 (
                                        Washington
                                    , 1870), 29; Report of the Commissioner of Agriculture for
                                        the Year 1870 (
                                        Washington
                                    , 1871), 31.
                     
                             currency in the interest of the bondholders.
                            … That the shares of stocks in the National Banks ought to be subjected to school
                            and municipal taxation on the same conditions as other property. … That the bonds
                            of the 
                                United States
                             ought to be taxed by Congress for national purposes to such an extent as will
                            substantially equalize the taxation of such bonds with other property subject to local
                            taxation.
                     The resolutions also contained a plank which made a bid to the wet voters of the state. It
                    declared that "any attempt to regulate the moral ideas, appetites, or innocent amusements
                    of the people by legislation is unwise and despotic."14 Thus fiscal
                    radicalism and an appeal to the wet elements were united in a program calculated to please the
                    voters, a union effected and assiduously maintained by the Democrats for the succeeding three
                    decades.
            The Republican platform of 1870 was not as radical as that of 1868. Its language was guarded. It
                    declared that 
                        the national debt …, however great the burden, must be cheerfully borne, until
                            honorably and honestly extinguished in accordance with the letter and spirit of the several
                            laws authorizing the debt; and that all attempts at repudiation of principal or interest
                            should meet the scorn and denunciation of an honest and patriotic people. … That
                            we are in favor of a currency founded on the national credit, as abundant as the trade and
                            commerce of the country demand; and that we disapprove of all laws in reference thereto
                            which establish monopoly or inequality therein.
                     It will be noted that the currency plank was conveniently vague. The platform also declared
                    in favor of "moral legislation," stating that it was "the duty and right
                    of the Stat? … to establish, foster and secure the highest moral and
                    intellectual development of the people."15
            
            The Democrats carried the state in 1870. The state ticket won by majorities ranging from 2,600 to
                    3,100. The result was a surprise to the Republicans, who believed that the addition of the Negro
                    vote had made them invincible.16 The economic discontent of the day expressed
                    itself in the Democratic victory.
            
               
                  14
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Journal, January 10, 1870; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Daily Sentinel, January 10, 1870; Henry, State Platforms of the Two Dominant Parties, 36–37.
               
                  15
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Daily Sentinel, February 23, 1870; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Journal, February 23, 1870; Henry, State
                            Platforms of the Two Dominant Parties, 37–40.
               
                  16
                        The Tribune Almanac and Political Register for 1871, p. 63; John B. Stoll, History of the Indiana Democracy (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1917), 243–244.
            
            
            Agrarian conditions were slightly better in 1872 than they had been in 1870, but ad a general thing
                    the depression continued. Wheat rose to $1.26 in 1871 and to $2.32 in 1872.
                    Corn fell to thirty-seven cents in 1871 and lo twenty-nine cents in 1872. Rye was seventy cents in
                    1870 and sixty-five cents in 1872. Barley was eighty-three cents in 1870 arid sixty-nine cents in
                    1872. Buckwheat was seventy-one cents in 1870 and eighty-five cents in 1872. Hay was
                    $11.46 in 1870 and $12.53 in 1872.17 Corn, oats, and
                    potatoes, however., were lower, and corn was Indiana's leading crop.
            The Democrats and Liberal Republicans fused in 1872. The Democrats were divided on the question of
                    fusion, and the party leaders were uneasy. Greeley was an advocate of sound money, and a majority of
                    the seceding Republicans were of like faith. In Indiana the leading Liberal Republican was George W.
                    Julian, and on the money question he was conservative. In order not to offend their new Republican
                    allies, therefore, the Democratic state platform of 1872 avoided all mention of the money question.
                    Instead, the Democrats emphasized the corruption of the Grant administration and the iniquities of
                    radical reconstruction in the South. The platform was virtually a reiteration of that written by the
                    Liberal Republicans at 
                        Cincinnati
                    .18
            
            No such unduly pressing practical need compelled the Republicans to be so wary, but the national
                    Republican administration was conservative, and consequently, the Republican platform was even more
                    conservative than it had been in 1870, notwithstanding the survival of a large radical element in
                    the Republican party of Indiana. The Republicans virtually declared that the situation existing was
                    satisfactory to them and endorsed the conservative policy of the administration as typified by
                    Boutwell's conduct of the Treasury Department. The platform declared that "the
                    adherence of Congress and the administration to the present financial policy —in spite of
                    the hostility of political opponents—has been fully justified by the payments made on the
                    public debt, and in the stability, security and increased confidence it has given to all the
                    business affairs of the country." No currency plank 
                  
                     17
                            Report of the Commissioner of Agriculture for the Year 1871 (
                                Washington
                            , 1872), 22; Report of the Commissioner of Agriculture for the Year
                                1872 (
                                Washington
                            , 1373), 17.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, June 13, 1872; Henry, State
                                Platforms of the Two Dominant Parties, 40–41.
               
                     occurred in the platform. The Republican platform of 1872 was a
                    far cry from the radical utterance of 1868.19
            
            There was no great amount of enthusiasm for Grant in Indiana, but there was none for Greeley. Joseph
                    E. McDonald flatly refused to support the Tribune editor, and Daniel Voorhees felt
                    that it was almost sacrilege to do so. Hendricks was the Democratic candidate for governor, and he
                    was personally very popular. Thomas M. Browne, the Republican gubernatorial candidate, was known to
                    be intemperate, and this lost him many votes. Hendricks carried the state by 1,148 votes, but the
                    General Assembly was Republican on joint ballot by a majority of twelve, and this assured the
                    re-election of Morton to the Senate. The Democratic candidate for State Superintendent of Public
                    Instruction was the only Democrat elected with Hendricks.20
            
            The people were restless, there was widespread economic discontent, and it seems that if the
                    Democrats had divorced themselves entirely from the Liberal Republicans and had boldly put out a
                    Democratic ticket on an inflationist platform, that they would have stood a good chance to carry the
                    state. Instead they supported Greeley, paraded Carl Schurz up and down the state,21 flooded the voters with the polemics of Julian, alienated thousands of strict party
                    Democrats, and emphasized political issues which never caught fire. They called attention to the
                    grievances of the South without offering a remedy for the economic grievances of the Indiana farmer.
                    A single Voorhees, repeating the arguments for cheap money in a score of rural Hoosier settlements,
                    would have come much nearer to carrying the state for the Democrats.
            George W. Julian and Isaac P. Gray never returned after 1872 to the Republican fold. Henceforth both
                    acted with the Democratic party. Julian was a political liberal, but conservative on the money
                    question. Gray was more radical, and his views on financial questions were closer to those of
                    Voorhees, Turpie, Landers, and Williams than they were to those of McDonald, Kerr, and English.
            
               
                  19
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Journal, February 23, 1872; Henry, State
                            Platforms of the Two Dominant Parties, 42–43.
               
                  20
                        Annual Report of the Secretary of State of the State of Indiana, for the Year
                            ending October 31, 1874, p. 142; The Tribune Almanac ad Political Register
                            for 1874, p. 67
               
                  21 Stoll, History of the Indiana Democracy,
                        255–258.
            
            
            After the election of 1872, there was a growing feeling among the farmers of the state that both the
                    major parties had abandoned economic liberalism. The Republican platform of that year had endorsed
                    the fiscal policies of the Grant administration and had contained a plank only tepidly protesting
                    against any further grants of public lands to railroads. The Democratic party apparently had
                    abandoned its radicalism of 1868 and 1870, and not a single plank of its 1872 state platform
                    suggested methods of economic amelioration. Seemingly, the only alternative left to the farmer was
                    to organize independently of the two major parties.
            As agrarian discontent increased, the agricultural fraternity known as the Patrons of Husbandry or
                    the Grange grew in membership, power, and influence. The first Grange organized in the state
                    appeared near 
                        Terre Haute
                     on December 21, 1869. The State Grange of Indiana was organized on March 1, 1872, and
                    John Weir of 
                        Terre Haute
                     became its first master. At the beginning of 1874, there were 423 Granges in Indiana;
                    in March there were 985; in June there were 1,409 with a membership of 53,141. By January, 1875,
                    there were 2,994 Granges organized, and by the middle of that year the State Grange paid the
                    national dues on 59,981 members.22 This represented the high water mark of the
                    organization in Indiana.
            At first the order confined itself to agricultural education, social diversion, and protection of the
                    farmer in his commercial dealings. By 1873, the Indiana Grange actively was engaged in a campaign
                    which had for its purpose the regulation of the railroads. In May, 1873, F. C. Johnson, a state
                    deputy of the Grangers, represented the Indiana Grange at the conference of the American Cheap
                    Transportation Society held in 
                        New York
                     City. In October of the same year, Johnson stated in an interview given to the public
                    through the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Sentinel that freight rates could be reduced by about fifty per cent.23 At its annual meeting in 1874, the Indiana State Grange passed a resolution
                    denouncing the excessive freight rates of the railroads and requesting Congress 
                  
                     22 Oliver H. Kelley, Origin and Progress of the Order of
                                the Patrons of Husbandry in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1875), 180, 215–216, 374; State Grange, Patrons of
                                Husbandry of the State of Indiana, Proceedings, 1874. (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1874), 34; Logan Esarey, History of Indiana (2
                            vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1918), 11, 854.
                  
                     23
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Sentinel, October 10, 1873.
               
                     and the General Assembly to pass remedial legislation.24 From freight rates the Grange soon turned to inflation.
            A severe financial panic occurred in 1873. Hog prices, which had hovered around six and seven dollars
                    since 1870, fell to $3.61. Wheat fell to $1.22 in the same year, and in 1874
                    fell to ninety-four cents. Corn, however, rose to forty cents in 1873 and to fifty-one cents in
                        1874.25 But despite this increase corn was still low in price, and the small
                    rise did not offset the greater losses sustained in wheat and hogs.
            Immediately, the old demand for more money was revived. A series of meetings held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     between October 25 and November 14, 1873, resulted in the organization of an
                    independent party. These meetings were attended by prominent farmers and men influential in the
                    Grange. The moving spirits were E. A. Olleman, editor of the Indiana Farmer, who
                    possessed a genius for organization, and James Buchanan, the slashing editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sun. Buchanan was shrewd and able, and the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune dubbed him the "political Moses of the ‘New
                    Party.’ "26 At the third of these meetings, held the first
                    week in November, the aspirations of the reformers were put together in a set of resolutions which
                    later became the corner stone of the National Greenback party under the name of the
                    "Indiana Plan." These resolutions attributed the panic to lack of sufficient
                    circulating medium and declared it the duty of Congress to provide an elastic currency. They claimed
                    that persons possessing government bonds should be permitted to deposit them with the 
                        United States
                     Treasurer and draw out an equal amount of greenbacks, and that the depositor might, as
                    soon as he chose, redeem his bonds by returning the currency, no interest accruing on the bonds
                    while so deposited. The resolutions further declared that the whole issue of legal tender notes then
                    authorized by law should be put into circulation at once.27
            
            The State Grange at its meeting at 
                        Valparaiso
                     on November 
                  
                     24
                            State Grange, Patrons of Husbandry of the State of Indiana, Proceedings,
                            1874, p. 30.
                  
                     25
                     Report of the Commissioner of Agriculture for the Year
                                1873 (
                                Washington
                            , 1874), 22, 39; Report of the Commissioner of Agriculture for the
                                Year 1874 (
                                Washington
                            , 1875), 28.
                  
                     26 Solon J. Buck, The Agrarian Crusade
                                    (
                        New Haven, Connecticut
                     , 1920), 82.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, November 6, 1873.
               
                     27, 1873, took practically the same position.28 From the first the relations between the leaders of the Greenbackers and the leaders of the
                    Grange were intimate. Henley James of 
                        Grant County
                    , prominent in the Grange, became a prominent Greenbacker, and Worthy Master of the
                    State Grange headed the Gretenback ticket in the campaign of 1878. The movement also attracted a few
                    politicians, the most famous being the affable Judge David Kilgore.
            The Greenback movement in Indiana has been exaggerated due to the great influence the Indiana
                    organization wielded in the founding and development of the National Greenback party. The
                    inflationist sentiment of Indiana expressed itself more effectively in the Democratic party, and,
                    while the Greenback organization furnished many original ideas which ultimately found expression in
                    Democratic platforms, as an active and effective political organization attaching to itself
                    widespread and popular support, it cannot be said to have been very successful in Indiana.
            Following the panic of 1873, the sentiment of the country was so strongly in favor of more money that
                    the Secretary of the Treasury was impelled. to change for bonds $26,000,000 of legal
                    tender which McCulloch withdrew but did not destroy, thus raising the amount outstanding to
                    $382,000,000. But public opinion, particularly in the West, demanded a still greater
                    inflation of the currency. The Senate passed a bill on April 6, 1874, to increase the outstanding
                    amount of legal tenders by $18,000,000. Oliver P. Morton led the forces supporting the
                    bill, and both he and Daniel B. Pratt, his Republican colleague, voted for it.29
            
            The Inflation Bill passed the House on April 14, nine Republican members from Indiana voted in favor.
                    of passage. Niblack, the Democratic representative from the first district, and William S. Holman,
                    the Democratic representative from the third district, voted against the bill. Both belonged to the
                    conservative wing of the Democratic party. Simeon K. Wolfe, the Democratic representative from the
                    second district. and Henry B. Sayler, the Republican representative from the tenth district,
                    refrained from voting.30 The latter was an out 
                  
                     28
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, November 26 and 28, 1873; Esarey, History of Indiana, II, 872.
                  
                     29
                            Congressional Record, 43 Cong., 1 Sess., 2825–2835.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., 3073; Journal of the House of Representatives of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 43 Cong., 1 Sess., 801–802 (serial no. 1593).
               
                     spoken inflationist, but the conservative element of the
                    Democratic party under the able leadership of Michael Kerr was active in his district at this time.
                    A movement was on foot to replace Wolfe by nominating Kerr, and the radical representative probably
                    decided that inactivity was the prudent policy to pursue.
            When Grant vetoed the Inflation Bill the whole West was furious. There was considerable feeling in
                    Indiana. In their denunciation of the President the Republican papers were more vehement than the
                        Demacratic.31 The Democrats recognized the clash between Roscoe Conkling and
                    Morton, and openly rejoiced at the drubbing administered to the Indiana Senator. Morton had
                    confidently believed that the President would sign the bill, and his disappointment and humiliation
                    were keen. But Democrats and Republicans alike united in a condemnation of the veto.
            The Senate failed to pass the bill on April 28 over the President's veto. Pratt voted with
                    the inflationists, and Morton also would have voted to override the President, but he was paired
                    with Senator Morrill, who opposed the bill, and neither he nor Morrill voted.32
                    It is evident that Indiana Republicans had returned to their radical position of 1868.
            The first state convention of the Greenback party was held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on June 9 and 10, 1874. Judge Kilgore presided. The platform demanded that greenbacks
                    should be the only circulating paper money and that they be interchangeable with government bonds.
                    It further declared that the war debt should be paid as it was contracted, that is, in greenbacks.
                    The resolutions declared against consolidation of the railroads, oppression by the banks, ruinous
                    rates of interest, the squandering of the public domain, and manufacturing, land, commercial, and
                    grain monopolies. A full state ticket was placed in the field.33
            
            The Republicans flirted with radical doctrines, but were guarded and brief in their platform
                    treatment of them. The 
                  
                     31 Compare the editorial in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, April 23, 1874, with that of the 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Sentinel for the same date.
                  
                     32
                            Congressional Record, 43 Cong., 1 Sess., 3436; Journal of the
                                Senate of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 43 Cong., 1 Sess., 505 (serial no. 1579).
                  
                     33
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Sentinel, June 10 and 11, 1874; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, June 10 and 11, 1874; Henry, State Platforms of the Two Dominant Parties, 44–46.
               
                     only reference to the burning financial question was this plank
                    in the Republican platform: 
                        We are in favor of such legislation on the question of finances as shall make National
                            banking free; as shall furnish the country with such an additional amount of currency as may
                            be necessary to meet the wants of the agricultural, industrial and commercial interests of
                            the country—to be distributed between the sections according to
                            population—and such as, consistent with the credit and honor of the nation will,
                            avoid the possibility of permitting capitalists and combinations of capital from controlling
                            the currency of the countrg.34
                  
                    
            
            This plank was construed as a radical declaration by the Republican press and was so considered by
                    Morton. Throughout the campaign Morton preached inflation. Benjamin Harrison and Walter Q. Gresham
                    were chagrined that the Republican party had not come out definitely for sound money. Administration
                    supporters and Eastern Republicans could not understand the position taken by Indiana Republicans.
                    While on a visit to Indiana in 1872, Secretary of the Treasury Benjamin H. Bristow confided to
                    friends that Morton had ruined the chances of the Republicans in Indiana.35
            
            The Democratic State Convention of 1874 was under the control of Voorhees and Governor Hendricks.
                    Hendricks apparently was impressed with the widespread popular demand for more money, and he
                    acquiesced in the radical financial planks advocated by Voorhees.36 On the
                    inflation question the Democrats "outinflated" the Greenback inflationists. They
                    even demanded the repeal of the Public Credit Act of 1869, which provided that the government bonds
                    should be paid in coin. If this act were repealed, the federal government could pay the principal of
                    its bonded indebtedness in legal tenders.
            Michael Kerr and Joseph E. McDonald disapproved of the action of the state convention. Kerr returned
                    to his home in New 
                        Albany
                     and made the race for Congress in the second district as the Democratic candidate on a
                    platform declaring for sound money.37 McDonald openly repudiated the financial
                    planks of his party platform, and in a speech at 
                        Greencastle
                    
                    
                  
                     34
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, June 17 and 18, 1874; Henry, State Platforms of the Two Dominant Parties, 47–49.
                  
                     35 Gresham, Life of Walter Quintin Gresham, I, 426.
                            Chapter 26 gives a good account of Gresham's position on the money question.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., chapter 26; also the 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Sentinel, July 15, 1874; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, July 15, 1874.
                  
                     37 Gresham, Life of Walter Quintin Gresham, I,
                            426–427.
               
                     in the course of the campaign boldly espoused the cause of
                    sound money.38 McDonald spent much of his time during the campaign in the second
                    district speaking for Kerr.
            As the campaign progressed the enthusiasm of Hendricks for the financial planks of his
                    party's platform oozed away. Hendricks was looking to the Democratic presidential
                    nomination in 1876, and the money "heresies" of the Indiana Democracy were not
                    popular in the East. Through the pages of the 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Courier-Journal, Colonel Henry Watterson was aiming cutting shafts of ridicule at
                    Hendricks, and the Courier-Journal was widely read by the Democrats of southern
                    Indiana. Concerning the state convention of the Democrats, the Courier-Journal had
                    said sardonically: 
                        Take Indiana, for example. The last Democratic Convention was an offense to decency and
                            intelligence. The only brave man of influence in it was Mr. Kerr. … Nothing could
                            more conclusively show what a farce it is to talk of Hendricks for the White House. It was
                            Dan Voorhees’ work certainly; for he wants to be the only Daniel in the
                            lion's den, and is always able to raise the devil among the sheep and the doves
                            represented and led by the sweet-faced kid in the executive mansion at 
                                Indianapolis
                            .39
                  
                    
            
            Before the campaign closed Hendricks had come over to a sound-money position, and an agreement had
                    been reached whereby the Governor was to use his influence with the Democratic members of the
                    General Assembly to secure the election of the conservative McDonald to the Senate, and the
                    conservatives were expected to stand by Hendricks in the contest for the presidential nomination in
                    1876. Until Hendricks had switched, Daniel Voorhees was slated for 
                        United States
                     Senator. Voorhees quickly scented the deal struck, and cuttingly insinuated that he was
                    tempted by no "glittering purse in the shape of an office."40
            
            Inflation won a great victory in Indiana in 1874. The Democrats earned every state office. The
                    Democratic candidate for Secretary of State won over his Republican opponent by 17,252 votes. The
                    percentage of votes as reflected in the contest for Secretary of State was 52.49 percent for the
                    Democrats and 47.51 per cent for the Republicans. J. B. Stout, the Greenback candidate for Secretary
                    of State, polled 
                  
                     38 Stoll, History of the Indiana Democracy, 262.
                  
                     39 Gresham, Life of Walter Quintin Gresham, I,
                            428–429.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 429.
               
                     16,233 votes; the Greenback candidate for Treasurer polled
                    19,047; and the Greenback candidate for Auditor, Attorney-General, and Superintendent of Public
                    Instruction each polled over 18,000 votes.41 The Greenbackers polled ten or more
                    per cent of the votes for every state office in twenty-one counties.42 The real
                    strength of the inflationists was revealed in the vote cast for Horace P. Biddle of 
                        Logansport
                     for Judge of the Supreme Court from the newly created fifth judicial district. His
                    majority of 25,46543 represented the combined Democratic and Greenback majority,
                    although Biddle's majority should have gone to about thirty-four thousand if there had been
                    a working fusion everywhere in the state.
            Eight of the thirteen congressional districts sent Democrats to Congress. Democrats were elected from
                    the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, seventh, tenth, and twelfth districts. In the seventh
                    district the inflationists won an especial victory. 
                        Franklin
                     Landlers of 
                        Morgan County
                    , a radical Democrat, was nominated for Congress by the Democrats and was endorsed by
                    the Greenbackers. Landers defeated General John Coburn in the election. In 1874 the seventh district
                    included 
                        Marion
                    , 
                        Hendricks
                    , 
                        Morgan
                    , and 
                        Putnam
                     counties.44
            
            The victory of Kerr in the second district was a victory for hard money. The radical Democrats of the
                    district concentrated on General John T. Cravens, who had the support of Wolfe, the Democratic
                    representative of the district at that time. Copies of the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Enquirer containing the inflationist speeches of Voorhees were sent through the
                    district in an attempt to defeat Kerr. Hundreds of Republicans, led by Walter Q. Gresham, supported
                    Kerr. The latter owed his slender victory to Republican votes. The Democratic state ticket had a
                    majority of 4,800 in the district, while Kerr's lead was only 1,000.45
                    This notable victory of a conservative who successfully defied his inflationist party in the
                    inflationist district of an inflationist state made Kerr nationally famous 
                  
                     41
                            The Tribune Almanac and Political Register for 1875, pp. 78–79.
                  
                     42
                     Annual Report of the Secretary of State of the State of
                                Indiana, for the Year ending October 31, 1874, pp. 137–147. The counties
                            were 
                        Benton, Blackford, Boone, Clinton, Delaware, Grant, Greene, Hancock, Henry, Jasper, Jay, Johnson, Montgomery, Newton, Owen, Pike, Steuben, Sullivan, Tippecanoe, Warren
                     , and 
                                Whitley
                            .
                  
                     43
                     The Tribune Almanac and Political Register for
                            1875, p. 78.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., 79.
                  
                     45 Gresham, Life of Water Quintin Gresham, I,
                        432.
               
                     and very popular with conservatives, and in 1875 he was elected
                    Speaker of the House.
            As a result of the election, the Democrats numbered eighty-three in the General Assembly, having
                    twenty-three members in the Senate and sixty in the House. The Republicans could muster only
                    fifty-four votes on joint ballot, numbering twenty-two in the Senate and thirty-two in the House.
                    The Greenback party held five seats in the Senate and eight in the House, totaling thirteen on joint
                        ballot.46
            
            In the election of the General Assembly of a 
                        United States
                     Senator in the winter of 1875, the inflationists lost the fruits of their victory. The
                    result of the election turned on personalities and the exigencies of party politics. The name of
                    Voorhees was presented and withdrawn. McDonald received the support of the Hendricks cohorts and
                    became the nominee of the Democratic caucus. Senator Daniel Pratt was the Republican nominee to
                    succeed himself. The irrepressible James Buchanan was the Greenback candidate. McDonald received
                    seventy-six votes, Pratt forty-one, and Buchanan thirteen.47 Thus the Democrats
                    sent to the Senate a thorough conservative and the Republicans voted to re-elect a man whose record
                    on the money question had been consistently liberal until December, 1874, when he had cast an
                    affirmative vote for the Specie Resumption Act.
            But the legislature that sent McDonald to the Senate was not conservative. David Turpie, an
                    inflationist, was elected Speaker of the House.48 Three radical bills, each of
                    which sought drastic regulation of the railroads, developed considerable strength;49 and a joint resolution introduced in the House instructing the Indiana senators and
                    requesting the Indiana delegation in the lower house of Congress to vote for the 3.65
                    Interconvertible Bond Bill commanded formidable support, but finally was laid upon the table.50
            
            The Specie Resumption Act became a law on January 14, 1875.51 It provided that
                    the legal tender notes be retired as 
                  
                     46
                            The Tribune Almanac and Political Register for 1875, p. 78.
                  
                     47
                            Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1875, pp.
                            222–226.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., 7.
                  
                     49
                            Journal of the Senate of Indiana, 1875, pp. 102, 273, 562,
                            686–687, 825, 828.
                  
                     50
                            Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1875, p. 81.
                  
                     51
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, XVIII, 296.
               
                     new national bank notes were issued until the greenbacks
                    outstanding were $300,000,000. To get gold for the purpose and to maintain resumption the
                    Secretary of the Treasury was to sell bonds for coin until he had $100,000,000 of specie
                    on hand.
            The vote of the Indiana congressional delegation on resumption presented a most curious reversal of
                    conditions. In the Senate both Morton and Pratt voted for the measure. In the House nine of the
                    Republican members voted for the bill and one did not vote. The three Democratic members, Niblack,
                    Wolfe, and Holman voted against resumption.52
            
            The Republicans had voted solidly for the Inflation Bill in 1874, yet eight months later they voted
                    solidly for resumption. This right-about-face is even more remarkable considering the strong
                    inflation sentiment in the state as manifested in the election of 1874. But nationally the
                    Republican party was becoming more and more conservative, and the congressional defeat of 1874
                    showed the party that it must make a choice between the East and the West. Already it had elected to
                    support an Eastern and an industrial economy. The tug of party loyalty was too much for the Indiana
                    Republicans: they capitulated.53 The vote of Orth for resumption was to plague
                    him in the gubernatorial race of 1876.
            Niblack and Holman were personally conservative money men, and in 1874 they had voted against the
                    Inflation Bill. But the Indiana Democracy had become definitely inflationist, and Holman and Niblack
                    merely voted the sentiments expressed in the 1874 state platform of their party. Wolfe was an honest
                    inflationist, and he undoubtedly voted his sentiments.
            So encouraged were Buchanan and Olleman at the showing made by the radical forces in 1874 that they
                    decided to launch a movement looking toward the formation of a definite third-party organization.
                    Accordingly, a national convention was held in 
                  Cleveland, Ohio
               , in March of
                    1875, and a national 
                  
                     52
                            Congressional Record, 43 Cong., 2 Sess., 188, 319; Journal of
                                the Senate of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 43 Cong., 2 Sess., 68 (serial no. 1628); Journal of the
                                House of Representatives of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 43 Cong., 2 Sess., 137–138 (serial no. 1633).
                  
                     53 The position of Morton on the financial question is given in
                            William D. Foulke, Life of Oliver P. Morton (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1899), II, chapter XV. It is possible that Morton was partially
                            actuated by the lure of the Republican presidential nomination in 1876.
               
                     party organization perfected. Twelve states were represented.
                    Olleman became national chairman of the new party and Buchanan was chosen secretary. The Specie
                    Resumption Act of 1875 was denounced and the leading features of the Indiana Plan were endorsed.
            Olleman and Buchanan began active organization work in Indiana. Greenback clubs appeared in various
                    parts of the state. The "Capital" club of 
                        Indianapolis
                     numbered two hundred fifty members. One in 
                        Terre Haute
                     was reported to have six hundred mernber.54 As a general thing,
                    these clubs came to be more radical than the party organization, and under the direction of Marcus
                    M. or "Brick" Pomeroy, national organizer, they became quite incorrigible.55
            
            Through these clubs in various parts of the state, delegates were chosen to attend a state convention
                    of the new party at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , February 17, 1876. There were more than 350 delegates present representing fifty-four
                    counties. In their platform the Greenbackers declared for the unconditional repeal of the Resumption
                    Act, for the refunding of the national debt at 3.65 per cent. and for the essential features of the
                    Indiana Plan.56
                    
                        Franklin
                     Landers, who was serving a term in the lower house of Congress as a result of the
                    fusion of Democrats and Greenbackers in the seventh district election of 1874, was nominated for
                    governor. Anson Wolcott of White County was nominated for lieutenant-governor.
            The national convention of the Greenback party was held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on May 17, 1876, with 240 delegates representing eighteen states. This convention
                    called for the "immediate and unconditional repeal of the Specie Resumption Act."
                    David Davis of 
                        Illinois
                     was turned down as a candidate, and Peter Cooper of 
                        New York
                    . and Senator Newton Booth of 
                        California
                     became the nominees of the party for president and vice-president respectively. Senator
                    Booth declined the nomination arid General Samuel F. Cary of 
                        Ohio
                     was substituted. The Indiana Idea had dominated the convention.57
            
            The Republican platform of 1876 was more liberal than one would expect, considering the support that
                    Indiana members 
                  
                     54 Esarey, History of Indiana, II, 874.
                  
                     55 For a sketch of Pomeroy see Buck, The Agrarian
                            Crusade, 86–87.
                  
                     56
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Sentinel, February 17, 1876.
                  
                     57
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, May 18, 1876.
               
                     of the party in Congress gave to the Specie Resumption Act. The
                    currency plank declared that "so much of the so-called resumption act as fixes the time for
                    the resumption of specie payments should be repealed." It further declared that
                    "after such repeal the currency should remain undisturbed—neither contracted nor
                    expanded." The Republicans in their platform made use of the argument that since the
                    Democrats had opposed the issuance of greenbacks during the Civil War, they must surely he opposed
                    to them in 1876, else their former opposition had been necessarily insincere. The Republicans also
                    employed the greenback issue as a conservative argument, making the discovery that the greenback
                    currency removed the necessity of a return to "the system of local and irresponsible
                    banking which existed under the administration of Buchanan."58 Godlove
                    S. Orth was made the Republican nominee for governor. He had voted for the Specie Resumption Act
                    while a member of Congress. At the time of his nomination, he was the American minister to 
                        Austria
                    .
            On financial questions the Democratic state platform of 1876 was a ramshackle affair, hut
                    preponderantly radical. It pronounced the contraction of the currency a "vicious financial
                    policy," yet a few paragraphs below in the same platform we find a declaration for
                    "our ancient doctrine that gold and silver are the true and safe basis for the currency,
                    and we are in favor of measures and policies that will produce uniformity in value in the coin and
                    paper money of the country without destroying or embarrassing the business interests of the
                    people." But in the same plank the Democrats declared that they would oppose "the
                    contraction of the volume of our paper currency," and favor the adoption of measures
                    "looking to the gradual retirement of the circulation of the national banks and the
                    substitution therefor [of] circulating notes issued by authority of the government." The
                    party further declared that 
                        a natural return to specie payments will be promoted by the increase of national wealth and
                            industries, by the assurance of harmony at home and peace abroad, and by strengthening our
                            public credit under a wise and economical administration of our national affairs. The legal
                            tender notes constitute a safe currency, and one especially valuable to the debtor classes,
                            because of its legal tender quality. We demand 
                        
                           58
                           Ibid., February 23, 1876; Henry, State Platforms of the Two Dominant Parties,
                                52–55.
                     
                             the repeal of the legislation enacted by the Republican
                            party providing for its withdrawal from circulation and the substitution therefor of
                            national bank paper.
                     The idea of the Democrats seems to have been that greenbacks would circulate at par with
                    gold if enough time were allowed to elapse, and that "natural resumption" would
                    not work an undue hardship on the debtor. The last financial plank asserted that 
                        the act of Congress for the resumption of specie payments … was devised in secret
                            caucus for party ends, and forced through the House of Representatives without the allowance
                            of amendment or debate; …. it paralyzes industry, creates distrust of the future,
                            turns the laborer and producer out of employment, is a standing threat upon business men,
                            and should at once be repealed without any condition whatever.59
                  
                     Thus the Democratic party stood for resumption by natural means and for the repeal of the
                    entire Specie Resumption Act. The Republicans had contented themselves with a declaration in favor
                    of the repeal of the clause which fixed a definite time for resumption. The Democrats also came out
                    against the national bank notes, while the Republicans supported them.
            
               
                        Franklin
                     Landers, James D. Williams, and W. S. Holman were the Democratic governorship
                    aspirants. Holman was a member of Congress from the third district, and although he voted against
                    the Specie Resumption Act, he had been up to that time a financial conservative. 
                        Franklin
                     Landers was a member of Congress from the seventh district, being elected in 1874 by
                    virtue of Democratic and Greenback fusion. He was at the time the Greenback nominee for governor. He
                    was a thorough radical, being obsessed with the idea that the bank notes would drive out the
                    greenback currency. In a speech at 
                        Greencastle
                    , he had declared that the land of the farmer was pledged to the payment of the bank
                        notes.60 Williams was a wealthy farmer of 
                        Knox
                     County who had served many years in the General Assembly. At this time he was serving a
                    term in Congress. He was an inflationist. He was extremely homely and his plain ways were calculated
                    to appeal to a community where love of the simple Jacksonian virtues 
                  
                     59
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Sentinel, April 20, 1876; Henry, State Platforms of the Two Dominant Parties, 49–51.
                  
                     60 O. B. Carmichael, "Campaign of 1876 in Indiana,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905–), IX (1913), 276–297.
               
                     still lingered. The name of Voorhees was presented to the
                    convention, but he was not a candidate. Williams was nominated on the second ballot.
            Morton was the choice of the Indiana Republicans for the presidential nomination in 1876. He had been
                    an outstanding radical on the money question until the force of party loyalty had compelled him to
                    support the Specie Resumption Act. Inherently, he was an inflationist, and he must still have felt
                    that a policy of abundant money was the best one for the people of Indiana, most of whom were still
                    farmers. On six ballots the entire thirty votes of Indiana were given to Morton. On the seventh
                    ballot, after the nomination of Morton was seemingly impossible, Indiana cast twenty-five votes for
                    Rutherford B. Hayes and five for Benjamin H. Bristow. Both Hayes and Bristow were exponents of sound
                    money. On the only ballot for vice-president, Indiana gave twenty votes to Stewart L. Woodford of 
                        New York
                    , two for William A. Wheeler, seven for Marshall Jewell, and one for Joseph R. Hawley,
                    all of whom were conservative.61
            
            The Democrats went to 
                        St. Louis
                     pledged to support for the presidential nomination Thomas A. Hendricks, whose position
                    on the money question had been equivocal. He was talking in a vague way about the wisdom of
                    resumption in 1876, and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, exasperated at his vacillation, had declared "that he was
                    considered a ‘hard money’ man in the East and a ‘soft
                    money’ man in the West and that he was trying to cater. to the support of both the
                    eastern and western Democrats."62 But there was nothing equivocal about
                    the views of a majority of Indiana delegates. They were inflationists, and they followed the lead of
                    Voorhees.
            The resolutions committee reported a financial plank which was obviously a compromise. It declared
                        
                        we denounce the financial imbecility and immorality of that [Republican] party, which during
                            eleven years of peace has, made no advance toward resumption, no preparation for resumption,
                            but instead has obstructed resumption by wasting our resources and exhausting all our
                            surplus income, and while annually professing to intend a speedy return to specie payments
                            has annually enacted fresh hindrances 
                        
                           61
                                    Official Proceedings of the Republican National Conventions
                                        … 1868, 1872, 1876, 1880 (
                              Minneapolis, Minnesota
                           , 1903), 304, 307, 320–321, 324, 327,
                                    330.
                        
                           62 Carmichael, "Campaign of 1876 in
                                    Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, IX, 283.
                     
                             thereto. As such hindrance we denounce the resumption
                            clause of the act of 1875 and we here demand its repeal.63
                  
                    
            
            This hybrid declaration pleased neither the conservatives nor the radicals. A minority report offered
                    by members of the resolutions committee from five Eastern states contained the sentiments of the
                    ultra conservatives. It proposed that the clause "we denounce the resumption clause of the
                    act 01 1875, and we here demand its repeal" be stricken out.64 The
                    minority report of the conservatives was defeated.
            The radical minority report was endorsed by members of the resolutions committee from Indiana,
                            
                  Ohio, Tennessee, Pennsylvania, Iowa
               , West 
                  Virginia, Kansas
               , and 
                        Missouri
                    . Voorhees was the Indiana member of the committee whose name was appended to the
                    radical minority report. Thomas Ewing of 
                        Ohio
                     introduced the report, but Voorhees was its chief oratorical reliance. The report
                    proposed the following specific declaration in opposition to the Specie Resumption Act:
                    "The law for the resumption of specie payments on the first of January, 1879, having been
                    enacted by the Republican party without deliberation in Congress or discussion before the people,
                    and being both ineffectual to secure its object and highly injurious to the business of the country
                    ought to be forthwith repealed."65
            
            The fluent Voorhees defended the radical minority report in an eloquent speech. He said: 
                        We can all recall a time when our paper was worth but forty cents on the dollar in gold. It
                            had grown to be worth ninety cents before the law was passed at all. It had appreciated
                            fifty cents on the dollar before your favorite pet idea of forced resumption touched the
                            question in the halls of Congress; it had, sir, by the natural laws of trade and by the laws
                            of God's growth and prosperity returning to the country, appreciated fifty cents on
                            the dollar in the course of eight years. Let us trust that the gap of only about ten or
                            twelve per cent, remaining will be closed up by the same great laws in a very short time in
                            the future.66
                  
                    In other words, Voorhees was expressing the doctrine of natural resumption which had been
                    written into the Democratic state platform—the doctrine that if enough time were allowed
                        
                  
                     63
                            Official Proceedings of the National Democratic Convention …
                            1876 (
                        St. Louis, Missouri
                     , 1876), 95.
                  
                     64
                     Ibid., 99.
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., 100.
                  
                     66
                            Ibid., 106.
               
                     to elapse resumption would take place through the operation of
                    natural forces.
            Voorhees made a frankly sectional appeal, an appeal directed toward the economic interests of the
                    West. With gusto he exclaimed: 
                        I stand here surrounded by ten States who have a right to be heard on this
                            subject—West 
                        Virginia, Ohio
                     , my own gallant Democratic State of
                            Indiana, 
                                Missouri
                            , on whose bosom we are holding this convention; 
                                Tennessee
                            , that contains the Hermitage and the ashes of Jackson and Polk; 
                                Iowa
                             and 
                                Kansas
                            —are they not to be considered? do they amount to
                            nothing? I will say, with all respect to the gentleman from 
                                New York
                             who has just sat down [Mr. Dorsheimer], that we have followed the lead of 
                                New York
                             for twelve long years, and each time to disaster, and I, for one, assert the
                            West, the mighty West, with its teeming population. I assert the power of the 
                                Mississippi
                             valley, with its mighty interests and its great resources.67
                  
                    
            
            The radical report was lost by a vote of 229 votes for it to 505 against it. Indiana,
                            
                  Kansas, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Vermont
               , and West 
                        Virginia
                     voted solidly for its adoption; a large block of delegates from 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     did likewise. Because they failed to carry their financial plank the entire Indiana
                    delegation voted against the adoption of the whole platform. The only state to follow the lead of
                    Indiana in carrying opposition to such an extreme was West 
                        Virginia
                    .68
            
            On the two ballots taken to determine the presidential nomination, Indiana voted for Hendricks.
                    Strangely enough, in the light of his equivocal position on the money question, the support of
                    Hendricks came from Western states like IIlinois, 
                  Colorado,
                            Kansas
               , and 
                        Missouri
                    , and one Southern state, 
                        Tennessee
                    . The reputation that the Indiana Democracy had for radicalism probably helped Hendricks
                    in the West and South. The nominee of the convention was Samuel J. Tilden, who was an avowed
                    believer in sound money. Hendricks was nominated for vice-president, and the Indiana delegation,
                    which declared he was not a candidate for second place, acquiesced in his selection.69
            
            
               
                  67
                  Ibid., 107.
               
                  68
                        Ibid., 115–117. There is an error in the total votes given on page
                        115. The ayes total 229 and. the noes 505. There must also be an error in the votes announced by
                        the secretary.
               
                  69
                        Official Proceedings of the National Democratic Convention … 1876,
                        pp. 144, 146, 154–160.
            
            
            Economic discontent was still prevalent in 1876. Corn stood at thirty-nine cents in 1875 and at
                    thirty-four cents in 1876. Wheat was ninety-seven cents in 1875 and $1.02 in 1876.70 The financial policy of the administration was extremely unpopular. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, chief of the Republican newspapers, had denounced the Resumption Act in a
                    ringing editorial in its edition of January 1, 1876.71 The Republicans had
                    demanded repeal of the clause setting a definite time for resumption, and the Democrats had
                    denounced the entire act. Radicalism was in the air. The Greenback leaders were enthusiastic. A
                    group of workmen held a convention on February 24, 1876, and organized a
                    "working-men's party."72 The Socialists held an
                    enthusiastic convention on May 2 at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .73 A delegate to the Greenback State Convention had declared
                    frankly that "what the children needed was to be taught the greenback) theory of money and
                    not educational thought and. progress."74 The unrest prompted a
                    Republican worker "to write to Hayes ‘a bloody-shirt campaign, with money, and
                    Indiana is safe; a financial campaign and no money and we are beaten.’ "75
            
            Many Republicans were not enthusiastic about the hard-money views of Hayes, and the Democrats were
                    restless under the 
                        New York
                     domination, and only party loyalty kept some of them in line for Tilden.76
            
            The Republicans sought to turn the campaign into a bloody-shirt crusade. Senator Morton delivered a
                    typical bloody-shirt address on July 11 before a large audience at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Academy of Music. The speeches of George W. Julian stressed the political corruption of
                    the Grant administration, as did those of Joseph Pultizer, whom the Democrats sent into Indiana.
                    William H. English made a Democratic 
                  
                     70
                            Report of the Commissioner of Agriculture for the Year 1875 (
                                Washington
                            , 1876), 96; Report of the Commissioner of Agriculture for the Year
                                1876 (
                                Washington
                            , 1877), 96.
                  
                     71
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, January 1, 1876.
                  
                     72
                            Ibid., February 25, 1876.
                  
                     73
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Sentinel, May 2, 1876.
                  
                     74 Carmichael, "Campaign of 1876 in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, IX, 288.
                  
                     75 Buck, The Agrarian Crusade, 85,
                  
                     76 Ninth District Democrats at a meeting at 
                                Frankfort
                             on July 11 repudiated the financial plank of the 
                                St. Louis
                             convention. 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, July 12, 1876.
               
                     speech in 
                        Indianapolis
                     which angered the radical Democrats. He preached sound money.77
            
            The chief issues were financial. Williams opened his campaign on August 16 at 
                        Salem
                    . In his own untutored way he had this to say about the money question: 
                        I was in favor of the repeal of the resumption act, take up bonds as fast as possible and
                            issue greenbacks instead. … The greenback currency is good enough for practical
                            purposes; it draws no interest, twenty millions could be saved a year, and in forty years
                            the debt could be paid by this means alone and without inflation. The government can redeem
                            as fast as the banks can. … The greenbacks are the best currency we can get, and
                            on which you pay no interest. … It was said that the Democrats were not sincere
                            in their desire for the repeal of the resumption act. Our actions [in Congress] proved that
                            we were.
                    Williams also criticized the demonetization of the silver dollar and declared that the
                    "bill by which it [silver] was demonetized was passed during the last two days of the
                    session without ever being read."78 Williams was accompanied on his
                    tour of the state by Voorhees, who always stressed the money question.
            Orth withdrew as the Republican candidate on August 2. He was unpopular because he had voted for the
                    Specie Resumption Act. His wet proclivities were resented by the many temperance reformers in the
                    Republican party. The Democrats had been circulating an ugly allegation to the effect that Orth
                    personally had profited in the Venezuela bond irregularity which had occurred when he was the
                    American minister to that country, and in which many Americans had lost money. The state committee
                    substituted Benjamin Harrison as the Republican candidate. Harrison came out boldly against fiat
                    money. He was reserved and did not come into intimate contact with the plain people as Williams did.
                    The Democrats dubbed him "the kid glove candidate." The manner of his selection
                    offended the wets. The Germans resented the humiliation inflicted on one of their most
                    representative citizens. All of these factors contributed to the Republican defeat.
            When 
                        Franklin
                     Landers failed to secure the Democratic nomination for governor, he withdrew as the
                    Greenback candidate, 
                  
                     77 Trissal, Public Men of Indiana, I, 90.
                  
                     78
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Sentinel, August 17, 1876.
               
                     and Anson Wolcott was advanced to first place on the Greenback
                    ticket. Wolcott mysteriously withdrew as a candidate on October 4 intimating that his action was
                    taken in the interests of the Republican ticket. This unexpected withdrawal threw the Greenbackers
                    into confusion for a time, but they substituted Henry W. Harrington on the ticket, and seemed not to
                    have been injured by Wolcott's unexplained conduct. If the incident had any influence at
                    all, it reacted against the Republicans.
            For governor, Williams had a total vote of 213,219 of the aggregate vote, Harrison had 208,080, and
                    Harrington polled 12,710 votes. The vote for Tilden for president was 213,526, for Hayes 208,011,
                    for Cooper 9,533. The Greenback vote had fallen about five thousand, but radicalism won a victory in
                    the Democratic triumph.79
            
            Nine of the thirteen congressional districts, however, w(ere carried by the Republicans. The
                    Democrats carried only the first, second, third, arid twelfth districts. The conservatives regained
                    the seventh district, where James Buchanan was the Greenback candidate. He polled only 1,595 votes.
                    The Greenback vote for governor amounted to ten per cent or more in five counties.80 The Greenbackers continued to draw more heavily from the Republicans. The Republicans
                    carried a majority of the General Assembly. On joint ballot they had seventy-seven, the Democrats
                    had seventy-one, and the Greenbackers one, a holdover in the Senate.81
            
            The General Assembly of 1877 contained many radical members. As high as seven different bills which
                    sought to stay execution or regulate the collection of a mortgage debt were introduced in the course
                    of the session.82 A bill granting liens in favor of agricultural, horticultural,
                    and mechanical associations was passled.83 A bill supported by the Grange, 
                  
                     79
                     Report of the Secretary of State of the State of
                                Indiana, for the Year ending October 31, 1879, pp. 113–114; The Tribune Almanac and Political Register for 1877, pp. 74–75. Since
                            the figures for the total number of votes for governor vary, those reported in the former
                            reference were used for this article.
                  
                     80
                            The Tribune Almanac and Political Register for 1877, pp. 74–76.
                            The counties were 
                        Boone, Brown, Fountain
                     , 
                                Vigo
                            , and 
                                Warren
                            .
                  
                     81
                            The Tribune Almanac und Political Register for 1877, p. 75.
                  
                     82
                            Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1877, pp. 105, 131,
                            236, 17, 85, 137, 139, 167, 265; Journal of the Senate of Indiana, 1877,
                            pp. 932–986.
                  
                     83
                            Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1877, pp.
                            607–608; Journal of the Senate of Indiana, 1877, p. 704.
               
                     which would have permitted agricultural societies to borrow
                    money on special terms, was indefinitely postponed.84 A joint resolution
                    instructing Indiana senators and requesting Indiana representatives to vote against all bills which
                    loaned the credit of the 
                        United States
                     to railroads,85 and another which instructed and requested that
                    they vote for the repeal of the National Bankrupt Law,86 were carried by both
                    houses. A joint resolution instructing Indiana senators and requesting Indiana representatives in,
                    Congress "to use all lawful means to procure the speedy enactment of a law of Congress
                    restoring the legal tender quality of the silver dollar of the coinage act of 1792, and making the
                    same a legal tender for the payment of all debts, public and private, except as otherwise provided
                    by law" passed by both houses and was forwarded to 
                        Washington
                    .87
            
            The illustratious Morton died in 1878 and Governor Williams appointed Daniel Voorhees, ardent
                    inflationist, to take the place in the Senate thus made vacant.
            In the seventies a majority of the people in Indiana were inflationists, and did not care how the
                    medium of exchange was expanded just so that it was expanded. When the greenback issue offered an
                    opportunity for inflation, the people supported greenbacks, and when the silver agitation offered an
                    opportunity for expansion, the people supported silver.
            Richard "Dick" Bland of 
                        Missouri
                     in the fall of 1877 introduced in the House a bill which provided for the free and
                    unlimited coinage of silver dollars weighing 412.5 grains at the ratio with gold of 15.62 to 1, thus
                    everrating the mint value of silver. Every member of the Indiana delegation in the House who cast a
                    ballot on the measure voted for the Bland Bill. Three Democrats united with the seven Republicans in
                    support of the bill. Thomas R. Cobb, the Democratic representative of the second district; John
                    Hanna, the Republican representative of the seventh district; and James L. Evans, Republican
                    representative of the eleventh district, did not vote.88
            
            
               
                  84
                        Journal of the Senate of Indiana, 1877, pp. 338, 685.
               
                  85
                  IBID
                  ., 121, 187, 329, 375.
               
                  86
                        Ibid., 122, 182, 371, 404, 790, 795, 797, 798, 803.
               
                  87
                        Ibid., 208, 212, 221, 322, 476, 548; Journal of the House of
                            Representatives of Indiana, 1877, pp. 101, 250, 686, 722, 723, 725, 764.
               
                  88
                        Congressional Record, 45 Cong., 1 Sess., 241; Journal of the
                            House of Representatives of the 
                                United States
                            
                  , 45 Cong., 1 Sess., 143–144 (serial no. 1772).
            
            
            When the bill reached the Senate, William B. Allison of 
                        Iowa
                     moved to amend it by striking out the free and unlimited feature and substituting
                    restriction. The Secretary of the Treasury was ordered to buy each month for coinage into silver
                    dollars, exclusive of coinage already issued, from two to four million dollars of silver, provided
                    the amount invested in silver at any time was not more than five million dollars. Voorhees voted
                    against the Allison amendment, thereby ranging himself with the forces of free and unlimited silver
                    coinage. McDonald voted for the restrictive amendment of Allison. Both Voorhees and McDonald voted
                    for the amended bill when it came up for final reading.89
            
            When the bill was returned lo the House for that body's verdict on the Senate amendments,
                    every member of the Indiana delegation cast a ballot.90 Benoni S. Fuller and
                    Cobb, Democratic representatives of the first and second districts re. spectively, and William H.
                    Calkins, Republican representative of the tenth district, voted against the amended bill. They were
                    extreme silverites and resented the mutilation of the original bill. Every other Indiana member
                    voted for the bill, believing that it represented the maximum concessions of a Republican Senate to
                    the cause of silver.
            Then Hayes vetoed the bill. Thus challenged by the conservatives, the three Indiana radicals who had
                    voted against the amended bill because they thought it too conservative, joined their Indiana
                    colleagues in voting to pass the bill over the executive veto. Every member of the Indiana
                    delegation in the House voted to override the veto. In the Senate both McDonald and Voorhees voted
                    against the President.91 The action of the Indiana delegation was thus
                    unanimous. Most of the delegation would rather have had the original Bland Bill, but if they could
                    not secure that, they would take what they could get, and the action of Hayes in returning the bill
                    on the 
                  
                     89
                            Congressional Record, 45 Cong., 2 Sess., 1076, 1112; Journal
                                of the Senate of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 45 Cong., 2 Sess., 202, 209 (serial no. 1779).
                  
                     90
                            Congressional Record, 45 Cong., 2 Sess., 1283–1285; Journal of the House of Representatives of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 45 Cong., 2 Sess., 485–489 (serial no. 1792).
                  
                     91
                            Congressional Record, 45 Cong., 2 Sess., 1419–1420,
                            1409–1411; Journal of the House of Representatives of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 45 Cong., 2 Sess., 549–550; Journal of the
                                Senate of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 45 Cong., 2 Sess., 252.
               
                     grounds that it was not conservative enough, when to most of
                    them it seemed too conservative, engendered resentment.
            The year of 1878 was a year of intense depression. Corn fell as low as twenty-seven cents, the lowest
                    it ever fell in the 1870's and 1880's, and wheat dropped to eighty-one cents. Rye
                    went down to fifty-one cents and oats to twenty cents. The average price received for hay in Indiana
                    was $6.06 a ton. Hogs sold at an average of $2.97.92
            
            While the Republican stat:, platform of 1878 was somewhat equivocal, it was on the whole a
                    conservative declaration. It declared for "no abandonment or appreciation of the greenback
                    currency," yet at the same time it stood for "a sound and stable currency of gold,
                    silver, and paper of the same value" and came out in "opposition to repudiation in
                    all its forms," and in favor of "the honor and credit of the nation,"
                    which was "to be maintained in every contingency." Some liberal concessions
                    contained in the platform were a promise to work for "national legislation authorizing the
                    receipt of greenbacks at par in payment of customs and in purchase of government bonds,"
                    and a pledge to sponsor a law providing for "an increased exemption of property from
                        execution."93 The important thing to note is that by 1878 the
                    Republican party of Indiana had accepted without a single reservation every line of the Specie
                    Resumption Act.
            The confession of faith expressed in the Democratic platform of 1878 was as radical as any Greenback
                    declaration. That document contained the following radical demands: "The immediate and
                    unconditional repeal of the resumption, act"; the making of "the 
                        United States
                     notes, commonly called greenbacks, a full legal tender in payment of all debts, public
                    and private, except such obligations only as are by the terms of the original contracts under which
                    they were issued, expressly payable in coin"; "the restoration of the silver
                    dollar of 412 1/2 grains to the coin of the country, with full legal tender quality in the payment
                    of all debts, both public and private; and that the coinage thereof should be unlimited, and upon
                    the same terms and conditions as may be provided for the coinage of gold." The platform
                    also demanded that 
                  
                     92
                            Report of the Commissioner of Agriculture for the Year 1878 (
                                Washington
                            , 1879), 263, 274.
                  
                     93
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, June 6, 1878; Henry, State
                                Platforms of the Two Dominant Parties, 58–59.
               
                     National Bank notes should be retired and in lieu thereof the
                    government should issue an equal amount of treasury notes with full legal tender quality. Other
                    planks favored such legislation as should fix the legal rate of interest at not exceeding six
                    percentum per annum and the repeal of the national bankrupt act. The platform also contained an
                    assertion that the right to issue paper money as well as coin is the exclusive prerogative of the
                    government, and that such money should be issued in such amounts as the sound business interests of
                    the country should from time to time require.94
            
            The Democrats won a great victory in 1878, their candidate for Secretary of State polling 194,770
                    votes to 180,657 for the Republican candidate. The Greenback candidate for Secretary of State polled
                    39,415, a tremendous vote when one considers that the Democratic party was definitely radical on the
                    money question in 1878. The combined majority of the two inflation parties over the conservative
                    Republican party was 53,528. The Republican party polled 43.50 per cent of the votes while the
                    inflation parties polled 56.50 per cent. The Greenback party ran second in four counties.95
            
            This election constitutes radicalism's greatest victory, and 1878 represents the high water
                    mark of inflation sentiment. This is true notwithstanding the radicalism of both parties in 1868. In
                    that year the issue was as yet undefined, few understood it, and the question of reconstruction
                    over-shadowed finance as a political issue.
            In the congressional contests each of the major parties won six districts. In the seventh district
                    Gilbert De La Matyr, a Greenbacker, was elected to Congress by virtue of a coalition of his party
                    with the Democrats. He had 18,720 votes to 17,881 for Hanna, his Republican opponent.96 De La Matyr was a Methodist minister. He had been presiding elder for the district for
                    one year, and his war record was irreproachable. He had been chaplain of the Eighth 
                        New York
                     Heavy Artillery, a regiment he had helped recruit, and to many 
                  
                     94
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Sentinel, June 20, 1878; Henry, State Platforms of the Two Dominant Parties, 56–57.
                  
                     95 The counties were Jackson, Newton, Vigo, and Wells. Annual Report of the Secretary of State of the State of Indiana, for the Year ending
                                October 31, 1878, pp. 115–119; The Tribune Almanac and
                                Political Register for 1879, p. 66.
                  
                     96
                            Annual Report of the Secretary of State of the State of Indiana, for
                                … 1878, pp. 115–119; The Tribune Almanac and
                                Political Register for 1819, pp. 66–67.
               
                     these qualifications overcame the stigma of radicalism. In
                    fact, De La Matyr was quite "respectable" when compared with the dashing Buchanan.
                    As a result of his election to Congress, De La Matyr became prominent nationally in the Greenback
                    party.
            In the twelfth district, the Republicans endorsed the Democratic candidate Walpole G. Colerick, in
                    order to defeat John Studebaker, the Greenback candidate. Colerick had 17,067 votes and Studebaker
                    had 9,712. It was necessary to pick a radical to beat a radical. The Greenback vote in the second
                    district was 2,103; in the sixth it was 2,043; in the eighth it was 4,929; in the ninth it was
                    4,571; in the tenth it was 5,252; in the eleventh it was 4,266; and in the thirteenth it was
                        3,462.97
            
            In the General Assembly the Democrats had seventy-nine on the joint ballot, the Republicans had
                    sixty-two, the Greenbackers seven, Independent Republicans one, and the Independent Democrats one.
                    The Democrats elected fifty-five members to the House, the Republicans thirty-nine, the Greenbackers
                    five, and the Independent Democrats one. Greenback strength was for the most part in the north and
                        west.98
            
            The General Assembly which met in the winter of 1879 was a thoroughly radical body. Nine separate
                    bills which sought to fix the legal rate of interest; six distinct bills which sought in one way or
                    another to stay the execution of a judgment rendered in cases of debt; and two different bills
                    declaring "usurious, illegal and void" all agreements to pay 
                  
                     97
                            Ibid. The twelfth district then comprised the counties of 
                                Adams
                            , 
                                Allen
                            , 
                        Blackford, Huntington
                     , 
                                Jay
                            , 
                                Wells
                            , and 
                                Whitley
                            .
                  
                     98
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Sentinel, January 10, 1879; Annual Report of the Secretary of State of the State of Indiana … 1878,
                            pp. 115–119; The Tribune Almanac and Political Register for
                            1879, pp. 66–67. The figures for the legislature given in the Almanac vary slightly from those given in the Sentinel. 
                                Parke
                             and 
                        Vermillion; Benton, Jasper
                     , 
                                Newton
                            , and 
                                White
                             were the senatorial districts which sent Greenbackers to the Senate. 
                                Montgomery
                             and Parke; Morgan; 
                                Hamilton
                             and 
                        Tipton; Putnam
                      and 
                                Hendricks
                            ; 
                                Ohio
                             and 
                                Switzerland
                             were the House districts which elected Greenbackers. The following counties,
                            normally Republican, cast a vote of ten per cent or more for the Greenback ticket:
                                    
                        Benton, Boone, Hamilton
                     , Henry, 
                                Jasper
                            , 
                                LaGrange
                            , 
                                Newton
                            , 
                                Parke
                            , 
                                Porter
                            , 
                        Steuben, Switzerland, Vermillion, Warren
                     , and White. The following counties,
                            normally Democratic, cast a vote of ten per cent or more for the Greenback ticket: Adams, 
                                Blackford
                            , 
                                Cass
                            , 
                                Clarke
                            , 
                        Clay, DeKalb
                     , 
                                Floyd
                            , 
                                Fountain
                            , 
                                Johnson
                            , 
                                Marshall
                            , 
                                Owen
                            , 
                        Pike, Pulaski
                     , 
                                Starke
                            , 
                                Sullivan
                            , 
                                Vigo
                            , 
                                Wells
                            , and 
                                Whitley
                            .
               
                     attorneys fees in any written evidence of indebtedness were
                    introduced in the House within a week after convening.99 Bills to tax telegraph
                    companies, to tax foreign corporations doing business in Indiana, and to regulate the sale of
                    oleo-margerine were introduced within the same space of time.100 In his biennial
                    message Governor Williams congratulated the General Assembly on the joint resolution passed during
                    the session of 1877 which had requested the Indiana delegation in Congress to vote for the
                    remonetization of silver. Governor Williams declared that this resolution had aided materially in
                    the fight to secure passage of the Bland-Allison Act.101
            
            In the House a conservative member from 
                        Wabash
                     introduced the following resolution: 
                        
                     Resolved That we congratulate the country on the successful accomplishment
                            of specie resumption; that the best interest of the people of the 
                                United States
                             demand that specie payment shall be maintained, and that we discountenance all
                            action that would in any way operate against the successful maintenance of such specie
                            payments.
                    The resolution mustered only thirty-five votes in its favor.102
            
            A different fate was in store for the radical resolutions. Most of them were passed by comfortable
                    majorities. One instructing Indiana senators and requesting Indiana representatives to vote for the
                    unconditional repeal of the Specie Resumption Act was carried by a vote of fifty to forty. Another
                    instructing and requesting them respectively to vote for the repeal of the act exempting bonds from
                    taxation was adopted by a vote of thirty-seven to thirty-four. Still another which instructed
                    senators and requested representatives to vote for the abolition of all bank issues was carried by
                    the overwhelming vote of fifty-nine to thirty-two. This was aimed at the national bank notes.
            Other joint resolutions which were passed by the House were: instructions to vote for the repeal of
                    the act exempting greenbacks from taxation, carried by a vote of seventy-six to twelve; instructions
                    to vote for the unlimited coinage of silver, passed by the tremendous vote of eighty-five to five;
                    and instructions to vote for the issuing by the general government of full legal tender money,
                    receivable for all 
                  
                            99
                            Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1879, passim
                        
                  
                     100
                            Ibid., 73, 76.
                  
                     101
                            Ibid., 31.
                  
                     102
                            Ibid., 117–118.
               
                     dues, public and private, in amount sufficient to meet the
                    wants of trade, or at least thirty dollars per capita, adopted by a vote of fifty to forty.103
            
            A particularly radical resolution containing instructions to senators in Congress and a request to
                    Indiana representatives to vote for a law to prohibit the further issuing of interest-bearing
                    government bonds was lost by the very narrow margin of forty-three to forty-five. Another very
                    radical resolution which instructed and requested Indiana senators and representatives respectively
                    to vote for a federal law limiting the rate of interest to not over six per cent was lost by a vote
                    of twenty-seven to sixty-three. Another joint resolution adopted by the House instructed and
                    requested respectively that senators and representatives vote for a law reducing the salaries of
                    federal officials by one-half since "the present policy of the government has rendered the
                    price of labor and all kinds of farm products, as well as real estate, to about one-half its value
                    ten years ago."104 It is not difficult to see that the lower house of
                    the Indiana General Assembly of 1879 was radical and agrarian. These resolutions were not acted on
                    in the Senate.
            The legislature of 1879 sent Voorhees to the Senate for the full term of six years beginning March 4,
                    1879. Voorhees received eighty-three votes to sixty for the conservative Benjamin Harrison. James
                    Buchanan was the Greenback candidate, but he received the support of only three of the Greenback
                        legislators.105 The remainder voted for Voorhees. In the short time Voorhees
                    had been a member of the Senate, he had become one of the outstanding inflationists of that body,
                    and his election to the full term may be considered a distinct gain for the forces of cheap money in
                    national politics.
            The decline from the radical peak of 1878 was swift and decisive. A severe crop shortage occurred in
                    Europe in 1879, and the huge surplus produced in this country that year was sent to Europe to supply
                    the deficiency. We sold more than we bought. Gold and silver entered the country in abundance.
                    Specie resumption took place with lease, for it was not difficult to maintain a gold reserve when
                    the gold 
                  
                     103
                            Ibid., 131–135.
                  
                     104
                            Ibid., 135–137.
                  
                     105
                            Ibid., 182–183.
               
                     supply of the country was large, and when business confidence
                    was so buoyant.
            Prosperity returned to the farmer. Corn rose to thirty-four cents in 1879; wheat to $1.17;
                    rye to seventy-one cents; oats to twenty-,eight cents; and hay to $9.84 a ton. By the
                    close of 1880 corn went to sixty cents; wheat to $1.27; rye to ninety-three cents; oats
                    to forty-two cents; barley to $1.05; buckwheat to ninety-nine cents; potatoes to
                    $1.06; and hay to $12.20.106 Returning prosperity
                    reflected itself in politics by a swing of the pendulum to conservatism.
            The Indiana Republicans in 1880 generally supported Blaine for the presidential nomination. Elaine
                    had always been an enemy of fiat money and was at that time the most brilliant protagonist of the
                    bourgeois philosophy of government. On the thirty-fourth ballot, twenty of the thirty Republican
                    delegates to the national convention voted for Blaine. The other ten votes were divided among John
                    Sherman, Elihu B. Washburrie, and Uslysses S. Grant, all of whom were conservative. On the
                    thirty-fifth ballot, twenty-seven of the Indiana delegates voted for James A. Garfield, who was also
                    conservative on the money question. For vice-president the Indiana delegates split their votes
                    principally between Washburne, Chester A. Arthur, and Marshall Jewell, all conservatives.107
            
            The Republican state platform of 1880 contained no specific mention of national issues; it merely
                    reaffirmed in a blanket endorsement the principles enunciated by the national platform adopted at 
                        Chicago
                    . This latter platform took pride in the financial achievement of the Republican party,
                    which, it claimed, had raised paper money to the value of gold and caused government bonds to go to
                    a premium.108 Albert G. Porter, a conservative, was made the nominee for
                    governor.
            The Democratic national platform of 1880 contained a plank declaring for "honest money,
                    consisting of gold and silver, and paper convertible into coin on demand," and to this the
                    Indiana Democrats made no protest. There was no 
                  
                     106
                            Report of the Commissioner of Agriculture for the Year 1879 (
                                Washington
                            , 1880), 133; Report of the Commissioner of Agriculture for the
                                Years 1881–1882 (
                                Washington
                            , 1883), 602.
                  
                     107
                            Official Proceedings of the Republican National Conventions …
                            1880, pp. 567–628, 644.
                  
                     108
                            Ibid., 532; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, June 18, 1880; Henry, State
                                Platforms of the Two Dominant Parties, 62.
               
                     renewal of the struggle which had occurred in the convention of
                    1876. Voorhees placed Hendricks before the convention as Indiana's choice for the
                    presidency. On this occasion Voorhees lost much of his accustomed enthusiasm and ardor, and the
                    reason therefore is not difficult to divine. Aside from the thirty Indiana votes Hendricks received
                    only sporadic support.109
            
            For vice-president the convention nominated William H. English, a conservative 
                        Indianapolis
                     banker. English had been a War Democrat, and a consistent exponent of sound money. He
                    was disliked by a large number of Indiana Democrats—many of the conservatives thought his
                    conduct during the war tainted with Republicanism, while to the economic radicals he was a Bourbon
                    of the Bourbons. The Indiana delegation acquiesced in his nomination when it was apparent that he
                    was the choice of a large section of the national Democracy.110 When an English
                    supporter wired Hendricks for an endorsement of his candidate the former governor sent this laconic
                    and tepid reply: "English is acceptable to Indiana"—another
                    illustration of the fact that brevity sometimes speaks volumes. During the course of the campaign,
                    an 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspaper. published a list of mortgages held by banker English and the list filled two
                    whole newspaper pages—not a pleasing spectacle to the debtor.111
            
            During the course of the Democratic National Convention a considerable movement to make Joseph E.
                    McDonald the Democratic candidate developed in delegations outside of Indiana. An attempt to procure
                    from Hendricks a release of Indiana delegates proved futile, and so the chances of McDonald for the
                    nomination came to naught.112 It is apparent by this time that the conservatives
                    were having their innings in 1880.
            The Democratic State Convention of this year adopted a more conservative platform. It acquiesced in
                    specie resumption, declaring that 
                        the coin and paper money of the country should be of uniform value, and readily convertible,
                            and should have as great purchasing power 
                        
                           109
                                    Official Proceedings of the National Democratic Convention …
                                        1880 (
                              Dayton, Ohio
                           , 1882), 182,
                                    76–78, 99.
                        
                           110 Ibid., 131–137.
                        
                           111
                                    
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , Indiana, The People, September 18, 1880; Stoll, History of the Indiana Democracy, 289.
                        
                           112 Ibid., 287–288.
                     
                             as the money of other first-class commercial countries
                            of the world, and the paper money, like the coin, should be furnished by the 
                                United States
                            , and should not be in excess of such quantity as will be, and remain always, at
                            par with coin.
                     Somewhat piqued at the likely political consequences of returning prosperity, the platform
                    petulently observed that "in all this [revived prosperity] we recognize the blessing of God
                    upon our country, and we denounce it as false and blasphemous when partisan leaders claim that this
                    is the work of their hands, and that the people should be thankful to them and not grateful to
                    Heaven for our returning prosperity."113 The convention nominated 
                        Franklin
                     Landers as the Democratic candidate for governor. It was an inauspicious year for a man
                    with radical propensities.
            Returning prosperity was an argument the Democrats could not overcome. The Republican organization
                    spent large sums of money to carry the state. Porter was elected by 231,405 votes to 224,452 for
                    Landers for the office of governor. Richard Gregg, the Greenback candidate, polled 14,881 votes. For
                    president, Garfield polled 232,164 votes or 49.32 per cent of the total votes; Winfield S. Hancock
                    polled 225,522 votes or 47.91 per cent of the total votes. The combined vote of the Democrats and
                    Greenbackers was 6,344 in excess of the Republican vote. The Greenbackers mustered about sixteen
                    thousand votes for nearly every candidate except the gubernatorial candidate, and their aspirant for
                    Superintendent of Public Instruction polled 16,730 votes. In the tenth district a union of
                    Greenbackers and Democrats was defeated by tbe straight Republican ticket. Radicalism had declined,
                    but was by no means crushed.114
            
            The mainstay of Republican strength was, as usual, in the northwest and in the central plain. The
                    Democratic strength was in the south and in the poor counties of the north. The Greenbackers
                    registered a vote of ten per cent or more in six counties.115
            
            In the General Assembly the Republicans had eighty- 
                  
                     113
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Sentinel, June 10, 1880; Henry, State Platforms of the Two Dominant Parties, 60–61.
                  
                     114
                            The Tribune Almanac and Political Register for 1881, pp. 48–49.
                  
                     115
                            Ibid., 43. The counties were 
                        Boone, Fountain
                     , Marshall, 
                                Pulaski
                            , Starke, and Wells. The Democrats were still pretty radical, and their platform
                            still showed hostility to the bank notes. Landers was radical; and Isaac P. Gray, a liberal,
                            was the Democratic choice for the Senate.
               
                     one votes on joint ballot to sixty-two for the Democrats and
                    two for the Greenbackers. Conservative Benjamin Harrison was sent to the Senate to succeed
                    conservative Joseph E. McDonald. The Greenbackers voted for De La Matyr.116
            
            The boom of 1 879–1881 was abortive. The old depression settled down again in 1882. Corn
                    fell to forty-eight cents; wheat to ninety cents; and hay to $9.00 a ton.117 But the old inflation sentiment did not revive vigorously. Radical Democrats of the
                    state evidently felt that the nation at large accepted specie resumption as final. The silver
                    agitation in the nation had not yet recommenced.
            The Democratic platform of 1882 contained no financial planks, but voiced the usual opposition to
                    "sumptuary legislation." The Republican platform incidentally boasted that the
                    party had established "a currency equal to any in the world, based upon the convertibility
                    of greenbacks, and the national bank notes into gold and silver at the option of the
                        holders."118
            
            On the basis of the vote cast for Secretary of State the Democrats polled 49.68 per cent of the
                    votes; the Republicans 47.28 per cent; and the Greenbackers 3.04 per cent. The Greenback vote for
                    Secretary of State was 13,520 votes. In some localities the Democrats were more radical than their.
                    platform and the Democratic victory together with the fairly large Greenback vote are evidence of
                    continued dissent.
            The Democrats had eighty-six votes on joint ballot in the General Assembly; the Republicans had
                    sixty-three; and the Greenbackers had none. The Republicans carried only Pour congressional
                    districts—the sixth, seventh, eleventh, and thirteenth. In the thirteenth district
                    Benjamin Shively, later to become a prominent leader of the Indiana Democracy and a 
                        United States
                     Senator, was the Greenback candidate for Congress. He polled 1,943 votes. In the fifth
                    district the Republicans endorsed the Democratic candidate in order to defeat Samuel Wallingford,
                    the Greenback candidate, who 
                  
                     116
                            Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana, 1881, pp.
                            209–221. Gray was the Democratic caucus nominee.
                  
                     117
                     Report of the Commissioner of Agriculture for the Year
                                1883 (
                                Washington
                            , 1884), 260.
                  
                     118
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Sentinel, August 13, 1882; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, August 10, 1882; Henry, State Platforms of the Two Dominant Parties, 63–66.
               
                     polled 13,298 votes. The Greenbackers rolled up a vote of ten
                    per cent or more in four counties.119
            
            The year 1884 was one of unusual depression. Corn sold at forty-one cents and the average price
                    received for wheat in Indiana was ninety-five cents. Potatoes sold for thirty-three cents a
                        bushel.120 But notwithstanding the acute depression inflation did not
                    revive; the Greenback question was conceded to be settled and the later and intense phases of the
                    silver agitation had not yet begun. The campaign turned on other issues. Neither the Republican nor
                    Democratic state platform contained any mention of the national bank notes, silver or greenbacks.121 William Calkins was the Republican candidate for governor, and Isaac P. Gray
                    was the Democratic candidate. Both had been liberal on the money question.
            Indiana delegates to the Republican convention of 1884 divided their support principally among
                    Blaine, Arthur, and Sherman all of whom were conservative. The Republican national platform of that
                    year contained a plank which amounted to a declaration in favor of bimetallism by international
                        agreement.122
            
            The Democratic platform of 1884 again contained an "honest money" plank, almost
                    identical with the plank of 1880.123 But the volatile General Benjamin F. Butler
                    of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , at that very time the Anti-Monopolist candidate for President, introduced a set of
                    radical resolutions, one of which read that "the issue of legal tender note …
                    has become the fixed currency of the 
                        United States
                    , equal lo coined gold and silver; and neither policy nor duty calls for any meddling
                    with it."124 Indiana cast eight votes for the 
                  
                     119
                            Annual Report of the Secretary of State of the State of Indiana, for the Year
                                ending October 31, 1883, pp. 123–129; The Tribune Almanac
                                and Political Register for 1883, pp. 52–53. The counties were 
                                Boone
                            , Marshall, 
                                Spencer
                            , and Wells.
                  
                     120
                            Report of the Commissioner of Agriculture for the Year 188; (
                                Washington
                            , 1885), 431.
                  
                     121
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Sentinel, June 26, 1884; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, June 20, 1884; Henry, State
                                Platforms of the Two Dominant Parties, 67–72.
                  
                     122
                            Official Proceedings of the Republican National Convention …
                            1884 (
                        Minneapolis, Minnesota
                     , 1903), 141–168, 92.
                  
                     123
                            Official Proceedings of the National Democratic Convention …
                            1884 (
                                New York
                            , n.d.), 199.
                  
                     124
                            Ibid., 206. "Meddling" was construed as specie
                            resumption. The doctrine of natural resumption was here expressed.
               
                    
                    
                        Butler
                     resolutions, and Voorhees, avid as usual, rose from his seat and declared, "I
                    desire to be recorded especially aye." The resolutions of 
                        Butler
                     were lost, and the erratic general solemnly committed the Democratic party to the
                    keeping of God, since he could no longer support it.125
            
            The Democrats had gone to 
                        Chicago
                     pledged to Joseph E. McDonald. That McDonald should have been the choice of the Indiana
                    Democracy shows that the party was more conservative than it had been. On the first ballot the
                    Democrats voted for McDonald, on the second for Hendricks, and on the third for Grover 
                        Cleveland
                    —there was no financial heresy expressed in any of these votes. Hendricks
                    became the vice-presidential nominee.126
            
            Gray won over Calkins for governor of Indiana by a vote of 245,140 to 237,745. Hiram Z. Leonard, the
                    Greenback candidate, polled 8,338 votes. For president, 
                        Cleveland
                     had 49.71 per cent of the votes; Blaine 48.17 per cent; and 
                        Butler
                     1.67 per cent. 
                        Butler
                     was the Greenback and Anti-Monopolist candidate. The Greenback vole had fallen off
                    considerably and the Democrats barely carried the state in spite of the depression.127
            
            In the General Assembly the Democrats had ninety-four votes on joint ballot and the Republicans
                    fifty-one. The latter carried only four congressional districts—the sixth, eighth, tenth,
                    and eleventh. The Greenback vote in the congressional districts shrank to below the five hundred
                    mark except in the ninth and eleventh districts. The Democratic victor in the thirteenth district
                    was supported by the Green-backers. In the winter of 1885 Voorhees was returned to the Senate by the
                    overwhelming Democratic majority in the legislature.128 As a Democrat he would
                    have been returned no matter what his views were on money; the financial issue was no longer
                    paramount.
            The depression continued in 1886, and the Democrats declared for a paper currency convertible into
                    coin, "including the volume of 
                        United States
                     notes." The Republicans 
                  
                     125
                            Official Proceedings of the National Democratic Convention …
                            1884, pp. 203–218.
                  
                     126
                            Ibid., 227, 241–247.
                  
                     127
                            The Tribune Almanac and Political Register for 1885, pp. 54–55.
                  
                     128
                            Ibid., 51–55; Journal of the House of
                                Representatives of Indiana, 1885, pp. 206–207. There is a slight
                            variation in the figures between those given in the latter reference and those in the Almanac.
               
                     pointed with pride to the sound-money policy of their party.
                    The latter carried the state by a narrow margin, their candidate for lieutenant-governor polling
                    231,922 votes to 228,598 for the Democratic candidate. The Greenback aspirant polled only 4,646
                    votes or .97 per cent of the total.129
            
            The Republicans carried the first, sixth, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth districts. In
                    the thirteenth Benjamin Shively was the successful Democratic candidate. He received the endorsement
                    of the Greenbackers. In the eleventh district the Greenbackers polled 1,324 votes, and in the sixth
                    they polled 1,105.130
            
            The General Assembly was close. The Democrats had seventy-six on joint ballot and the Republicans
                    seventy-four. The thirty-one Democratic holdovers in the Senate account for the large Democratic
                    vote on joint ballot. There was one Greenbacker elected as a Democrat, and three Greenbackers had
                    been elected on the Republican ticket. These were included in the Republican-Democratic lineup.
                    David Turpie, inflationist, was the Democratic caucus nominee for Senator. Benjamin Harrison,
                    conservative, was the Republican nominee. For many ballots the four Greenbackers voted for Jason H.
                    Allen, and an embarrassing stalemate was created. It was not until the sixteenth ballot that the
                    Greenbacker elected on the Democratic ticket voted for Turpie. His vote was absolutely necessary to
                    give Turpie the necessary majority of one. The three Greenbackers elected on the Republican ticket
                    had voted, strangely enough, for Harrison sooner than the Democratic Greenbacker voted for
                        Turpie.131 As a member of the Senate, Turpie became one of the leading
                    inflationists in national politics.
            The Greenback movement had vanished by 1888, and the money issue seemed moribund. Neither state
                    platform of the major parties contained any mention of the money question. The more hopeful of the
                    Greenbackers went into the Union Labor party, but its candidate for president polled 
                  
                     129
                            Report of the Commissioner of Agriculture for the Year 1886 (
                                Washington
                            , 1887), 390; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Sentinel, August 12, 1886; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, September 3, 1886; Henry, State Platforms of the Two Dominant Parties, 72–79; The
                                Tribune Almanac and Political Register for 1887, pp. 58–59.
                  
                     130
                            The Tribune Almanac and Political Register for 1887, pp. 58–59.
                  
                     131
                            Journal of the Senate, of Indiana, 1887, pp. 420–422; Stoll,
                                History of the Indiana Democracy, 316–317.
               
                     only 2,694 votes in the state. The Republicans carried Indiana
                    by the very narrow margin of 2,348 votes, even though a native son was the national standard
                        bemer.132
            
            Indiana did not respond effectively to the agrarian crusade of the 1890's. When the states
                    beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                     were aflame with agrarian radicalism, Indiana remained relatively untouched. The fact
                    is that by the 1890's Indiana had entered into a more industrial economy, and in politics
                    had come definitely to be allied with the conservative East.
            True, the Democrats again became the inflation party when the issue was revived in the silver
                    agitation of the 1890's. Voorhees remained in the Senate until 1897, and Turpie stayed in
                    the Senate until 1899, and both fought shoulder to shoulder with the forces of free silver. Voorhees
                    remained a strong advocate of fiat money, and on August 22, 1893, while speaking on the repeal of
                    the purchasing clause of the Sherman Law he put his philosophy of money in the following succinct
                    paragraph: 
                        Money is the creature and congress its creator. Gold and its alleged intrinsic value goes for
                            naught as a circulating medium unless the coin bears the stamp of the
                            government—a stamp more powerful than the grasp of the lion's paw or the
                            eagle's claw in bestowing life and activity on a dead and otherwise useless
                            material. The same official stamp on silver, or on paper, at once ennobles them to an
                            equality with gold in purchasing power, no matter how debased, how degraded, or how
                            valueless the silver or the paper may have become as commodities by sinister and unwise
                                legislation.133
                  
                    
            
            In the 
                        Chicago
                     convention of 1896 David Turpie nominated Governor Claude Matthews as the choice of the
                    Indiana Democracy for the presidency, and said on that occasion concerning the position of Matthews
                    on the silver question: "He is not in favor of waiting for. the action of European nations
                    on this subject and perceives no reason for deferring or postponing our legislation for the
                    remonetization of silver, to suit the convenience, assent or agreement of other
                        governments."134 On four straight ballots Indiana voted for
                    Matthews, 
                  
                     132
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Journal, August 9, 1888; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, Daily Sentinel, April 27, 1888; Henry, State Platforms of the Two Dominant Parties, 80–85; The
                                Tribune Almanac and Political Register for 1889, pp. 94–96.
                  
                     133 Harriet C. Voorhees et al., Forty Years of Oratory,
                                Daniel Wolsey Voorhees (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1898), I, 258.
                  
                     134
                            Official Proceedings of the National Democratic Convention …
                            1896 (
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana, 1896), 273.
               
                     and on the fifth cast her thirty votes for Bryan. For
                    vice-president half of the Indiana delegation supported Richard "Dick" Bland on
                    the second ballot. Previously, Indiana had voted for the radical platform reported and against the
                    conservative substitute of the sixteen dissenting members of the resolutions committee led by
                    William F. Vilas and David B. Hill.135
            
            The Republicans had become definitely conservative. As temporary chairman of the National Republican
                    Convention of 1896, Charles 
                        Warren
                     Fairbanks made a strong plea for sound money, and denounced bimetallism without
                    international agreement as monometallism of the cheaper metal. Indiana cast a solid vote of thirty
                    votes for William McKinley on the one ballot required to nominate.136
            
            The Republicans carried Indiana in 1896 by a plurality of nearly eighteen thousands over the
                    Democrats. McKinley had 323,748 votes or 50.77 per cent of the total. Bryan had 306,206 or 48.02 per
                    cent of the vote. The "Middle of the Road" Populists polled 7,644 votes. Even when
                    their vote was added to the Democratic total the Republicans had a majority of nearly ten thousand.
                    The Republicans carried all of the counties with the largest urban populations with the single
                    exception of Allen.137 Inflation was no longer a winning issue in Indiana, even
                    in a period of economic depression and "hard times."
            
               
                  135
                        Ibid., 311–327, 329–356, 241–249.
               
                  136
                        Official Proceedings of the Republican National Convention… 1896 (
                     Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
                  , 1896), 123. The Indiana
                        delegation also cast a solid vote in favor of the gold plank. See Official
                            Proceedings of the Republican National Convention … 1896, p. 96.
               
                  137
                        The Tribune Almanac und Political Register for 1897, pp. 237–238; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, Journal, November 9, 1896.
            
         
         
         
            German Influence in the Churches and Schools of 
                        Dubois County
                    , Indiana
            Elfrieda Lang
            Many of the early German settlers in the West were not affiliated with any particular denomination.
                    To them the material interests were more important than the religious, and they desired first of all
                    to become established in their new home. The Germans were often condemned by the Yankees because
                    they visited parks, took an excursion into the country, or spent their time in participating in
                    sports on Sundays. Even the American steamboats did not want to land at the German settlement of
                    Hermann, 
                        Missouri
                    , and, as a rule, this town was not shown on the maps.1
            
            Groups of devout Germans, however, who were without the guidance of a pastor would sometimes organize
                    a church. They would gather at the home of some farmer and there conduct a service at which a sermon
                    and a prayer would be read by the leader of the group. A number of the early German churches in the
                    West had their origin in this fashion. It was not unusual for a pious individual to persuade his
                    friends in the neighborhood to assist him in organizing a religious group. Religious communities of
                    this nature in various stages of development frequently came to the attention of the itinerant
                    minister. His appearance in such communities would be greeted with joy and every attempt would be
                    made to have him settle in their community.2
            
            Before the first church was built, services were held ill private homes, barns, schoolrooms,
                    courthouses, public halls, or even carpenter shops. In many rural communities several congregations
                    used the same buildings interchangeably. Sometimes while they were building their own church, the
                    congregation would use the church of another denomination. The more religious-minded of the Germans
                    objected to the use of strange churches and especially of barns and courthouses for sacramental
                    services and made every effort to hasten the building of their own church. If a member presented
                        
                  
                     1 Carl E. Schneider, The German Church on the American
                                Frontier (
                        St. Louis, Missouri
                     , 1939), 25, 36; Franz
                            Löher, Geschichte und Zustände der Deutschen in
                            Amerika (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1847), 340.
                  
                     2 Schneider, The German Church on the American
                            Frontier, 38, 220.
               
                     the building site for the church, generally, the church was
                    named in honor of him. Some churches were also known by the name of the first pastor, others were
                    referred to as rooster churches because they had placed the symbol of a rooster on the church
                    steeple as a warning against the sin of Peter.3
            
            In 
                        Dubois County
                    , too, the first German settlers met in private homes and there conducted a service to
                    meet their particular religious needs. In the home of Philip Wagner on April 22, 1840, the first
                    holy Mass at Ferdinand was celebrated on the kitchen table, which had keen moved into the alcove of
                    the living room and prepared for the Mass. A number of simple funerals were also conducted from this
                    room, which had become sacred to Mrs. Wagner. The children were not permitted to be noisy in that
                    room, and even the door had to be closed gently because this room had been used for the celebration
                    of holy Mass, and the dead had been blessed there.4
            
            Dr. Aaron Bailey McCrillus of 
                        Jasper
                    , a Presbyterian placed the second story of his house at the disposal of the Catholics
                    for divine services. Five individuals assembled in 1834 for the first holy Mass which was celebrated
                    in the McCrillus home. The first marriage in 1838 in 
                        Jasper
                     was also solemnized in this home. Since the Reverend Maurice de St. Palais was not able
                    to speak German, McCrillus, having some command of both German and French, served as an interpreter
                    between Father de St. Palais and the German settlers5.
            The German Evangelical Lutheran and Reformed Protestant Congregation, in and about
                            
                  Huntingburg, Dubois
                            County
               ,6 was organized in the Herman Behrens home
                    in the 
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 220–221.
                  
                     4 Personal interviews with old settlers of Ferdinand, May 2, 1944;
                            also Albert Kleber, Ferdinand, Indiana, 1840–1940 (St. Meinrad,
                            Indiana, 1940), 32.
                  
                     5 Albert Kleber, St. Joseph Parish (St. Meinrad,
                            Indiana, 1937), 9–10.
                  
                     6 This congregation in 1860 affiliated with the Deutscher
                                Evangel-ischer Kirchenverein des Westens (Evangelical Church Society of the West),
                            which was organized at Gravois settlement, 
                                Missouri
                            , in 1840 by six ministers ordained in Prussia. It was later known as the German
                            Evangelical Synod of North America, and in 1925 the word German was dropped. Since 1934, it
                            operates under the title of Evangelical and Reformed Church. The State Church of Prussia was
                            represented in the 
                                United States
                             by the German Evangelical Synod of
               
                     summer of 1842 by a number of German immigrants who had settled
                    in the neighborhood of 
                        Huntingburg
                    . An invitation was issued to Reverend 13. W. Lauer7 to conduct
                    services, which were held in private homes during the first year of the new congregation's
                        history.8 The German Methodists began their work in 1843 in 
                        Dubois County
                    .9
            
            In point of time, the non-German congregations were the first to appear in 
                        Dubois County
                    . The Cumberland. Presbyterian church began holding services in 1818 in the area known
                    as the Irish settlement in the northwestern part of the county. The Reverend Jacob B. Shively, a
                    pioneer minister of the Christian church, came to 
                        Dubois County
                     in 1829. Although he came from 
                        Kentucky
                    , he was of German parentage. He organized the Indian Creek Church located one mile from
                    Bretzville on Indian Creek. The first meetings of this congregation were held in cabins and groves.
                    The banks of the Patoka River became the scene for the Baptists in 1838.10
            
            Each denomination began its work in a particular section of the county and this may be attributed to
                    the type of people who settled each area. The earliest settlers were the Scotch-Jrish in the
                    northwestern part of the county and there the Cumberland Presbyterians began their work. The eastern
                    part of the county had the largest percentage of southerners and this was the area occupied by the
                    English Methodists in the north and the Christians in the south. The Germans selected the
                    southwestern and central sections of the county. The German Methodists located in the southwestern
                    part while the Catholics and Lutherans settled in the central part 
                  North America. Schneider, The German Church on the American Frontier,
                            vi, 11, 394; Albert H. Faust, The German Element in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1909), II, 425; H. K. Carroll, The Religious Forces of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (American Church History Series, 13 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1893–1928), I, 156; Seventy-fifth Anniversary of 
                                    Salem
                                 Evangelical Church (
                                Huntingburg
                            , Indiana, 1919), 2; One Hundredth Anniversary, 
                                    Salem
                                 Evangelical and Reformed Church (
                                Huntingburg
                            , Indiana, 1942), 16.
                  
                     7 He was the Lutheran minister at 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ,
                            who wanted to organize a new synod in the West under the name of Die Deutsche
                                Evangelische Synode. Schneider, The German Church on the American
                                Frontier, 90–91n.
                  
                     8
                            Seventy-fifth Anniversary of 
                                    Salem
                                 Evangelical Church, 2; One Hundredth Anniversary, 
                                    Salem
                                 Evangelical and Reformed Church, 10.
                  
                     9 George R. Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                      (
                                Jasper
                            , Indiana, 1910), 215. Since it was not possible to locate the records for this
                            denomination, a detailed account is out of the question.
                  
                     10 Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     , 207–214.
               
                     of the county. The Germans kept an eye on the vegetation, and
                    particularly, the trees when they chose a place to settle.
            There were eighteen churches in 
                        Dubois County
                     in 1860 with a total membership of 4,950 and with property valued at fifty thousand
                    dollars. The Methodists had the largest number of members, the Roman Catholics ranked second, and
                    the Lutherans third.11 No distinction was made in respect to race, but the Roman
                    Catholics and Lutherans were largely Germans, while a considerable number of the Methodists were
                    also Germans.
            The first German churches were usually constructed of logs. The first Roman Catholic church at
                    Ferdinand, 
                        St. Joseph
                    's Catholic Church at 
                        Jasper
                    , as well as 
                        Salem
                     Evangelical and Reformed Church at 
                        Huntingburg
                     were built of logs.12 The log structure of the German Evangelical
                    Lutheran and Reformed Church was erected in 1843 on a lot which had been presented to the
                    congregation by Jacob Geiger, the founder of 
                        Huntingburg
                    . The cost of construction, $99.95, was met by an assessment of two dollars
                    per member.13
            
            The early churches were built by the members who in addition to their time gave building material. A
                    provision was incorporated in some of the church constitutions to guard against inferior work. A
                    member who failed to perform his particular task in the construction of the church was to deposit in
                    the church treasury fifty cents for every day he failed to work. Of course, he was notified on what
                    days he was expected to work and just what his duties would be, and only sickness could exempt him.
                    In some instances, the pastor also co-operated in the building project.14
            
            In most German localities, the church stood in the center of the settlement, and in a hilly area it
                    graced the highest point. This may also be said of most of the churches of German 
                  
                     11
                            Eighth Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1860, Vitai Statistics, IV, 381–384.
                  
                     12 Personal interviews with old settlers in 
                                Dubois County
                            , November 26, 1943, and May 2, 1944.
                  
                     13 The: cost was itemized as follows: hewing, $6.23 1/2;
                            log hauling, $11; church windows, $6.48; keg of nails,
                            $5.50; 3100 clapboards at $2.25 per 1,000, $7.75; church
                            roof, $13; keg of nails, $4.30; building material, $23; 22
                            church benches at 50¢ each, $11; 3 dozen spikes, $1.60; 2
                            hinges, $2; 1 lock, $1.25; 2 latch bolts, $1; labor,
                            $3.50. Minutes of the Congregational Meeting of the German Evangelical Lutheran
                            and Reformed Church, August 13, 1844.
                  
                     14 Schneider, The German Church on the American
                            Frontier, 221–222.
               
                     origin in 
                        Dubois County
                    . The Roman Catholic church at Ferdinand is located on the highest point in that town.
            The churches which began to appear in the fifties and sixties were somewhat more pretentious than the
                    log structures. Inscriptions were placed on the wall behind and over the pulpit such as
                    "Come unto me all ye that labor and arc heavy laden, and I will give you rest."
                    The placing of the altar and the pulpit opposite the entrance was also typically German. The
                    acquisition of an organ came first in importance and then the installation of a bell, which
                    definitely distinguished the German churches from the American meetinghouse. Nothing stirred the
                    German heart more than the sound of bells which pealed forth from the little rural churches located
                    on the hills.15
            
            An idea of the nature and extent of the pastor's duties may be learned from the carefully
                    recorded minutes of the congregation of the German Evangelical Lutheran and Reformed Church at 
                        Huntingburg
                     of January 1, 1844. He was directed to preach in a loud and clear voice in the spirit
                    of Jesus, to administer the Holy sacraments, to be diligent and true in prayer life and the study of
                    the Scriptures, to visit the sick and comfort the bereaved, to make pastoral calls, to visit the
                    school and conduct examinations and see that everything was in order and performed according to the
                    word of God, to have confirmation instruction, to be responsible for law and order in the church,
                    and if he could not conduct the services, he was to provide a capable substitute. These minutes also
                    indicated how the minister was to be elected. After several candidates had preached trial sermons,
                    and the congregation had had an opportunity to discuss their respective merits, an election by
                    ballot was to be held in a congregational meeting. The candidate who received a majority vote,
                    provided he was a member of the Evangelical Association of the West, was invited to serve the
                    congregation. From the minutes of this congregation, it is also apparent that the duties of the
                    janitor were also carefully outlined,16 which is another indication of the
                    German's trait for detail and passion for thoroughness.
            
               
                  15
                        Ibid., 225–228.
               
                  16 Minutes of the German Evangelical Lutheran and Reformed Church of
                        December 26, 1860; December 26, 1861; January 21, 1866; December 26, 1867; December 26,
                    1879.
            
            
            A parishioner was not to be a member of a secret society according to the minutes of July 2, 1876.
                    The minutes of February 27, 1870, directed that a monthly offering should be taken for missions and
                    Christian instruction. The members subscribed to the Augsburg Confession and the Heidelberg
                    Catechism. In the late seventies, a pastor introduced another catechism to which the members
                    objected, and in the congregational meeting of January 12, 1879, made an issue of this matter. In
                    church government many of the German Protestant churches on the frontier vested control in the
                    elders and leaned toward the presbyterial order.
            The German publication of the Evangelical and Reformed Church, Der. Friedensbote,
                    was established in 1850 and even today can be found in some of the old German homes in 
                        Dubois County
                    . This was a monthly publication until 1858 when it began to appear semi-monthly without
                    an increase in the subscription rate of fifty cents a year. It is now a weekly publication and the
                    subscription rate is two dollars per year.17
            
            It is apparent that the early German churches encountered difficulties, especially in their building
                    projects. An incident which happened in connection with the building of the church at Ferdinand is
                    interesting. The letter which follows was dated June 3, 1848, and was written in classic 
                        Pennsylvania
                     German: 
                        Worthy gentlemen trustees of the congregation of Ferdinand in 
                                Dubois County
                             Indiana I herewith have to remind you all who do not want to break the seventh
                            commandment of the church and who last winter cut wood off of my land and broke limestones
                            off of it for the building of the church, or other materials, to which you have no right all
                            of those I shall sue if they do not satisfy me for it the damage no man asked me about it
                            then no man also had no right to it then I shall hand it over to the county surveyor or
                            engineer advocate or attorney of the law he will treat you according to the law of the state
                            of Indiana and if you want to buy it for the church then you can have it for a 100 thaler
                            for 40 acres for I hold the church responsible for the damage to the ground which you ruined
                            for me with that cutting wood and breaking stone you want to steal the materials for the
                            church I really believe that is a great shame Christians you want to be but what are you,
                            Write me an answer immediately how I can let the damages be prosecuted for you You can see
                            from the copy of the deed whether you have been on my 
                        
                           17 Schneider, The German Church on the American
                                        Frontier, 282, 459; 
                              St.
                                        Louis, Missouri
                           , Der Friedensbote, July 2,
                                1944.
                     
                             land or not herewith farewell (I commend you to God)
                            for it is said that you all have spoiled things for me with that I am not satis-fied.18
                  
                    
            
            For several years affairs in Ferdinand among the Catholics had not been operating very smoothly, but
                    in 1849 the disturbances had reached a stage where a large part of the community felt steps should
                    be taken to curb them. A committee of five was appointed to draw up resolutions expressing the
                    sentiments of the people. The disorders, however, could not be controlled mid on Palm Sunday, April
                    1, the following letter from the bishop was read by Father Kundek:
                        It is with sincere regret and deep affliction of heart, that I find myself compelled to leave
                            the congregation of Ferdinand without a Pastor. I soon expected to visit you and to rejoice
                            in the increase of Catholicity in that portion of my Diocese; but it was in vain that I
                            indulged in such consoling hopes. They have at once been blasted, not by the fault of many,
                            I trust; but still, sufficient is the evil, to prevent me from sending among you a Priest,
                            as long as one can not reside there without danger for his life or Character, dearer to him
                            than life itself. I have therefore directed Rev. Joseph Kundek to remove the Vestments and
                            sacred vessels from the Church wherein the holy sacrifice will not be offered until peace
                            will be fully restored and charity reign among you.19
                  
                     This placed a partial interdict upon the congregation. Many of the members of the
                    congregation were deeply grieved and immediately took steps to settle the difficulties. A special
                    committee was appointed and on Easter Monday reported that in their estimation the most satisfactory
                    way of meeting the situation would be for the congregation to pledge itself under oath to terminate
                    all social and business relations with the troublemakers. This resolution with signatures was
                    delivered to the bishop at 
                        Vincennes
                     by a delegation of four. The delegation was also entrusted with a letter to thle bishop
                    from John Gerhard, the leading trustee, whose health prevented him from making the journey. Even
                    though they were deprived of a priest some assembled on Sundays and on Holy Days for devotional
                    reading and prayer which may have been conducted by one of the trustees. It must have been a happy
                    day for these devout people when the first part 
                  
                     18 Letter from Johann Herman Bödeke:,
                                    
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , June 3, 1848, as quoted in German in Kleber,
                                Ferdinand, 58–59.
                  
                     19 Maurice, Bishop of 
                                Vincennes
                             to the Congregation at Ferdinand, March 27, 1849, as quoted in Kleber, Ferdinand, 90–93.
               
                     of August in 1849, the bishop informed Father Kundek that he
                    would again be permitted to celebrate holy Mass at Feydinand.20
            
            At other times the lives of several of the priests were threatened, but it is apparent that they were
                    courageous and faced the situation squarely. An interview with a man of authority on May 2, 1944,
                    indicated that even today sonic of the members of the congregation at Ferdinand resent a priest who
                    is not of German ancestry. It must be remembered that in Ferdinand there were northern and southern
                    Germans, while in 
                        Jasper
                     the largest percentage were southern Germans and in 
                        Huntingburg
                     northern Germans. In Ferdinand there was this constant conflict between the two groups.
                    One group had the militaristic spirit and the other was yemütlich. No
                    doubt, the difficulties which arose may have been due to the two extremes represented by the
                    inhabitants of this community. A few incidents will indicate some of the troubles encountered. The
                    following letter from Ferdinand was written on December 7, 1860, to the editor of the 
                        Jasper
                    
                    Courier:
            
            
                    On the 2d day of December, 1860, there was a letter found before the door of Rev. Isidore, in
                        Ferdinand; which advises him to leave as soon as possible, that there was a conspiracy of about
                        40 or 50 men to take his life if he did not leave. I would ask you, 40 or 50 cowards! do you
                        think Rev. Isidore is like you, that he will flee from his own shadow? Or
                        don't you know that he was not sent here by you, and therefore you can't
                        remove him from here, either by threats or other means. You fear even to tell your names, which
                        shows you fear daylight. If Rev. Isidore has done you wrong, or any harm to you, or any one of
                        you, why don't you take him before a Court of justice? But I presume you are
                        men of a dark lantern, and that a red coat would suit you better than a black one, but you fear
                        the operation. Now if you wish to be called men, then tell us your names, and the cause you have
                        against Rev. Isidore, else we shall think you nothing more than 3 cowardly and assassin like
                        company.
                    I will tell you my name if you wish to know it.21
               
                
            On the night of December 3 Father Isidore was called upon to make a sick call into the district of
                    the chief conspirator. As the pastor. was walking along in the moonlight, suddenly, his eyes fell
                    upon a man with a gun. When the two met, the man inquired if Father Isidore had seen a dog. 
                  
                     20 Kleber, Ferdinand, 93, 96–97.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Jasper
                            , Indiana, Weekly Courier, December 12, 1860.
               
                     The Father replied that he had not seen one until then. Five
                    years later a man threatened to shoot Father Chrysostom. The pastor met the threat in the pulpit by
                    throwing his hand to his broad chest and saying, "Here, shoot!" The troublemaker
                    lived in the HessenEck22 and had publicly declared his intentions of shooting
                    the Father iE he entered this section. The pastor announced that at a designated hour of a certain
                    day, he would walk along the road through the woods of that region, and if anyone wanted to shoot
                    him, he might hide behind a tree and carry out his threat. Father Chrysostom returned home unharmed.
                    A woman with a questionable reputation came to the rectory one day and since no one met her at the
                    open door, she entered and boldly climbed the stairs which lied to the private rooms. Father
                    Chrysostom heard her footsteps and met her at the top of the stairs. With the assistance of the
                    Father's foot, she descended the stairs at a greater rate of speed than she had ascended.
                    On another occasion a man of small stature took it upon himself in a very insolent manner to inform
                    Father Chrysostom how to manage the affairs of the church. The Father merely took his visitor by the
                    coat collar, lifted him from the ground, carried the dangling man across the yard, and after a few
                    words of good advice, deposited him on the other side of the fence.
            A story related by a travelling salesman indicates that Father Eberhard, who served the parish at
                    Ferdinand from 1871 to 1898, had patriarchal authority. When the salesman drove through the town, he
                    came upon the scene of a rough fight at the main intersection. The fight became more serious, and he
                    thought A sheriff should be summoned, when a spectator. yelled out, "Fetch the
                    pastor!" After a short interval he heard a voice say, "The pastor is
                    coming!" Everybody looked up the hill toward the church and there saw a black-robed figure
                    approaching with a firm step. When he arrived he said, "What's going on here
                    again!" The fighters too, had heard the words "The Pastor is coming!" and
                    there was only a tug here and there, and they acted somewhat unconcerned. Father John who followed
                    Father Eberhard was very influential, and his word carried weight not only with individuals but also
                    with the community. He settled the 
                  
                     22 A district northeast of Ferdinand where a number of Hessians had
                            settled.
               
                     question about a ditch upon which two farmers had a difference
                    of opinion. He also restored peace to a home where the couple had decided to obtain a civil
                        divorce.23
            
            Father Kundek wished to honor the early settlers who had borne with him the trials and tribulations
                    in connection with the founding of the town of Ferdinand and the building of the churches and,
                    therefore, had their names, of which there were 174, inscribed in a book as Free Citizens of the
                    Congregation of Ferdinand, 1848. It is probable that this was done when the new church was put in
                    use. Those who wished to enjoy the right of citizenship in the congregation after this event were
                    required to pay a fee of three dollars. The custom of paying this fee in order to be affiliated with
                    the parish continued until 1906. One could belong to the parish without being a Free Citizen, but
                    then he was denied the special privileges which others enjoyed. The document setting forth the
                    rights of citizenship consisted of eleven articles of which a few are listed.
            
                    
                  1. No one should be entitled to enjoy recognition and rights as church associate who is
                            not entered upon the register of citizens either by reason of his sacrifices and labor or by
                            reason of payment of the church associate fee;
                  3. None such can be appointed church trustee, nor also help elect trustees as has up to
                            now been done lawfully in conformity with episcopal rights and ordinances;
                  4. None such should be buried in the cemetery of the church associates, neither he nor the
                            members of his family, if he has not paid to the church his offering consisting of at least
                            $3;
                  5. Rut if a Hausvater with a family makes to the church his contribution
                            of $3, he and all his unmarried children together with the wife shall be regarded
                            as church associates; but not his brothers and sisters who are of age, except in case of
                            destitution;
                  7. A widow, or a maiden, who is not a citizen can through marriage indeed enter upon the
                            rights of her present husband, if he has been a church associate, without his having to pay
                            also for her; but a man who is not a church associate cannot through marriage with a church
                            associate obtain these prerogatives except it be that he make the stipulated offering of
                            $3 to the church.24
                  
               
                
            In spiritual things, the authority of the pastor was supreme, but the management of temporal affairs
                    was entrusted to the trustees, who kept the financial records. Father 
                  
                     23Kleber, Ferdinand, 113, 136, 141–142,
                            156.
                  
                     24 Freie Bürger der Gemeinde von Ferdinand, 1848, as quoted
                            in Kleber, Ferdinand, 78–80.
               
                     Kundek referred to the trusiees as a church council. The
                    success of 
                        St. Joseph
                    's Parish at 
                        Jasper
                     may be attributed to the fine spirit of friendly co-operation which has existed between
                    the pastor and the trustees. When Father Fidelis began his work in 
                        Jasper
                     in 1865, he soon discovered that the church was too small, and plans were made for a
                    new church. Francis Eckert donated the stone, and others offered lumber and other building material.
                    Some contributed money, and then there were those who had to rely. on the tasks which their hands
                    and feet might perform. Each Sunday Father Fidelis would read from the pulpit a list of names, and
                    the particular task assigned to each for that particular. week. Some were called upon to perform
                    some type of unskilled labor, and others were to furnish teams. Father Fidelis even purchased a yoke
                    of oxen and usually drove them himself. The building process required a number of years because
                    Father Fidelis refused to build on credit.25
            
            In the beginning no provision had been made for heating the church. After several years, a number of
                    the parishioners expressed the desire that some type of heating system should be installed. Some
                    said Dampf-Heizung, steam heating, should be used, while a larger number- in
                    their. 
                        Pennsylvania
                     English-German favored Shteem-Heizung also steam heating. Father
                    Fidelis was not familiar with the English language and, therefore, under the impression that the 
                        Pennsylvania
                    
                    Shteem was something quite different from the German Dampf said,
                    "Dampf, das lass ich mir gefallen. Aber Shteem, da bin ich dagegen." "I
                    am satisfied with steam, but I am opposed to Shteem." The question was settled and steam
                    heating was installed.26 The walls of this romanesque church at 
                        Jasper
                     are four feet in thickness and in some places even six feet. It is a unique as well as
                    pretentious structure. Its stained-glass windows, artistic decoration, resplendent moasies, and the
                    artistic furniture of the sanctuary, particularly the altar, together with the costly sacred vessels
                    greatly enhance the interior of the church. A visit to this church alone is worthy of a trip to 
                        Jasper
                    .
            Toward the end of the forties Father Kundek made several attempts to obtain help since there was more
                    to do than he could satisfactorily handle. He desired German- 
                  
                     25 Kleber, Ferdinand, 82–85; Kleber, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Parish, 86, 67–69.
                  
                     26 Kleber, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Parish, 75.
               
                     speaking priests for the German communities which had already
                    been formed and those that were in the process of formation. He wrote to the provincial of the
                    Redemptorists at 
                        Baltimore
                     and offered the Redemptorists a section of his mission field. The reply, however, was
                    unfavorable. He then contacted the Benedictine Monastery of our. Lady of Einsiedeln, 
                        Switzerland
                    . Because the bishop of 
                        Vincennes
                     urged them to give due consideration to the request, the monastery eventually consented
                    and signed an agreement with the bishop. On the feast of St. Benedict, March 21, 1854, Father Kundek
                    reverently blessed the log cabin that served as a nucleus from which St. Meinrad's Abbey
                        grew.27 The cornerstone for the Chapel of Our Sorrowful Mother on Mount
                    Calvary was laid on June 18, 1876, and solemnly blessed on March 23, 1877. This was the realization
                    of a dream which Father Kundek had had, and in his will he remembered Mount Calvary.28
            
            It may be assumed that the church greatly aided in molding the lives of the inhabitants of 
                        Dubois County
                     as can be seen from the incidents which have been related. The importance of the church
                    has been expressed by H. K. Carroll in these words. "Every cornerstone it lays, it lays for
                    humanity; every temple it opens, it opens to the world; every altar it establishes, it establishes
                    for the salvation of souls. Its spires are fingers pointing heavenward; its ministers are messengers
                    of good tidings, ambassadors of hope, and angels of mercy."29
            
            The Germans who came to America clung to the customs of their fatherland. Some of these customs in 
                        Dubois County
                     are not only interesting, but also unusual. In 
                        Jasper
                     the ringing of the Angelus is not only a welcome invitation to meals, but it carries
                    the sacred message of the Annunciation to the townfolks and over the hills to the farmers. In some
                    rural churches in German settlements, it was not unusual to hear the bells each week-day morning and
                    evening. Father Fidelis in 
                        Jasper
                     was very exacting and insisted upon the custom of the Christian greeting,
                    "Praised be Jesus Christ," 
                  
                     27 The Abbey is located in 
                                Spencer County
                             about seven miles southeast of Ferdinand. Kleber, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Parish, 41–42; Kleber, Ferdinand, 37,
                            98–99.
                  
                     28 The chapel is approximately four blocks east of the church in
                            Ferdinand. Kleber, Ferdinand, 52, 143–144.
                  
                     29 Carroll, The Religious Forces of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , Ixvi.
               
                     with the answer "Forever, Amen!" This
                    greeting can still be heard in some of the homes and occasionally on the streets of Ferdinand. If
                    Father Kundek made a sick call and had the Blessed Sacrament with him, he would take a little hand
                    bell along. Whenever he passed a farm or people at work in the fields, he would ring the bell and
                    the people would come out of the houses or stop work in the fields in order to kneel and adore the
                    Blessed Sacrament. Father Kundek would bless them and then continue his journey. Father Kundck also
                    organized a Hundred Guards which added pomp and color not only to church celebrations, but also to
                    civic celebrations. At times Father Kundek himself led the Guards and hence was sometimes referred
                    to as the Duke of 
                        Jasper
                    .30
            
            There are still homes in 
                        Dubois County
                     where the family gathers for a short devotional period each day, and where a prayer
                    precedes and follows each meal, where the crucifix occupies its place of honor, and pictures of
                    saints adorn the walls. Even the calendars which are distributed by the businessmen contain
                    religious pictures and indicate the church holidays.
            On one of the Rogation days the parish still goes in a procession to the chapel on Mount Calvary. The
                    most picturesque procession, however, was on the feast of Corpus Christi. Days before the
                    celebration the boys and girls made wreaths and garlands for the church and for the four altars
                    which were erected throughout the town. The men built triumphal arches, and every house along the
                    route was decorated with holy pictures and statutes. In each quarter of the town there was an altar
                    in a shrine constructed of wood and adorned with muslin. A procession of approximately one thousand
                    started at the church and followed the glittering canopy underneath which the priest carried the
                    Blessed Sacrament. Most of the people marched in groups representing the society to which they
                    belonged and displayed the banner and regalia of their particular society. The band and the choir
                    alternated in the psalms and hymns. The church bells also made their contribution. Another
                    impressive procession taking place on the afternoon of Good Friday was opened by a large number of
                    children dressed in white and 
                  
                     30 Carl F. Wittke, We Who Built America (
                                New York
                            , 1940), 211–212; Kleber, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Parish, 95, 40; Schneider, The German Church on the
                                American Frontier, 228.
               
                     cawying the symbols of the Passion on cushions. The pictures of
                    the Stations of the Cross31 were carried on poles by fourteen men. On Holy
                    Saturday, at five o'clock in the evening, the devotion of the Way of the Cross was
                    conducted in the church. When the shades of night had fallen, a great procession went through the
                    streets to celebrate the Resurrection of the Lord. The bells again rang after a silence of three
                    days, the band played, and the children sang. A figure of the Risen Lord was carried. The
                    processions on Corpus Christus, Good Friday, and Holy Saturday as described above no longer take
                    place, but the procession to Mount Calvary on one of the Rogation days still takes place each
                        year.32
            
            The German custom of coloring Easter eggs is still popular and rather unique in Ferdinand. After the
                    services on Good Friday morning the Mass servers generally divided into four groups to tour the town
                    and countryside to solicit eggs. With their Holy Week rattlers, they go from house to house and in
                    unison recite.
            
                    Christ died for us,
                    Lies peaceful in the grave;
                    Risen from the dead on Easter morning,
                    Triumphant over death and hell.
                    Eggs or Money!
                
            The boys gather approximately a hundred dozen eggs and eighteen dollars in cash. The Sisters then
                    color enough eggs to present one dozen to each of the twenty-eight servers. The boys then sell the
                    rest of the eggs to the stores and bring the money to the Sister in charge of the Mass servers, and,
                    as a rule, she gives each one of the boys a dollar.33
            
            
               
                  31 These stations signify a series of pictures representing certain scenes
                        in the Passion of Christ, each corresponding to a particular incident. Formerly, the number
                        varied in different places but fourteen have now been prescribed by authority. They are as
                        follows: 1) Christ condemned to death; 2) the cross is laid upon Him; 3) His first fall; 4) He
                        meets His Blessed Mother: 5) Simon of Cyrene is made to bear the cross; 6) Christ's
                        face is wiped by Veronica; 7) His second fall; 8) He meets the women of Jerusalem; 9) His third
                        fall; 10) He is stripped of His garments; 11) His Crucifixion; 12) His death on the cross; 13)
                        His body is taken down from the cross; and 14) laid in the tomb. R. Cyprian Alston, The Catholic Encyclopedia (17 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1907–1982), XV (1912), 569.
               
                  32 The three days before Ascension Day are referred to as Rogation days
                        and observed as days of special supplication. Corpus Christi is a festival in honor of the
                        Eucharist observed on the Thursday after Trinity Sunday. Personal interview with Mrs. John
                        Gerber, May 2, 1944; also Kleber, Ferdinand, 226–229.
               
                  33 Kleber, Ferdinand, 230.
            
            
            
               
                        Salem
                     Evangelical and Reformed Church in 
                        Huntingburg
                     still observes the custom of tolling the bell to announce to the community that a death
                    has occurred within its membership. Each peal of the bell represents a year in the life of the
                    deceased. Another custom still observed is the Commemoration of the Dead which falls on the last
                    Sunday of the church year. Harvest Home Festival is observed in the fall when the church is
                    elaborately decorated with fruit, vegetables, and flowers.34
            
            No doubt, the holiday which is more important than any other in the German home is Christmas. For
                    weeks before Christmas the hearts of the little tots beat with hope or fear since they have heard
                    that the Christ child will reward the good and correct the bad. The German Hausfrau has been kept busy baking many varieties of cookies such as Lebkuchen,
                    Pfeffernüsse, and Springerle. In the German home Christmas Eve is the great family
                    festival. Without the Christmas tree the festival would have little meaning for the Germans. In
                    making the preparations for the celebration the happiness of the children is considered, and they
                    are the principals for that evening. There is no time in the entire year which brings more joy to
                    the heart of a German child than the Happy Evening. The joy of that evening has made such an
                    impression on the German mind from childhood up that poets have given vent to their feelings in
                    beautiful verses referring to the happiness experienced on Christmas Eve.
            Another custom which was brought over from 
                        Germany
                    , but no longer observed, was the New Year's shooting. On New Year's
                    Eve young men with guns would gather in groups and visit the homes they wished to honor, and where
                    they might expect a treat. A member of the group would recite the following or a similar New
                    Year's greeting after which a number of shots would be fired: 
                        Mr.
                        I wish you and your dear wife,
                        Your sons and daughters, servants and maids,
                        All who go in and out of the door
                        A blessed happy New Year;
                        A much better one than the old one was. We wish you a four-cornered table And on each corner
                            a fried fish,
                        
                     
                        34 Interview with the Reverend Theodore F. Schumacher, November
                                26, 1943.
                  
                        
                        In the center a bottle of wine.
                        This is to be the New Year's gift for you (and me and comrades).
                        We stand on your door step
                        In order to give you the New Year's shooting;
                        And should the shooting annoy you;
                        Then let us know before we shoot.—
                        I understand it will not annoy you;
                        Therefore we will give you a friendly shot.
                        The powder is not expensive;
                        So we will fire.
                    
            
            Another unusual custom occurred in connection with weddings. A brother or friend of the bride
                    extended the invitation to the wedding. He carried a staff as a badge of honor and symbol of
                    authority, and on his horse he would ride from house to house as he had been instructed. When he
                    delivered the invitations, the invited party would acknowledge the acceptance of the invitation by
                    tying a silk ribbon a yard long to the staff. Since each invited guest chose his favorite color of
                    ribbon, by the time the staff was returned to the prospective bride, it bore all the colors of the
                    rainbow. If the invited guest had no ribbon, money was given to the bearer of the invitation to
                    purchase a ribbon at the village store.35
            
            A day in the country courthouse or among the inhabitants of 
                        Dubois County
                     on the street will soon convince the visitor that German is spoken as much as English,
                    and those who do speak English have a German accent in speech or use German idioms.
            The first schools in 
                        Dubois County
                     were subscription schools. A number of people in a neighborhood would organize a school
                    of from eighteen to twenty-four pupils and then hire a teacher for a term of sixty days with a
                    remuneration of one dollar and a half to two dollars per pupil. The men who lived in that particular
                    district built these schools of logs near a spring so the pupils might have access to water. At one
                    end of the structure was a large fireplace, and at the other end a shelf which served as a writing
                    desk. The seats in the schoolroom were made by splitting small trees into halves and supporting them
                    by four or six wooden pins. A window was made by cutting a log out of one side of the building.
                    During the winter months, greased paper 
                  
                     35 Interview with Mrs. Anna Pfaff Meier, May 2, 1944; also Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     , 104.
               
                     was used to cover the long window. Since every pupil was apt to
                    have a different book, they would recite one at a time and in order of arrival at school on that
                    particular day Apparently, it did not matter what book they had so long as they had a book. The
                    sessions of the school were comparatively long since they lasted from sunup to sundown. There was no
                    regular hour for opening the school, but when a pupil arrived, he was expected to take his seat and
                    begin the study of his lessons. There must have been considerable confusion since the pupils had the
                    privilege of studying out loud in whatever tone of voice pleased them most, while at the same time,
                    the teacher was making an attempt to explain multiplication or long division to another group. Many
                    people were of the opinion that the more noise the pupils made in studying their lessons, the better
                    qualified they would be to recite. Goose quills served as pens, and the ink used was made by boiling
                    red oak bark and sumac berries and then adding a little copperas. Since them were no blotters, sand
                    was used.36
            
            The Treasurer of 
                        Dubois County
                     was authorized by an act approved by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana on
                    January 13, 1845, to perform the duties of School Commissioner. Another act approved on May 5, 1869,
                    stipulated the subjects to be taught and also indicated that if the parents of a certain area wished
                    the introduction of the German language as a branch of learning, their request should be granted
                    provided, that there were at least twenty-five children in the school, and the request was made
                    before the teacher for the said district had been employed.37
            
            The German immigrants brought with them from the Old World the ideal of parochial schools, in which
                    children of local congregations were instructed in the elementary branches of general (education,
                    and provision was also made for their religious instruction. Because there was a shortage of
                    teachers, the pastors became the first schoolteachers of the parochial schools.
            The German Evangelical Lutheran and Reformed Church 
                  
                     36 Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     , 170–172; Goodspeed Brothers & Company, History of 
                                    Pike
                                 and Dubois Counties (
                                Chicago
                            , 1885), 566, 569.
                  
                     37
                            Local Laws of the State of Indiana, 1844–1845, ch. XV; Laws of the State of Indiana, 1869, Special Sess., ch. XV.
               
                     in 
                        Huntingburg
                     conducted a parochial school. From the church minutes, it was not possible to ascertain
                    when the school was organized, but it was discontinued in 1881. The pastor was responsible for
                    teaching in the parochial school until 1865. The school term began with the first of September and
                    ended on Easter. Children of school age were expected to attend the parochial school, and even
                    though they did not go, their parents were expected to pay the assessed fee. The fee for the first
                    and second child was two dollars each and if there was a third child, no fee needed to be paid for
                    the latter. Six years later the fee was changed to fifty cents a month for each child of members and
                    seventy-five cents per month for each child of non-members. By 1870 those who lived in town were
                    expected to pay six dollars and those living on the farm four dollars for each child for the term.
                    It may be assumed from these minutes that the assessment had to be increased in order to pay the
                    salary of the teacher since after 1863, the pastor no longer taught the school, but a teacher was
                    hired for that duty. Some teachers apparently, had introduced new books on their own initiative. It
                    was, therefore, carefully recorded in the minutes that in the future no teacher had the authority to
                    change the textbook or introduce new books since that was a matter to be left to the discretion of
                    the Church Council.38
            
            The German Catholics at Ferdinand felt that the school term of the county school was too short and,
                    therefore, made provision to hold school for another three or four months, and each parent was
                    expected to contribute fifty cents at first and later sixty-two and a half cents a month for each
                    child in school. Since the money obtained in this fashion was not sufficient to pay a living salary
                    to the teacher, he also was given the position of sacristan. In the latter position some of his
                    duties were to attend the priest in church, sing, ring the bell, and clean the church. The
                    remuneration for this work was fifty cents from each citizen. It is apparent that not all citizens
                    paid their obligations since in 1849, the trustees stipulated in the contract that they would not be
                    responsible for the payment of the citizen's school money or the sacristan's
                    salary. The curriculum and educational 
                  
                     38 Minutes of the German Evangelical Lutheran and Reformed Church,
                            January 13, 1865, December 26, 1850, October 23, 1850, January 13, 1863, May 8, 1870,
                            January 14, 1877; One Hundredth Anniversary, 
                                    Salem
                                 Evangelical and Reformed Church, 16.
               
                     methods in use in those early Catholic parochial schools differ
                    considerably from those in use today. In the forenoon all lessons were in German, and in the
                    afternoon they were in English. There were, however, some teachers who did not know English and then
                    the entire day was devoted to instruction in German. The course of study for two days may be of
                    interest. Monday morning, catechism, writing, and arithmetic; Monday afternoon, English reading and
                    writing; Tuesday morning, memory work in Bible stories, arithmetic, and singing; Tuesday afternoon,
                    reading and Bible stories.39
            
            Some of the textbooks used in Ferdinand were A. and W. Picket, The Principles of English
                        Grammar; S. G. Goodrich, The Third School Reader; Noah Webster, The Elementary Spelling Book; and William G. Webster, A Sequel to
                        Webster's Elementary Spelling Book or A Speller and Definer.
                    Father Chrysostom in 1863 introduced McGuffey's New First Reader., as
                    well as the Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth Reader. Wilson
                    lists the following among the early textbooks: Webster's Blue-Back
                    Speller, DeBald's or 
                        Pike
                    's Arithmetic, Olney's Geography and
                        Atlas, The English Reader, American Preceptor, Peter Parley's Readers, Swiss Family
                        Robinson, and the Bible. A few pupils possessed Grimshaw's History of 
                            England
                        
               , Flint's Natural History, Emma Willard's
                        History of the 
                            United States
                        
               , Krikham's Grammar, and Smiley's Arithmetic.40
            
            The methods employed by some teachers give one an idea of the temper they possessed. A little girl
                    whose name was Anna, not yet six years of age, had to accompany her brother to school because he had
                    been whipped so much that he lost all interest in schoolwork. Anna was given a copybook and required
                    to write with ink in this book. She had the misfortune of getting an ink blot on her book, and the
                    teacher deemed it necessary to punish her. She was made to stand on a high stump into which notches
                    had been cut to make it possible for the girls to climb it. On this stump she had to stand and with
                    an outstretched arm hold the book up for the benefit of the entire school. In another district
                    school girls and boys were disciplined by being made to kneel on the edge of a piece of stove wood.
                    Some teachers 
                  
                     39 Kleber, Ferdinand, 57, 70–72, 116.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 117; Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     , 171.
               
                     must have delighted in the use of the stick and struck across
                    the hand of a child until the skin began to burst open. A rough Swiss teacher seemed to be of the
                    opinion that the proper way to begin the day was to slap or whip the first boy he could lay his hand
                    upon. A man now living in Ferdinand claims that his defective hearing may be attributed to a slap
                    this teacher gave him upon his ear. After the teacher was satisfied that he had established his
                    authority, he began in a very reverent way, "in the name of the Father.
                        …"41
            
            The church donated in 1898 lots 99 and 100 to the township for a school. When in 1908 Ferdinand
                    became an incorporated town, the township trustees sold the school to the Ferdinand School
                    Corporation for one dollar. Two buildings are used for school purposes. The smaller one is located
                    on the northwest corner of the church block and is situated on the lots donated by the church, and
                    the larger building near the church belongs to the parish. For the use of the latter the School
                    Board of Ferdinand pays approximately three hundred dollars a year. This sum includes the rental fee
                    and fuel and light. The parish building contains four large well-equipped classrooms. Spacious
                    playgrounds also surround the parish building. The town corporation employs the teachers which for
                    the school year 1943–1944 consisted of four sisters and two lay teachers.42
            
            The Convent of the Immaculate Conception is located on Mount Tabor. The impressive building of this
                    convent may be seen for miles before entering Ferdinand. It was accredited in 1914 as St.
                    Benedict's Normal for Teachers and at the present time ranks as a Three Year Normal School.
                    The young women who study at the convent do their practice teaching in the grade school at
                        Ferdinand.43
            
            As early as 1842, Father Kundek had hopes of establishing a Girls’ Boarding School at 
                        Jasper
                    . The Sisters of 
                        Providence
                     were to be in charge and teach in the English, French, and German languages. The course
                    of study was to include all the branches that were being taught in any American institution. The
                    price for board and tuition was to be seventy- 
                  
                     41 Interview with Mrs. Anna Pfaff Meier, May 2, 1944; also Kleber, Ferdinand, 117–118.
                  
                     42 Letter from Father Albert Kleber, June 28, 1944; also Kleber, Ferdinand, 71, 157–158.
                  
                     43 The convent is approximately four blocks east of the church in
                            Ferdinand. Kleber, Ferdinand, 124–129.
               
                     five dollars for a year; extra charges were to be made for
                    instruction in music, painting, and drawing. The age of the pupils was to range from ten to eighteen
                    years. The hill to success for the projected institution was too steep to climb, for the Catholics
                    were indifferent toward the project, and the non-Catholics mistrusted and opposed the venture. The
                    boarding school, therefore, developed into an ordinary grade school under the jurisdiction of the
                    county. The contract which Mother Theodore submitted to Father Kundek on July 28, 1844, for the
                    management of this school stipulated that the church pay the Sisters one hundred dollars a year.
                    provide them with flour, meat, sugar, and coffee, and that they have the use of the house,
                    furniture, and garden. On these conditions the Sisters would receive gratis the children of the
                    county. Two Sisters would be responsible for the languages—one for German and the other
                    for English.44
            
            The inhabitants of 
                        Jasper
                    , like those of Ferdinand, felt that the school term was too short and after the county
                    school closed, the parish school would open. Each child was expected to pay one cent for each school
                    day or twenty cents a month during the period that the parish school was in session.45
            
            The Benedictines founded 
                        Jasper
                     College on September 12, 1889, and in 1928 the name was changed to 
                        Jasper
                     Academy. Since 
                        Jasper
                     was somewhat remote from the metropolitan areas, it was deemed advisable in the summer
                    of 1933 to transfer the Academy to 
                  Aurora, Illinois
               , where it operates as Marmion Military
                        Academy.46
            
            Although many early German settlers in the West were not affiliated with any church, those who
                    settled in 
                        Dubois County
                     were religious-minded and met in private homes until a church could be built. As their
                    membership increased, they made plans to provide larger and better church edifices. The churches in
                    the various communities of the county influenced the lives of the inhabitants. The Germans continued
                    to carry out many of the customs of their homeland which made life so colorful in this county, and
                    although their institutional life was highly developed, they did not readily shed that trait of
                    individualism so characteristic of Germans. The first schools in the county were subseription
                    schools, but 
                  
                     44 Kleber, 
                        
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Parish, 28–30.
                  
                     45
                            Ibid., 57.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., 75–76.
               
                     the Germans brought with them the ideal of parochial schools.
                    To them the religious instruction was as important as instruction in the elementary branches of
                    general education. They wrote a chapter in the religious and educational history of the county which
                    stands out as an important phase in the development of churches and other institutions. A few of the
                    outstanding ones are 
                        Salem
                     Evangelical and Reformed Church at 
                  Huntingburg, St. Joseph
               's
                    Roman Catholic Church at 
                        Jasper
                    , the Roman Catholic Church at Ferdinand, and the Convent of the Immaculate Conception
                    at Ferdinand. The German influence is also very strong in other fields and institutions.
         
         
         
            Early Literary Societies at 
                        Wabash
                     College
            L. R. Lind
            Out of the speaking past the voice of the undergraduate has never failed to be heard. The American
                    college and the frontier developed together, and, with them, American politics, the mainspring of
                    rhetoric in days when politics were taken more seriously than they are today. Although American
                    undergraduates have not unseated ministries, they have always been articulate and energetic. The
                    force of this statement may be shown by a reading of the minute books and records of college
                    literary and debating societies from the moment of their founding. While the sometimes turbulent
                    realism of their meetings, the sharp give and take, the comedy and pathos of youthful eloquence let
                    loose upon a given theme is now lost to us, those minutes indicate what the student was thinking and
                    talking about as the 
                        United States
                     grew into a great nation. They reveal a source for American history in the making, too
                    precious to remain entirely neglected.
            In the Yandes Memorial Library at 
                        Wabash
                     College, founded in 1832 at 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Indiana, there are filed two dozen dog-eared ledgers, the repository of almost all
                    that is known of the early literary societies in that institution. They bore names that recalled the
                    dominant classical influence of that period, stately and a bit pompous-Euphronean, Atlantian
                    Literati, Calliopean, Lyceum, Philomathean, Columbian Institute, and, only slightly less
                    magnificent, The Western Literary Society. Some of them flourished for a few years, undergoing
                    successive avatars of reorganization or merging with other groups. None of them exist any longer.
                    Most of the minutes are set down in a faultless calligraphy rare in our days. Each society had its
                    appropriate Latin motto: Lyceum Society drew upon Horace, Epistles II, 2, 45, "inter silvas
                    academi quaerere verum"; Calliopean Society preferred "libri cibus
                    animo." The library indeed of Columbian Institute (for each society had its own collection
                    of books, housed in its own hall) included in 1844 Gil Blas, Don Quixote, Shakespeare, Josephus, The History of Redemption, Practical Piety, The Young Man's Guide, Master Key
                        to Popery, and Bulwer's novels.
            Rules and regulations were rigid. Fines were levied on members for lack of performance, absence,
                    walking about, while a speaker held the Eloor, whispering, talking, leaning  against the wall, putting one's feet on the stove, using
                    tobacco, or eating apples. Occasionally refreshments of lemonade were served; now and then the
                    ladies were invited. Those delinquent in dues were often exposed to a scene such as this which
                    occurred on March 29, 1844, in Euphronean Hall: 
                        A brief journal as read by B. I. Dunn containing a notice of the treasurer to delinquent
                            debtors which was heard amid repeated and deafening applause and was followed by a spirited
                            and animated song in the melancholy chorus of which "Hark from the tombs a doleful
                            sound" all the members enthusiastically joined. Then the society, after listening
                            to a solo on the drum, proceeded to elect officers.
                    
            
            Sometimes unruly spirits broke the bonds of strict decorum and shocked the assembled gathering, as on
                    July 17, 1844, when retribution fell upon a certain William Hamilton Lazarus Noble: 
                        Mr. Montgomery offered the following motion, Whereas William Noble has at a meeting of this
                            Society a short time previous to this used language unbecoming a gentleman, and whereas said
                            Noble in the commencement of that meeting said that he knew nothing of the question then
                            before the society and did not intend to vote and whereas, contrary to this declaration, the
                            said Noble in a few minutes after took the floor and with foul mouthed accusations not only
                            insulted the members of this society but violated one of its laws, to wit "That no
                            gentleman shall use improper language in this Society"; therefore in view of these
                            considerations, I move that William Hamilton Lazarus Noble be expelled from this society,
                            which was adopted.
                    
            
            After such an ill-omened beginning, the meeting then fell to the discussion of such themes as these,
                    strangely familiar to our machine age: "Should the Classics be discarded in our Academies
                    and schools? Are professional men too numerous in our country?" or
                    this one, still hotly debated by our major political parties: "Would it be good policy for
                    posterity to be held responsible for the debts of their ancestors for a longer time than one
                    age?" In the same year the speakers mulled over the proposition, "Ought
                    there to be a Congress of Nations?"
            On off-days, when interest in current affairs lagged or when the objectivity that history bestows
                    upon events long since enacted seemed more desirable than partisan contemporary issues, the members
                    discussed lofty problems of this sort: "Does the Poet exert a greater influence than the
                    orator? Is our national character advancing in intelligence and
                    virtue?" "DO savage nations possess a complete right to the
                    soil? Was the execution of Mary Queen of Scots 
                    justifiable?" This was a favorite topic; the tragic queen sometimes gave way to
                    other figures, Louis XVIII, Charles I, or Robert Emmett; but the question was framed In the same
                    terms.
            Other questions gave rise to much ethical soul-searching and painful logic. What, after all, could a
                    student debater in a tolerant and liberty-loving nation in the year 1844 say about the embarrassing
                    questions: "Ought Congress to take any means to prevent the spread of
                    Catholicism? Was it morally right for the American colonies to revolt from Great
                    Britain? Does civilization increase happiness?" Who could
                    successfully defend the affirmative on "Has War been beneficial to the world?
                    Should a student in college cultivate the friendship of the ladies?" Consciences
                    were intermittently troubled by the proposition, occurring as early as October 15, 1859:
                    "Was the Mexican War of 1816 justifiable on the part of the U.S.?" And
                    while the backbreaking toil of the pioneer farmer was a part of every student's experience,
                    they could still gravely discuss a question that acutely troubles us today: Are labor-saving
                    machines beneficial?"
            But it was the national issues of the time that stirred the debaters to surpass themselves; year by
                    year, certain questions reflected the intense drama of history. The Euphronean Society in 1844 was
                    disturbed by the challenge: "Should 
                        Texas
                     be admitted to the Union?" and in 1848 the Lyceum Literary Society
                    considered: "Would it be right to establish slavery in any territory that has lately been
                    annexed or may be in the future? Should Congress support the Wilmot
                    Proviso?" and anxiously inquired on May 25, 1849, "Will the discovery
                    of the gold mines in 
                        California
                     be more beneficial than injurious to this country?"
            Throwing to the winds the jejune topics "Does the reading of novels injure the
                    mind? Docs the persecution of the sciences tend to retard their
                    progress?" these tireless interrogators of the Delphic oracle turned on April 9,
                    1844, to grim realities with the query: "Is it probable that 
                        Texas
                     will sustain her liberties?" and as tile Civil War drew near, they
                    asked in breathless succession: "Is the refusal of Northern States to obey the Fugitive
                    Slave Law sufficient cause for a Southern Secession? Is Secession treason?
                    Ought the Fugitive Slave Law to hale been passed?"
            Sober spirits attempted in vain to quiet fevered minds. With the nation plunged into conflict, Mr.
                    Finch, of Lyceum Society, offered the following on September 13, 1861:
            
            
                    "Resolved that in the debates of the present term owing to the excited state of public
                        feeling we abstain entirely from questions in which governmental policy on the war is
                        concerned." It was taken up for immediate action and after a prodigious display of both
                        eloquence and logic was lost. The society then proceeded to select a question to be debated next
                        night and finally adopted the following.: Can we reasonably expect to suppress the present
                        rebellion?
                
            The questions and resolutions came swiftly, this momentary threat to free speech having been thus
                    averted, interest ran high. "Resolved that our National war vessel was justified in taking
                    forcible possession of Mason and Slidell; Resolved that it would have been expedient for our
                    government to have adopted Gen. 
                        Fremont
                    's proclamation. Is the President's Emancipation expedient and good
                    policy?" One may notice the emphasis upon expedience in these propositions.
                    Objective ethical considerations were, by this time. secondary if not irrelevant. They were reserved
                    for less troubled times, together with such mild academic puzzlers as "Did the Grecian
                    games have a beneficial influence upon the Greek mind?"
            As the war drew to its close, an ugly temper of vengeance gained expression among debaters now
                    thinking of many of their comrades who lay dead on the battlefield or languished in Southern
                    prisons. In 1865 proposals of this nature: "Should the government of the U.S. execute all
                    Rebels above the rank of Brigadier General? Should General Sherman be relieved of his
                    command? Should the returning rebels be represented in Congress? Should the
                    conspirators against the life of our late President be tried by a civil court?"
                    were the order of the day.
            In the cycle of the seasons the speechmakers returned once more to the quiet garden of the
                    age? and to less inspiring problems; in a mood of lofty resignation they were content to
                    reconsider the well-worn theme: "Is woman the moving power in all the affairs of
                    life?" The response which even this might still elicit can be measured by the
                    tribute offered in the notes of one enthusiastic secretary: "One thought while drinking in
                    the flames as they issued from the ardent eyes of the Grecian muse that he was e'en
                    transported to that golden age when heaven-descended heroes extirpated all the woes of man and were
                    chronicled by the muse in strains of surpassing eloquence and beauty." But in the twenty
                    most continuously exciting years since the Revolution these devotees of the muses had bravely
                    shouldered their country's burdens upon the creaking rostrum of the debating hall.
         
         
         
            The Cherokee Commission, 1889–1893
            Berlin E. Chapman
            The Cherokee Commission was the most important commission in the federal management and disposition
                    of the lands of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Territory. From May, 1890, to the dissolution of the commission on November 7, 3893,
                    that body made eleven agreements with Indians for dissolution of reservations in the Territory, all
                    of which agreements were approved by Congress and incorporated in the 
                  
                            United States
                         Statutes at Large. The agreements involved more than fifteen million acres and
                    were all negotiated on the part of the 
                        United States
                     by David H. Jerome of 
                        Michigan
                    , Warren G. Sayre of Indiana, and Alfred M. Wilson of 
                        Arkansas
                    . Going behind the political scenes, we find that seven other men, all Republicans, were
                    appointed to serve on the commission, two others were asked to serve, and several hopeful applicants
                    of both political parties were not appointed.
            Section fourteen of the Indian appropriation act of March 2, 1889, provided for the appointment of
                    the Cherokee Commission to negotiate with the Cherokee and with other Indians owning or claiming
                    lands lying west of the ninety-sixth degree of longitude in the Indian territory for the cession to
                    the 
                        United States
                     of all their titles, claim, or interest of every kind or character in and to said
                    lands. For this purpose the President was "authorized to appoint three commissioners, not
                    more than two of whom shall be members of the same political party."1
                    In other words, the commission should consist of two Republicans and one Democrat. For the first
                    time in eight years the Republicans controlled both branches of Congress.
            Strangely enough, Alfred M. Wilson, Democratic member of the commission, was the only person to serve
                    throughout the entire life of that body. It appears that the most potent factor in his securing the
                    appointment was the following letter which Representative Samuel W. Peel of 
                        Arkansas
                     addressed to the Secretary of the Interior, March 21, 1889: 
                        In connection with the application of the Hon. Alfred & I. Wilson for place on
                            Cherokee Commission, I desire to say that he is one of the first men of the State, is a man
                            of acknowledged ability and un 
                        
                           1
                                    
                              
                                            United States
                                         Statutes at Large, XXV, 1005.
                     
                             questioned ability and unquestioned integrity, resides
                            at Fayetteville, Ark., in 25 miles of Cherokee Territory and has resided there for over 40
                            years. Was District Atty for Western District of Ark. for many years and knows much of these
                            Indian people. Many of the most prominent Cherokees mere educated at the Home Town of Mr.
                            Wilson and know him well. Amongst the prominent Indians of the Cherokees educated there are
                            the Boudinotts [sic], Rosss, Ridges, Adairs and Bells. There is no man
                            within my knowledge equal to Mr. Wilson for this particular duty, being a good lawyer, fine
                            judge of such property, and familiar with the various treaties with these people, peculiarly
                            fits him for this place. Besides all this Mr. Secretary, as Chairman of the House Committee
                            on Indian Affairs I drafted and placed this Commission on Indian appropriation bill, which
                            was amended in the Senate, and in conferences it was mutually understood between conferees
                            of both Houses that Senator Jones and myself at least ought to be allowed to name the
                            Democratic member of the Commission and we then made it known that Hon. Alfred M. Wilson was
                            the name we would present.
                        This considered with Mr. Wilson's high character and superior qualifications, I must
                            respectfully and earnest[ly] ask his appointment.2
                  
                    Wilson filed no personal application For the appointment, but during the fortnight before
                    three appointments for the commission were made on March 28, his supporters presented rather a
                    formidable front.
            The following letter was signed by Senators James K. Jones and James H. Berry of 
                        Arkansas
                    ,3 and Peel and addressed to the President on March 14:
                    "For the democratic member of the Commission…. we beg to recommend the Hon. A.
                    M. Wilson of Fayetteville, Ark. Mr. Wilson is a man of age and experience, once being U. S. Dist.
                    Atty. for Western District of Ark. Knows much of Cherokee people. His ability, integrity and good
                    moral character is first class." About March 20, the following sentence, in the handwriting
                    of Jones, was addressed to the President: "We respectfully request the appointment of Hon.
                    A. M. Wilson of 
                        Arkansas
                     to be a member of the Corn., to negotiate with the Cherokees for the sale of the
                    Cherokee strip." Appended thereto are the signatures of Jones, Peel, Berry, and Senators,
                    R. L. 
                  
                     2 A Miscellaneous File is in the National Archives, Appointment
                            Division, Department of Interior, in which may be found in alphabetical order the papers of
                            several persons who were under consideration for membership in the Cherokee Commission.
                            Unless otherwise stated, this file is the source from which material was taken. Letters of
                            endorsement were usually written on official stationery, apparently in considerable haste.
                  
                     3 Jones was a member of the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs; Berry
                            a member of the Senate Committee on Public Lands.
               
                     Gibson of 
                        Louisiana
                    , James R. Beck of 
                        Kentucky
                    , Charles J. Faulkner of West 
                        Virginia
                    , George Gray of 
                        Delaware
                    , John S. Barbour of 
                        Virginia
                    , W. E. Bate of 
                        Tennessee
                    , and D. W. Voorhees of Indiana, all Democrats.
            On March 22, Poindexter Dunn, recently a Representative from 
                        Arkansas
                    , wrote to the Secretary of the Interior saying that Wilson had resided all his life in
                    the immediate neighborhood of the Indians and the lands in question, was strictly honest, and that
                    the department would be fortunate to secure his services. On the same day Representative Benjamin F.
                    Shively, Democrat from Indiana, and Representative E. W. Perkins, Republican from 
                        Kansas
                     and chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs, each wrote an endorsement for Wilson.
                    Another endorsement on that day carried the signatures of W. P. Taulbee4 of 
                        Kentucky
                    , and Representatives W. S. Holman of Indiana and Benjamin Butter-worth of 
                        Ohio
                    .
            John F. Brown, "Principal Chief of Seminole Nation and Delegate" and Pleasant
                    Porter, Delegate of Creek Nation, wrote a letter from 
                        Washington
                     to the Secretary of the Interior on March 24, recommending Wilson for "the
                    democratic member" of the commission. Two endorsements for Wilson came from Fort Smith, 
                        Arkansas
                    , on March 25. One was a four-page letter by Judge J. J. Parker on stationery of the "
                        United States
                     Courts." The other, from E. C. Boudinot, Cherokee lawyer, was as follows:
                        
                        I think I am authorized to say in behalf of the Cherokees that the appointment of Alfred M.
                            Wilson of Fayelteville, 
                                Arkansas
                            , as one of the commissioners to treat with the Cherokees for a cession of the
                            Cherokee Outlet of the 
                                United States
                            , would he eminently satisfactory to all the Cherokee people. He is well known
                            to them as a just, honest, and very able lawyer, and gentleman.
                    President Harrison on March 28 appointed George D. Robinson as chairman of the commission,
                    and J. Otis Humphrey and Wilson as members of it.5
            
            
               
                  4 Taulbee was a Representative from 
                            Kentucky
                        , whose term expired March 3, 1889. Peel and Shively were members of the Committee
                        on Indian Affairs. Perkins replaced Peel as chairman. Holman, a Democrat, was a member of the
                        Committee on the Public Lands.
               
                  5 On March 27, E. B. Harrison, businessman of Fayetteville, "an
                        Ex Union Soldier and a life long Republican," sent the Secretary of the Interior a
                        vigorous endorsement of Wilson, saying that it was written without solicitation (or even
                        knowledge) on the part of Col. Wilson." March 30 brought Wilson a belated endorsement
                        from Representative John H. Rogers of Fort Smith, which closed with this sentence: "I
                        can not say more of any one, than of him."
            
            
            From archival records it appears that Wilson's chief competitors were three Democrats, none
                    of whom made direct application for appointment. Hernando De Soto Money, former Congressman from 
                        Mississippi
                     and a 
                        Washington
                     lawyer, was endorsed by the petition of twenty-four Democratic senators, and by
                    Republican Senators John Sherman, John P. Jones, Henry W. Blair, William M. Stewart, and John H.
                    Mitchell. J. W. Throckmorton, former governor of 
                        Texas
                    , was endorsed by Senators Richard Coke and John H. Regan of his state, and by prominent
                    Republicans of his home town, McKinney. Also he had the endorsement of Senators J. N. Dolph, C. C.
                    Farwell, H. M. Teller, and Preston E. Plumb, chairman of the Committee on Public Lands.
            J. C. Jamison, who had been for four years the Adjutant General of 
                        Missouri
                    , on March 6 wrote to John B. Henderson that on the previous day the Republicans of the
                    Senate and House of the 
                        Missouri
                     legislature 
                        did me the grateful courtesy without my solicitation to unanimously united in a request for
                            my appointment on the Commission. … Since a Democrat must be appointed under the
                            provisions of the bill, I feel that my claims are as just as those of any other
                            Democrat's and if my Republican friends will stand to me I will get it.
                     On the same day a petition for Jamison's appointment, signed by eight state
                    senators and 32 representatives, was addressed to President Harrison. D. P. Dyer wrote on the
                    petition that Jamison "was a brave soldier (on the wrong side during the war) and is a good
                    citizen now." The fact that John W. Noble, Secretary of the Interior, was from 
                        Missouri
                     probably made the outlook more hopeful. Jamison, as one of his friends put it, was
                    "true blue; is capable; is out of employment." Within a few days a dozen of his
                    friends had written Senator Francis M. Cockrell of 
                        Missouri
                    , or Noble, urging his appointment. Cockrell recommended the appointment on March 14.
            On the outer edge of the group were aspirants, more or less able, who lacked the political drive to
                    gain the prize. True, they carried a party label and some local influence. M. H. Levinston of 
                        Kansas
                     City, 
                        Missouri
                    , a financial agent, interested in loans and real estate, sent his application to
                    Harrison on inauguration day. On March 12 he wrote Noble, saying in part: 
                    
                        Have been a long resident of this City—and can give, if desired, any amount of
                            bond or references, relative to ability, character, standing etc.,—also
                            references both financially and commercially. Mr. J. S. Harrison of this City—a
                            brother of the President, is, I think stopping at the "Ebbett House" and
                            will, no doubt, be glad to recommend me.
                     Although many office seekers learned that Benjamin Harrison "sweats
                    icewater," the President could hardly be accused of being immobile to requests of his
                    family.
            The name of, "Marmaduke," was well known in 
                        Missouri
                     politics, but had passed the peak of its popularity. Vincent Marmaduke on March 12
                    solicited the influence and kindly offices of the Secretary of the Interior "in the
                    interest of my brother, Mr. D. W. Marmaduke, late warden of the 
                        Missouri
                     Penitentiary, who desires the appointment." Jere J. Barker of 
                        Nebraska
                     apparently knew Harrison personally: at least, he talked with him about the
                    appointment. No endorsements were filed, but on March 8 Barker wrote to him on stationery of the
                    Oniaha Daily and Weekly World, saying in part: "Glad you are in and wish
                    I could have seen the installation." W. A. Peffer was "a citizen of 
                        Kansas
                    , of republican politics."6 His application on March 7 was
                    characterized by this sentence: "I am somewhat familiar with the history of matters
                    involved, and am in favor of obtaining the lands in question and opening them to settlement as soon
                    as it can be done honorably and lawfully, but have no symptons of 
                        Oklahoma
                     fever." M. R. Pritchard of Tolona, 
                        Missouri
                    , applied to President Harrison on March 12, to Noble on March 18. He had little
                    influence other than being a member of the centixl committee, and having the endorsement of the
                    local postmaster. Apparently, he doubted if the President would "condescend to notice my
                    petition." Edward L. Marston of Fort Worth, 
                        Texas
                    , Treasurer and Secretary of the Methodist Board of Missions, applied on March 19.
                    Pritchard and Manton, like other aspirants in the faint and forgotten distance, were unnoticed when
                    the patronage was passed out.
            On the other extreme there were those too high on the political tower, too busily engaged in private
                    enterprise, or too engrossed in other things to be a member of the Cherokee Commission. It has been
                    noted that when President Harrison 
                  
                     6 This is an interesting letter because Peffer was elected within a
                            year to the 
                                United States
                             Senate as a Populist.
               
                     appointed Wilson on March 28, he named George D. Robinson,
                    ex-governor of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , as chairman of the commission, and J. Otis Humphrey, promising political figure of
                            
                  Springfield, Illinois
               , as a member.7
            
            On March 30 Noble advised the three men of their appointments, saying in part: 
                        You will please report in person to the Department in order that you may receive the
                            necessary instructions for conducting the negotiations Provided for.
                        It is important that the Commission enter upon its duties as early as practicable. Each of
                            the Commissioners will be allowed his railroad fare and transportation expenses and
                            $3.00 per diem during the time of actual service, in lieu of all other personal
                            expenses, and will be allowed a compensation at the rate of $10.00 per diem,
                            during the time of his actual service.8
                  
                    Noble on April 4 telegraphed the three appointees as follows: "Report in person to
                    this Department on 15th instant, the date fixed for Commissioners to meet here, unless otherwise
                    ordered in meantime." Wilson left his home in 
                        Arkansas
                     on April 10, reached 
                        Washington
                     on April 15 on which day he reported to the department.9 Humphrey
                    apparently was present, but the weak, if not the missing, link was Chairmail 
                  
                     7 The paper of appointment, signed by Harrison, is in
                            Robinson's envelope, Miscellaneous File, Appointment Division, Department of
                            Interior, National Archives. Senator George F. Hoar of 
                                Massachusetts
                             submitted Robinson's name to Noble on March 25. Hoar had sup-ported
                            Robinson during his candidacy for governor, and in the Republican convention of 1868 Hoar
                            had given belated support to Harrison in securing the Presidential nomination. Senator
                            Shelby M. Cullom of 
                                Illinois
                             on March 12, 1889, urged Humphrey's appointment. Humphrey entered
                            politics in 1876 under the tutelage of Cullom who was that year elected governor of 
                                Illinois
                            . In 1901, Humphrey was appointed judge of the 
                                United States
                             District Court for the Southern District of 
                                Illinois
                            . There is a sketch of his life in the Journal of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Society (
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     , 1908–), XI (1918–1019),
                            4.57–459.
                  
                     8 Letters from Noble to Robinson, Humphrey, and Wilson on March 30,
                            1880, are in the Office of Indian Affairs, Record Letters Sent, No. 59, pp.
                            260–262. The rate of compensation remained the same for the duration of the
                            commission.
                  
                     9 Wilson took the oath of office on April 16. Sigourney 
                                Butler
                            , Second Comptroller of the Treasury, held that the taking of the oath was a
                            condition precedent to the officer's right to salary or emoluments of his office.
                            Wilson's expenses, and salary contemplated, prior to April 16, amounted to
                            $127.80, which sum was appropriated for him by the deficiency appropriation act
                            of September 30, 1890. Wilson to Noble, April 16, 1889, Office of Indian Affairs, 2024 Ind.
                            Div. 1889; First Assistant Secretary Chandler to Wilson, April 20, 1880, Office of Indian
                            Affairs, Department of Interior, Indian Affairs, Miscellaneous, LXX, 364; 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, XXVI, 524.
               
                     Robinson. On April 17 Robinson wrote to President Harrison from
                            
                  Springfield, Massachusetts
               : 
                        Putting in a formal way what I said to you in the interview of yesterday, I express my
                            appreciation of the conspicious mark of your confidence and the prominent honor you
                            conferred upon me, hut am constrained to add that by reason of engagements from which I
                            cannot he released I am unable to accept the appointment as a member of the Commission to
                            the Cherokee or other Indians, and therefore decline the same.
                    Since the commission was not ready for organization and procedure in the field of its
                    duties, Noble on April 20 directed Humphrey and Wilson to return to their homes where in due time
                    they would receive notice from the department of the time and place their presence and services
                    would be required.10
            
            Humphrey on April 3 had taken the oath of office as a member of the commission and on the same day
                    had executed a bond as disbursing agent of the commission. Upon investigation, he found that the
                    requirements of the department as to all matters of accounting between the government and members or
                    employees of the commission, were of such a nature that they would require much of his time and
                    seriously embarrass him in the performance of his duties as a, member of the commission. On April 20
                    he requested release from the duties of disbursing agent, recommending that a bonded officer be
                    specially appointed to accompany the commission in that capacity.11 Wilson
                    appended a note to the letter stating that he heartily concurred in the request. This request
                    brought into the picture Horace Speed, an attorney of Guthrie, who appears to be the only person to
                    apply for a place on the commission, and subsequently to be appointed in any capacity whatever to
                    work with it. Speed addressed his letter to the President on March 15, named four men who would
                    endorse his application and stated that he could secure recommendations from "Senator
                    Manderson of 
                        Nebraska
                     and other. Republican politicians." His strongest endorsement of record was
                    written by W. H. H. Miller., Attorney General, who said in part: "Mr. S. is of the Kentueky
                        
                  
                     10 Noble to Humphrey and Wilson, April 20, 1889, Office of Indian
                            Affairs, Record Letters Sent, No. 59 p. 408.
                  
                     11 Humphrey to Com. Indian Affairs, April 20, 1889, Office of Indian
                            Affairs, 2152 Ind. Div. 3880. Senator Cullom on May 19 recommended that Humphrey be made
                            chairman of the commission.
               
                     family of that name, is a good lawyer and very intelligent, and
                    upright man. He is interested in and has been making a study of the subject connected with the
                    opening up of the Indian Territory." Miller said he did not "know a better
                    man" for a place on the commission.
            On April 22 Speed was notified of his appointment as Secretary and Special Disbursing Agent of the
                        Commission.12 As such he was paid a compensation of $9.00 per
                    diem while actually employed, which included subsistence expenses, but he was allowed railroad fare
                    and other transportation expenses in addition to his compensation. As Special Disbursing Agent he
                    was required to give a bond in the sum of ten thousand dollars. He took the oath of office April 29.
            Completion of organization required the appointment of a chairman of the commission. Harrison
                    requested that papers be prepared for the appointment of John H. Baker of 
                        Goshen
                    , Indiana, a former Congressman, and a delegate to the Republican National Convention
                    that nominated Harrison the preceding year. Baker was commissioned April 26. On May 4 Noble asked
                    him to notify the department by telegram whether he accepted the appointment. "I do not
                    accept," was the reply sent on May 6 or 7.13
            
            
               
                  12 Noble to Speed, April 22, 1889, Office of Indian Affairs, Record
                        Letters Sent, No. 59, p. 428.
               
                        
                     13 Baker's commission was signed by Harrison and Noble but was
                            not delivered. It is In the Miscellaneous File, Appointment Division, Department of
                            Interior, National Archives, and in red ink bears the word, "Declined."
                            The commission is on paper seventeen by twenty-two inches, resembling somewhat a college
                            diploma, intended for mural decoration. It reads: "Benjamin Harrison, President of
                            the 
                                United States
                             of America. To all to whom these Presents shall come, Greeting: Know ye, That,
                            reposing special trust and confidence in the Integrity, Ability and Discretion of John H.
                            Baker of 
                                Goshen
                            , Indiana, I do appoint him to be a Commissioner to negotiate with the Cherokee
                            and other Indians for the cession to the 
                                United States
                             of certain lands, as provided in Section 14 of the Act of Congress approved
                            March 2, 1889, (Pub.-No. 155), since George D. Robinson, declined, and do authorize and
                            empower him to execute and fulfill the duties of that Office according to Law, and to hold
                            the said Office, with all the rights and emoluments thereunto legally appertaining, unto
                            him, the said John H. Baker, during the pleasure of the President of the 
                                United States
                             for the time being.
                        "In Testimony Whereof, I have caused these Letters to be made Patent, and the Seal
                            of the Department of the Interior to be hereunto affixed.
                        "Given under my hand at the City of 
                                Washington
                            , the twenty-sixth day of April in the year of our Lord one thousand eight
                            hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the 
                                United States
                             of America the one hundred and thirteenth.
                        By the President:
                        John W. Noble, Secretary of the Interior Benj. Harrison" The record of the
                            commission, being a copy thereof, is in the Department of Interior, Appointment Division,
                            Executive Commissions (Temporary), V, 118. Baker was appointed judge of the 
                                United States
                             District Court for Indiana by Harrison in 1892 and served until his retirement
                            in 1904.
                    
            
            
            Attention was taken promptly of a meritorious Republican, William Cassius Goodloe of
                            
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               . He had been a captain in the Union Army, had helped organize
                    the Republican party in 
                        Kentucky
                    , but had been none too well rewarded for his energetic and continual devotion to it.
                    Noble wrote to him on May 7: "The Commission will be ready to proceed by the first of June,
                    at the farthest; their. duties will occupy them off and on, for the summer, at least, and may
                    continue longer. … The appointment is deemed one rather of honor and trust, than for
                    emolument." Goodloe. immediately telegraphed his declination. On May 12 he wrote that his
                    "long absence from home on the National Committee during the campaign, disarranged my
                    business so, that it is imperative I should nol again leave for so long a time." Goodloe
                    might well have accepted the appointment and retired to the quiet West, for in November he and a
                    personal political enemy were killed in the post office at 
                        Lexington
                     "in one of the most sensational fights in the History of 
                        Kentucky
                    ."14
            
            Noble on May 20 wrote to S. J. R. McMiilan, who had been Chief Justice of the State Supreme Court of 
                        Minnesota
                     and had represented that. state in the 
                        United States
                     Senate. Noble said: "The chief inducement, of course, to one like yourself is
                    the opportunity to do a favor to the Government and benefit the Indians."15 "Regret my engagements prevent my accepting position on Cherokee Commission,16 was the reply McMillan sent May 23.
            In April and May, Senator Plumb of 
                        Kansas
                     had written letters strongly urging the appointment of John D. Miles of Lawrence, 
                        Kansas
                    , as a member of the commission." Miles had "nearly fifteen years of
                    continuous service as U.S. Indian agent" in the Indian Territorv.17 On
                    May 23, 1889, he and Samuel J. Crawford entered into a contract with the Cheyenne and Arapahoe to
                    represent them before commissioners 
                  
                     14 See R. S. Cotterill's sketch of Goodloe's life,
                                Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928–1936), VII (1931), 391–392.
                  
                     15 Noble to McMillan, May 20, 1889, Office of Indian Affairs, Record
                            Letters Sent, No. 60, p. 101; Telegram McMillan to Noble, May 23, 1889, Office of Indian
                            Affairs, 2942 Ind. Div., 1889.
                  
                     16 Plumb to Noble, April 7, 1889; Plumb to the President, May 26,
                            1889, Miscellaneous File, Appointment Division, Department of Interior, National Archives.
                  
                     17 See Miles’ letter of resignation, November 23, 1883,
                            Department of Interior, Appointment Division, Cheyenne and Arapahoe Agency.
               
                     of the 
                        United States
                    
                    et al., in certain land matters.18 Harrison appointed Miles a
                    member of the commission on June 5. Three days later he declined the appointment because he had been
                    "employed with others to represent before the Commission certain of the tribes."
            On June 14 Humphrey resigned from the commission because of "serious illness" that
                    developed after his acceptance of the appointment. Noble was reluctant to accept the resignation,
                    but on June 18 Humphrey telegraphed that his health would not permit him to recall it. The day
                    Humphrey resigned, Noble inquired if Lucius Fairchild, ex-governor of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , would be interested in being appointed a member. of the commission. "Uncle
                    Jerry." Rusk, Secretary of Agriculture and former governor of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , was in touch with Fairchild concerning the appointment and may have been instrumental
                    in securing it.19 Fairchild had passed the peak of his popularity in 
                        Wisconsin
                     polities, but like many of his contemporaries in political affairs, he profited by
                    being a veteran of the Union Army. "I will serve on the Commission if requested,"
                    Fairchild telegraphed Noble on June 17. The same day lie wrote that he would serve "because
                    the President and you desire it and because I do not feel at liberty to refuse to serve in such
                    capacity if the administration thinks I can be useful.20 Fairchild was
                    commissioned June 19.
            Noble on June 17 tendered an appointment to John F. Hartranft, twice governor. of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and a former postmaster at 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Hartranft requested twenty-four hours to consider "important
                    matters," and on June 20 gave his reply: "Please present my compliments to the
                    President and say that I will accept the appointment." The matter was further elucidated in
                    his letter to Noble on June 24:
            
               
                  18
                        Senate Executive Documents, 52 Cong., 2 Sess., no. 18 (serial no. 3055).
                        1–6, 206–207.
               
                  19 With the appointment papers is a green card Fairchild filled out
                        September 25, 1889, answering questions asked an "appointee by the President."
                        The card discloses that Fairchild "Enlisted private 1st Wis. Regt, Infy, 3 mos. Capt.
                        C. K, 1st reg. Wis. Infy. 3 mos. Major, Lt Col. and Col. 2nd Regt. Wis. Infy.—Brig.
                        Gen. vols. and Capt. 16th Reg. U. S. Infy." As to being wounded or disabled he wrote:
                        "Left arm amputated at 
                            Gettysburg
                        , Pa., July lst, 1863.
               
                  20 Fairchild to Noble, June 17, 1889, Miscellaneous File, Appointment
                        Division, Department of Interior, National Archives. The record of Fairchild's
                        commission is in Executive Commissions, V, 190, Department of Interior, Appointment
                    Division.
            
            
            
                    I have been indisposed for some time past, and had arranged to take a sea voyage from next
                        Saturday, the 29th inst. and had arranged my business to he gone some three or four weeks. As
                        this appointment will be likely to keep me still longer than that, I would like as much time as
                        possible to arrange my private matters; but having already made considerable progress in that
                        direction, I will not delay the Commission on that account. I had also made arrangements to go
                        with the Committee of the 9th Corps, of which I am Chairman, about the middle of July to select
                        the site of the Gen'l Reno Memorial at South Mountain, Md., to be dedicated on Sept.
                        14th; but, as the rest of the Committee can act in my absence, I would not delay my departure,
                        if the rest of the Commission are ready, or if any public interests would suffer by the
                    delay.
                
            Hartranft was commissioned June 21. Fairchild was named chairman of the commission about June 28.
                    Secret instructions21 were sent to the commission on July 6, and before the end
                    of the month members—Fairchild, Hartranft, and Wilson—were escorted
                    "into Tahlequah with honor."22
            
            On October 17, while the commission was in recess, Hartranft died. Fairchild and Wilson met at
                    Tahlequah on October 31 to resume negotiations with the Cherokee. The vacancy on the commission was
                    filled November 5 by the appointment of Warren G. Sayre of 
                        Wabash
                    , Indiana, who wrote to Noble two days later: 
                        You direct me to report in person to the Department at my earliest convenience. The notice of
                            appointment found me busily engaged in a term of court. There are matters here of pressing
                            concern, that can occupy my attention, all next week, but if it is imperative, I can arrange
                            to come at any time. You may write or wire me on receipt of this, when I must report. Had I sought the position, I might have been ready, at a
                            moment's notice—hut coming as it did, leaves some law suits on hand that
                            must be accommodated somehow.
                    
            
            Fairchild on November 18 wrote that Sayre was "a hard headed lawyer, pleasant and genial.
                    Has a lot of sound, hard horse-sense, a valuable acquisition."23
            
            
               
                  21 On March 12, 1890, about five-sixths of the "Instructions and
                        Suggestions" were transmitted by Noble to the Senate and are in the Senate
                            Executive Documents, 48 Cong., 1 Sess., no. 78 (serial no. 2686). The complete document
                        is in the Office of Indian Affairs, Land Letter Book, 184, pp. 165–258.
               
                  22 Cherokee Memorial, March, 1830, Library of Indian Office, Miscellaneous
                        Documents, 20877. Tahlequah was the capital of the Cherokee Nation.
               
                  23 Fairchild to "Frank," November 18, 1889, Fairchild
                        Papers, Library of 
                            Wisconsin
                         Historical Society, 
                            Madison
                        . 
                            Wisconsin
                        . Fairchild's wife, "Frances," in the family was called,
                        "Frank." Sayre was forty-five years old, was without military service in. the
                        Civil War, was a Republican strongly devoted to his party, had served in the State Senate of
                        Indiana, and later as Speaker of the House. He was known as the "House
                        Economist," and the "check valve" to superfluous legislation.
            
            
            During November and December the commission made an unsuccessful effort to purchase from the Cherokee
                    the six million acre tract of land known as the "Cherokee Outlet." Rentals paid by
                    the Cherokee Strip Live Stock Association for the lands amounted to two hundred thousand dollars a
                    year, and a cattle syndicate valued them at eighteen million dollars or three dollars an acre. The
                    commission offered only $1.25 an acre and would not reveal their secret instructions as
                    to how much more they could offer. As weeks went by, Fairchild's patience wore thin. He
                    became provoked ("Mad is no name for it."), yet the "d—d
                    whelps, rascals and boodles" who controlled affairs in the Cherokee Nation exhibited no
                    enthusiasm to sell the lands for $1.25 an acre.24
            
            The commission left Tahlequah toward the close of December. On January 1, 1890, Fairchild wrote the
                    following letter to President Harrison: 
                  
                     
                        Because I am not in physical condition to do the work I am compelled to withdraw from
                                    the Cherokee Commission. I therefore respectfully tender to you my resignation.
                        I have become much interested in the work of the Commission and regret not being able
                                    to continue a member.
                        Tending to you my sincere thanks for the honor conferred by the appointment, I remain
                        
                                    Respectfully your obedient servant
                                    Lucius Fairchild
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            By direction of the President, Noble on March 1 offered the chairmanship of the commission to Angus
                    Cameron, former senator. from 
                        Wisconsin
                    . It was not until March 10 that Cameron had his private business so arranged as to say
                    that he could accept the appointment. He was commissioned March 14. On April 5 he resigned
                    "on account of the continued illness of a member of lily family." This resignation
                    opened the way for the appointment of David Howell Jerome, former governor of 
                        Michigan
                    , who became the dominant figure in the work of the Cherokee Commission. Senator James
                    McMillan of 
                        Michigan
                     communicated with Jerome and on April 25 wrote the President saying that Jerome would
                    accept, the appointment. He added: "I desire to renew my assurances that ex-governor Jerome
                    will, if selected, prove 
                  
                     24 This subject is treated in a series of five articles by Berlin B.
                            Chapman, "How the Cherokees Acquired and Disposed of the Outlet," Chronicles of 
                                    Oklahoma
                                
                     . (
                                Oklahoma
                             City, 
                                Oklahoma
                            , 1921–), XV (1937), 30–49, 205–225,
                            291–321; XVI (1938), 36–51, 135–162.
               
                     to be an excellent member of the Commission and that
                    politically his appointment would be very acceptable to my State." Jerome was appointed a
                    member the next day25 and was subsequently named chairman of the commission. The
                    only letter by him in his appointment file consists of one sentence written on May 6 to Noble,
                    stating that he was returning his official oath, sworn to that day.
            The commission entered upon its work and in May concluded with the 
                        Iowa
                     the first of eleven agreements it made for the dissolution of reservations in what is
                    now the western half of 
                        Oklahoma
                    .26 Negotiations with the tribes were slower and more difficult than
                    Noble anticipated.27 The commission survived the administration of President
                    Harrison, but all the agreements it concluded came within his administration. Noble took up several
                    matters with the commission informally, or by private correspondence, and seemed to have been always
                    content with the commission and to have considered its judgment of high merit.28
            
            Secretary Hoke Smith, a Democrat from 
                        Georgia
                    , did not hold the commission in such high esteem. In a telegram to him from Saginaw, 
                        Michigan
                    , on Saturday, March 18, 1893, Jerome said: "Unless otherwise directed by you
                    by wire the Cherokee Commission will leave on Monday next for Ponca agency, 
                        Oklahoma
                    , to resume negotiations with the tribes on the east end of the Strip. Our address will
                    be Ponca agency where we hope to receive any instructions you desire to give."29 In a letter. to Smith on March 20, Jerome stated that since he had heard
                    nothing from him to the contrary he would proceed that evening to join his associates.30
                    
                  
                     25 Jerome's commission of April 26, 1890, is recorded in
                            Executive Commissions, V, 202, Department of Interior, Appointment Division.
                  
                     26 Speed received the appointment as District Attorney of the 
                                United States
                             Territorial Court of 
                                Oklahoma
                             and submitted his resignation as Secretary and Special Disbursing Agent of the
                            Commission. He was replaced as of May 24 by Charles S. King, whom Jerome recommended as the
                            successor. Noble to King, May 24, 1890, Department of Interior, Appointment Division, Letter
                            Book, XXX, 365–366; Noble to Speed, May 24, 1890, ibid., 367.
                  
                     27 On March 15, 1800, Noble wrote to Cameron: "I think there
                            is not great difficulty in the way now, and that you will soon finish the work after you and
                            your associates have entered upon the field." Ibid., XXVI,
                            417–418.
                  
                     28 See, for example, Noble to Peel, January 23, 1893, Congressional Record, 52 Cong., 2 Sess., 2136.
                  
                     29 Telegram from Jerome to Smith, Office of Indian Affairs, 2107 Ind.
                            Div., 1893.
               
                     In a telegram to Jerome the next day, addressed to Saginaw,
                    Smith said: 
                        Your telegram was received Sunday night, giving no time for investigation. To announce a
                            purpose of acting without giving time here to consider its propriety, was practically to
                            determine the matter yourselves. I trust you have not acted with the haste which your
                            telegram indicates.31
                  
                    Since the commission was already en route, Assistant Secretary Chandler directed that
                    necessary funds be placed to its credit for continuance of the work. The commission made its final
                    report on August 21. On November 7, Smith said that by order of President Cleveland the Commission
                    "is hereby dissolved."32
            
            The Cherokee Commission is a suitable subject for a case study of political appointments in the
                    administration of Harrison the Second. To know well the history of applications and appointments
                    concerning this commission, is to be familiar with the trend of affairs in passing out the
                    patronage. According to the appointment files, no person who made direct application for membership
                    on the commission secured it. Governors and senators, recently out of office, were on the favored
                    list. Senators and representatives in office were on the alert to secure recognition for their
                    leading supporters at home. President Harrison and Secretary Noble tended to "work down
                    from the top" until they secured two Republicans who would accept and retain membership in
                    the commission. Archival records, however faithfully kept and accurately used, do not reveal all the
                    process and price that brought the beck and nod; but the light is sufficiently clear to discern the
                    movement, even some of the motives, in appointing persons to offices of trust and profit.
            
               
                  30 Letter of March 20, 1893, Office of Indian Affairs, 2323 Ind. Div.,
                        1893.
               
                  31 Telegram from Smith to Jerome, March 21, 1893, Office of Indian
                        Affairs, Record Letters Sent, No. 78, p. 322.
               
                  32 Berlin B. Chapman, "The Final Report of the Cherokee
                        Commission," Chronicles of 
                                Oklahoma
                            
                  , XIX (1941), 356–367.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            A STORY OF THE SCOTCH SETTLEMENT JEFFERSON COUNTY, INDIANA
            Mary Hill
            Following the Napoleonic Wars conditions were deplorable in 
                        Scotland
                     as much as in most countries of Europe. Times were hard, food was scarce and people
                    were desperate. Many an adventurous soul wanted to learn about the New World and wished to bring up
                    his family in the 
                        United States
                    . So, we find, between 1815 and 1820, a goodly number of Scotchmen settled in the
                    northeast part of 
                        Milton
                     Township and the southeast part of 
                        Shelby
                     Township of 
                        Jefferson County
                    , Indiana, and the west part of Pleasant Township, 
                        Switzerland
                     County, Indiana. They had come overland to 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and then down the 
                        Ohio
                     River to 
                        Vevay
                     and 
                        Madison
                    . It is said the first ones settled here because the land reminded them of their own
                    beloved 
                        Scotland
                    . They wrote home and persuaded others to come. Each farmer had a small place, hilly and
                    rugged, heavily wooded, with small streams and springs. He erected a small cabin, later putting up a
                    brick or stone house, started an orchard, raised sheep and cattle, and cleared enough land for his
                    crops. His wife tended the garden, spun the flax or wool for their clothing, tended the bees, made
                    cheese and soap, and gathered the wild herbs and roots for medicine. These settlers were a. sturdy,
                    thrifty, industrious, and God-fearing people. One of their first tasks was to build a church, their
                    "kirk." Three Culbertson brothers, each gave an acre of land, which is still used
                    for the church and graveyard. The church is now in 
                        Switzerland
                     County, while the cemetery is across the road in 
                        Jefferson County
                    . Many of the stones have the Scotch thistle and give the birthplace of the person. The
                    church is called "Caledonia" and the neighborhood the "Scotch
                    Settlement."
            The following letter was written from Caledonia, 
                        Jefferson County
                    , Indiana, January 22, 1837, by William Morton to Thomas Bishop in 
                        Scotland
                    , urging him to come to this country. Bishop evidently took his friend's advice
                    for we find him in this country. He and his wife, Elizabeth Ingalls, came to America on the steamer "
                        New York
                    ." Bishop was  twenty-six years of age and
                    his wife twenty-two. His naturalization papers were taken out in Trimble County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and they state that he had been a resident of the 
                        United States
                     for five years. three years in Indiana and two in 
                        Kentucky
                    . His last years, however, were spent in the Scotch Settlement, for he and his wife were
                    buried in the graveyard at Caledonia. The stones bear the inscription "Thomas Bishop,
                    1811–1880" and "Elizabeth, wife of Thomas Bishop,
                    1815–1872."
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Jan. 22, 1837.
                                
                        Dear Thomas;
                        Yours of the 15th October came to hand last week. … you wish information
                                    from me about coming hear, with that I will most cherfuley comply as far as I am
                                    able in the first place you must lay in provisions for 8 weeks oatmeal and cakes
                                    baked thick and well fired potatos, butter tea, sugar a curran lof or two. if you
                                    intend to visit Cannada you must come by N. York and come on to bufalo, leave your
                                    luggage ther and take a steam bot for Cannada, on your return to come here come up
                                    the lake to 
                                        Cleveland
                                    , then take the cannal to the 
                                        Ohio
                                     river, then to 
                                        Madison
                                     but if you intend to come direct here come by 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     and Piltsburg you can come that way a week sooner and fuley as cheap
                                    ther is canal and railroad to Pitts. then down the 
                                        Ohio
                                     river if you can get a ship to Phila. it would be better if not you can
                                    very easy get from N. York to 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     there are some things you could bring out and have a good profit on if
                                    you can get past the custom hous sutch as womens dress handerchefs murine shawls
                                    blanket shawls and blankets particularly blankets would be as good as anything they
                                    sel for ten dollars a pair and all wearing apparel as exempt from duty you can pas
                                    them for your own some blew cots [coats] fashionably made would do well. Brother
                                    James wishes you to bring the works of a 8 day clock for him my sister wants two
                                    large blanket shawls black and red square checks. There is another way I would
                                    propose for you to com and I think the best and most profitable that is by New
                                    orleans and bring a large quantity of crockery I will give you some of its prices
                                    here; printed teas, 6 cups and saucers, 7.5 cents; printed plates 7 inch, 75 cents
                                    [?]; 12 inch, 1 dollar: teapot a dollar; common ware, 6 cups &
                                    saucers, 37 cents; plates, 7 inch, 37 cents; bowls of all sizes a good article there
                                    will be little or no expense on it to orleans from that to 
                                        Madison
                                     is 50 cents per cwt. ther would be some duty on it at orleans but not
                                    mutch and your own Dassage to 
                                        Madison
                                     if you come [illegible] brother Andrew would like to have a light iron
                                    plow if you come this way you would likely have to go to Liverpool for a ship and
                                    the best time would be in December or January You need not be afraid of the winter
                                    pasage for once you get off the British Coast the wether is often better in winter
                                    then in spring you must now take choice of the 3 different ways, but I think the
                                    Cannada will be the most expensive and orleans the most profitable way for you, tel
                                    your brother that I received his letter by Alex Graham with a new silver coin in it
                                    for whitch I esteam him verry mutch  I was about
                                    to writ to him when I received yours then I thought I would write you first Last
                                    summer Thos. Graham quit baking and bought a farm 5 miles from 
                                        Madison
                                     and has been living on it since. Alex Graham, and family had a passage
                                    of 9 weeks and 3 days owing to bad weather and an unscilful Captain about the first
                                    of September they all arrived at 
                                        Madison
                                     in good health but it did not last long for in 2 days after their
                                    mother got sick and in two weeks she died that discouraged them all they are
                                    dissatisfied with the country but cant give no other reason for it only they like 
                                        Scotland
                                     better. Thomas dont like to farm mutch he intends to bake again he
                                    offered his brothers the farm for 3 years rent free but they wont accept of it. W.
                                    Graham is working for W. Ween, has 12 dollars a month he says he will return to 
                                        Scotland
                                     again the rest of them are on the farm with Thomas. I dont know what
                                    they intend to do. A few days after I wrote your brother last I received a letter
                                    from your friend in 
                                        New York
                                     State whitch I was mutch pleased with I will give you a copy of it
                                    perhaps you may cal on him arid take a good look of his daughter your brother talked
                                    of coming to see her but got discouraged at me not talking faverabule of the
                                    american ladies but he need not misunderstand me for I have very little scil 2nd she
                                    is part Scotch and you know I am very parshal to them 1 dont know how far he is from 
                                        New York
                                     but if you go there you can soon find out.
                     
                  
               
                
            [The letter of John Eishop follows:]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Argyle, N.Y.
                           
                                    24 Feby, 1836
                                
                        Dear Sir;
                        Yours of the 24th of October last never come to hand untill the 16th instant this was
                                    on account of having a wrong direction and it was nearly by accident I heard of it
                                    as the postoffice whitch it came to is ten miles from where I live the object of
                                    your adress is to obtain information respecting myself & relations in this
                                    country for the purpose of giving information concerning us to friends in 
                                        Scotland
                                    . I shall most cheerfully comply with your requist and give you as
                                    distinct an account as I can. My father's name was WILLIAM BISHOP, he was a
                                    stone cutter to trade he left 
                                        Scotland
                                     came to America in the year 1774 in company with two men of the name of
                                    Gowans they parted from eatch other as I have been informed in the city of 
                                        New York
                                     and my father went northward into the interior of York State, the two
                                    Gowans into 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    , the certificate my father brought with him bears datt from the Parish
                                    of West Calder in the county of Mid Lothian, North Britain. As the American
                                    revolutionary war comenced shortly after he arrived in this country he thought it
                                    best not to settle himself in the world till it was over accordingly he did not get
                                    married untill the year 1787 when he was married to my mother by whom he had three
                                    children, two sons, of whom I am the oldest, and one daughter. I was born in May
                                    1788 my mother died when I was 12 vews old my father never married again and died
                                    twenty one years ago from family afflictions and woraldly losses my father was kept
                                    always in low circumstances as  to woraldly
                                    property my mother was for maney years previous to her death afflicted with a cancer
                                    in her breast whitch rendered her unable for business and cost a great deal for
                                    medical aid and attendance, my parents though poor in this world wer always
                                    respectable.
                        I am in the 48th year of my age have been married 23 years & have but one
                                    child a daughter who is now 21 years of age, my brother & sister are both
                                    married and has eatch of them large families, my brother lives in the state of 
                                        Ohio
                                    . my sister in the western part of york state. as to worldly
                                    circumstances I am neather poor or ritch I own 100 acres of land and by industry and
                                    economy can make a comfortable living and ought therfor to be contented and
                                    thankful. Last summer I received three letters from friends in 
                                        Scotland
                                     people of whom I had no knowledge whatever for the correspondence my
                                    father & his people in 
                                        Scotland
                                     was broken off hefore my remembrance & I never saw but one
                                    letter that came from them one of the above mentioned letters was from a John
                                    Bishop, from one of my uncles whose name was John Bishop of Foulsshilds, and from
                                    the information he gives me I think he is my 2d cousin he says his father &
                                    grandfather were both of the same name with himself that his grandfather died thirty
                                    years ago & his father about three years ago. I presume this is the same
                                    with your correspondence. another of these letters was from a William Hunter who
                                    says he is a full cousin of my own & he gives me a full account of my
                                    grandfathers descendants, he dates his letter from Raw Camps Hinknewton near
                                    Edinburgh, the third of said letters was from a William Bishop of West Calder and
                                    appears to be a very distant relation. I have written two letters to them but have
                                    not yet received any returns from them. when you write home to your correspondent
                                    you had better let them know what information you have got and especially where I
                                    live for their letters came with a wrong direction and it was not until they were
                                    advertised in a newspaper that I heard of either them or you. I think from what I
                                    can learn the people of 
                                        Scotland
                                     and [illegible] errors respecting America, the first is they appear to
                                    me to be in a great measure ignorant of the geography of this country they do not
                                    consider the vast distance people may be from one another here. had your
                                    correspondent known that you and mc are eight or nine hundred miles apart he would
                                    hardly employed you to find me out. The William Bishop, West Calder, who has written
                                    me has a brother caled Peter Bishop, living in Upper Cannada, and he had been
                                    writting to him to call upon me, not considering that him and me are not less than
                                    three or four hundred miles from each other. The second error whitch I think they
                                    are labouring under is that because land is plenty here they think the people must
                                    all be wealthy. this is a great mistake. If you should ever have another occasion to
                                    write to me direct to John Bishop, Argyle, washington Co. 
                                        New York
                                    . In case my letters whitch I sent to 
                                        Scotland
                                     should have miscarried let friends there know how to direct them to me,
                                    I am sir with the greatest respect,
                        
                                    Yours,
                                    JOHN BISHOP.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Since I commenced this letter to you there has been a number of  people aplying to me for to get you to bring out things
                                    to them & call on their friends the following notes is from the Rev. Mr.
                                    Horn, when you write Mr. Bishop desire him if he be in Edinburgh lo call on Mrs.
                                    Horn's sister, Mrs. David Lindsay, 65 Lawnston Place, and ask if she has
                                    any word to us, and also if he could send word to Miss Miekle, Cornwalk, Dr.
                                    Miekle's daughter that he designs to come here and that he will convey any
                                    word to us. Your attention to the above & obliged, your friend, W. Horn, (be
                                    patient not half done yet). Thomas Graham's wife wants a blanket shawl;
                                    brother George wants a german flut with some sets of music for it and sonl wants a
                                    sut of blue cloth what would you think of looking some of the Panbrokers shops for
                                    clothes I think you could fit some of our half yankeys there and have some profit.
                                    You might bring a good number of sacks they would do well & some moleskin
                                    trousers som trinkets and toe pieces for shoes. Dont bring any guns nor watches nor
                                    Crystal tumblers nor dram glasses they are all cheaper here than there. if you think
                                    [illegible] the Crockery perhaps Andrew Mungdl could instruct you how & what
                                    to get & I know of nothing that would pay you better. if you sail for 
                                        New York
                                     get a ship at Greenock or Leath if you go to Liverpool you would likely
                                    get into a ship ful of Irish passengers & they are the most disagreeable
                                    & most depraved wretches you ever was amongst. if you go by orleans you will
                                    shun that evil. there is yet another good article to bring that I have not mentioned
                                    that is Lots of Cash but it must be Gold or bills of exchange there is a great 10s
                                    on silver without it is dollars they are worth 6 [?] shillings B one
                                    penny; a souverin is worth 6 [?] dollars & 80 cents you need not
                                    bring any seeds the Climate dont sut them thos that I brought dun no good. Dont wish
                                    to put yourself to mutch troubk about all them requests that is made.
                        If you should not come out this spring & still want information about it let
                                    me know what it is & I will attend to it with the greatest of pleasure. I am
                                    mutch obliged to you for your kind offer to bring me one of my old sweethearts it
                                    would be very acceptable but I doubt it would be a harder task for you them all the
                                    other articles which I have mentioned. I wish to be remembered to your brother
                                    & sisters & old sweethearts & all other friends give my
                                    respects to Jannet Ingals & tel her I am obliged to for her respects to me
                                    in John's letter give my respects to my friends in Blackburn & tell
                                    Miss Prentace that I have forgot altogether about that half promise. If you should
                                    be troubled with sea sickness get a broad belt & put it around your body
                                    about the lower part of your stomack & lace it very tight perhaps it give
                                    you some relief. I think that is all now.
                        
                                    I remain, Yours truley,
                                    W. MORTON.
                                
                         If you dont come pleas write. Dont bring the plow. W.M. Addressed to Mr.
                                    Thomas Bishop  Whiteburn, Lincthgow County, 
                                        Scotland
                                    .Mar. 19, 1837.
                     
                  
               
                
            A letter. written to
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Mr. Thonias Bishop
                              Midseat Foulshield by Whitburn
                              15 Main St. Gorbals
                              
                                 
                                    Glasgow
                                 
                              
                           
                                    June 26, 1837
                                
                        Sir
                        I beg to acquaint you that a ship sails from Greenock on July 20th next An
                                    Advertisement appeared both in the Herald of Friday, and of today—I sent
                                    for a copy of the newspaper, but they were all sold, so I have written down a
                                    correct Copy of the Advertisement, which you will read on the other side of this
                                    letter
                        I might have called on William Morrison here, but I did not see what I could enquire
                                    about, as you only can know what luggage YOU mean to take with you
                        If you mean to go with this ship, you have little time to lose.
                        
                                    Your mo obed servant
                                    J. S. Drummond
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Drummond failed to write the advertisement on the back of the letter.
            A letter written to
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Thomas Bishop, Farmer Midseat, Foulshield By Whitburn
                              15 Main St. Gorbals
                              Grasglow,
                           
                                    July 14, 1837
                                
                        Deer Thomas,
                        In case I should be out of town on Monday first—I called at Wm. Morrisons
                                    office today—when a young man (I suppose a Clerk) told me that it is
                                    fixed—that the ship 
                                        New York
                                     will be dispatched on Saturday the 22d instant—so that you
                                    would require to be in 
                                        Glasgow
                                     on Friday afternoon to get matters arranged here—and you
                                    should send a cart with your luggage on Friday night to be in 
                                        Glasgow
                                     about 4 or 5 o'clock in the morning, and you could then take
                                    it down to the Broomelaw & get the things put right yourselves—to
                                    be ready to leave the Broomelaw at 6 o'clock—you would require
                                    to go at the same time, or else you may be too late
                        Or Another plan,—in case you should be detained, you might be more safe to
                                    be here and have your luggage here on Friday forenoon, and set off for Greenock with
                                    the whole, in the afternoon—-you could easily manage this by send off the
                                    cart of Thursday night & set off yourselves also on Friday morning, so as to
                                    be in 
                                        Glasgow
                                     rather before the cart comes—I think this last plan is the
                                    safest—you had better be in Greenock on Friday night than perhaps be too
                                    late on Saturday
                        If the luggage & yourselves are here on Friday anytime before  12 o'clock you have plenty of time to go to
                                    Greenock in the afternoon—
                        If you were going to have much luggage, you could take the cart to Greenock by the
                                    toll road—but if you have only some chests & boxes &
                                    things of that kind, you will easily get them into the same boat with yourselves.
                        
                                    I am
                                    Your Obed servant
                                    J. S. Drummond
                                
                        Friday night 9 o'clock July 14, 1837
                     
                  
               
                
            Thomas Bishop's Naturalization Papers
            
                    Commonwealth of 
                            Kentucky
                        
               
                    Trimble County & Circuit Oct term 1842
                    Thomas Bishop personally appeared in open court and took the oath to support the Constitution of
                        the 
                            United States
                        ; and also upon oath duly administered absolutely and entirely renounced and abjured
                        all allegiance and fidelity to every foreign prince, potentate, state or sovereignty whatever
                        and particularly to queen Victoria of Great Britain of whose realm he was late a subject and it
                        appearing to the satisfaction of the court from record evidence that the said Thomas Bishop more
                        than two years ago before the Jefferson circuit court for the state of Indiana declared his
                        intention to renounce and abjure his allegiance &c And by the oath of Rufus King that
                        the said Thomas Bishop has been a resident of the 
                            United States
                         five years last past; and further by the oath of said King that he has resided in
                        the state of 
                            Kentucky
                         for two years past and that he has behaved as a man of good moral character
                        attached to the principles of the Constitution of the 
                            United States
                         and well disposed to the good order and happenings of the same And thereupon the
                        said Thomas Bishop is admitted to all the privileges and immunities of an american citizen under
                        the Constitution and laws of the 
                            United States
                        
               
                    Commonwealth of 
                            Kentucky
                        
               
                    Trimble County & Circuit
                    I William Samuel clerk of the circuit court for the County of Trimble in the state of 
                            Kentucky
                         do certify that the above is a true copy from the records in my office
                    In Testimony whereof I have here unto set my name and affixed a scrall (there being no seal
                        procured for said office) in the town of 
                            Bedford
                         this 14th day of February 1813 And in the 51st Year of the Commonwealth
                    W. Samuel Clk
                
         
         
         
            LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS
            William G. Carleton is a member of the political science department at the University of
                            
                  Florida, Gainesville, Florida
               .
            Elfrieda Lang is the secretary and assistant to the editor of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            L. R. Lind is a member of the Latin and Greek department at the University of 
                        Kansas
                    , Lawrence, 
                        Kansas
                    .
            Berlin B. Chapman is a member of the history department at the 
                        Oklahoma
                     Agricultural and Mechanical College, Stillwater, 
                        Oklahoma
                    .
            Mary Hill is a resident of 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana.
            R. Carlyle Buley is professor of history at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            F. Lee Crippen is a member of the history department at 
                        Berea
                     College, 
                  Berea, Kentucky
               .
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Threescore Years and Ten, A Narrative of the First Seventy Years of Eli Lilly and
                        Company, 1875–1946. By Roscoe Collins Clark. (Privately Printed, 1916, Eli Lilly
                    an(! Company, pp. xii, 132.)
            
               Bullets by the Billion. By Wesley W. Stout. (Chrys'er Corporation,
                            
                  Detroit, Michigan
               , 1916, pp. 77.)
            Although these two books are different, they have one thing in common. They arc histories of business
                    corporations, not biographies of individuals or histories of significant movements. As corporations
                    hate come to play increasingly important roles in the life of the nation and in the lives of the
                    people, it is quite appropriate that historical accounts should be written about them.
            The history of Eli Lilly and Company, a very successful and well-known Indiana manufacturer. of
                    pharmaceuticals, is a narrative of seventy years. It seems to be a brief but accurate record of its
                    remarkable growth from a very small enterprise to a large millionaire corporation. It is well
                    written and excellently illustrated, but there are portions of the story that need lengthier and
                    more detailed treatment. The development of insulin, in which Lilly has played such a notable part,
                    and the more recent production of penicillin may be mentioned in this connection. The entire work is
                    characterized by a modesty, which is a wholesome relief from the more usual promotional attitude of
                    the business world, but which in this instance actually minimizes a significant story. An account of
                    two or three limes the length of this little book would be welcomed. On. reason for the excellence
                    of the work was the enlistment of professional historical assistance. A less desirable feature is
                    the rather. obvious slanting of the work towards the personnel of the corporation, with respect to
                    the morale of the large number of new employees which recent expansion has necessitated. Oddly
                    enough, the excellent labor record of the company, and its insurance and retirement plans are almost
                    neglected in the narrative.
            The second little volume is a narrative of the manufacture of bullets by the Chrysler Corporation in
                    its 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, plant during the last World War. It is a story of the conversion of an
                    automobile assembly plant to the production of a very different article in which it had no
                    experience.  The change was made under pressure of war demands.
                    After the need for bullets decreased, the plant was used to recondition tanks and trucks and
                    manufacture firebombs, but this is not included in this narrative. This volume is also excellently
                    illustrated.
         
         
            
               Lake Erie. By Harlan Hatcher. The American Lake Series. Edited
                    by Milo M. Quaife. (Bobbs-Merrill Company, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana, 1945, pp. 416. Illustrations and maps. $3.50.)
            
               Lake Erie completes the American Lake Series as far as the Great Lakes are
                    involved. Those who are interested in the great inland seas of North America may well take pride in
                    the fact that their history has been done in a way which should be acceptable both to the historian
                    and to the general reader. These five volumes will for many years be both the basic outline and the
                    point of departure of the history of the Lakes and their environs.
            Lake Erie was the last of the Lakes to be discovered by the French; it was destined to be the first
                    to become the center of a commercial-industrial empire. Its story is here told in broad panorama
                    with the fine perspective and accurate close ups made possible by sound knowledge of historical
                    background and intimate acquaintance with its life of today.
            Early chapters introduce the lake, its discovery, early settlements and history. High lights in this
                    section are the accounts of Perry's ships and victory, and the empire of Colonel Talbot,
                    hermit-lord of the North Shore. Sloops, brigs, schooners, steamers, and the problems of navigation
                    fill a half dozen chapters. Part II sketches mid-century cities, relates the story of the
                    Confederate conspiracy of Johnson's Island, solves the ore-unloading problem with
                    Dart's buckets, and tells of wine and fish. The industrial age appears with the wedding of
                    coal and iron. Follow the ironmen, big shippers and modern ships for ore, and the development of
                    great cities with their polyglot populations, smoke, refuse, and culture.
            Different readers will favor different chapters and scenes. The reviewer particularly enjoyed the
                    trip "Aboard a Lake Freighter" and the descriptions of the less familial. smaller
                    settlements and peoples; of islands with traditions,  of Jack
                    Miner's Bird Sanctuary, of vineyards and "characters." The reader may
                    think he is familiar in general with the scene but he will be surprised at how much that is
                    interesting is new; at how much remains to be seen and thought about. Mr. Hatcher has done well,
                    both by his subject and his readers.
            The literature of travel and description has been voluminous in our history; it will continue to be
                    so. It is just as well perhaps, considering ships, roads and facilities, that ten million
                    Mid-Americans do not read the five volumes on the Great Lakes by authors Landon, Nute, Quaife,
                    Pound, and Hatcher, aided and abetted by the Bobbs-Merrill Company. Were they to do so, however,
                    they would have a better understanding, a more developed appreciation, a greater capacity for
                    enjoyment, of an important segment of the epic that has been and is America.
            R. Carlyle Buley
         
         
            
               The Last Trek of the Indians. By Grant Foreman. (University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 
                        Chicago
                    , c. 1946, pp. 382. Maps. $4.00.)
            A historical narrative and an evaluation of the policy of Indian Removal are embodied in this volume.
                    It is written by a recognized authority who has worked for more than forty years with the Indians
                    and their history. It is limited to northern Indians and is a companion volume to the
                    author's Indian Removal: The Emigration, of the Five Civilized Tribes,
                    which describes the elimination of the Indians from the South.
            This volume is of interest to persons concerned with the history of Indiana and the Middle West for
                    it traces the origin of the plan to remove the Indians to the west of the 
                        Mississippi
                     River, the emigration of the Indians from the Middle West, and the experiences of these
                    tribes in the 
                        Kansas
                     and 
                        Oklahoma
                     area. The author devotes special chapters to the Potawatomi and the Miami, which are of
                    particular interest to Indiana.
            The story of the negotiation of the various treaties is briefly sketched, and the gathering of the
                    Indians for the journey and the migration from the land of their fathers is narrated for a tribe or
                    a portion of a tribe, one after  another. The treaty was
                    generally not complimentary to the government or its agents, but occasionally a glimpse of the more
                    sordid relationship between traders and the tribe is given. The author in reality only hints at this
                    phase of the subject but he does indicate that very bad conditions existed in the upper 
                        Wabash
                     Valley in Indiana. The narrative of the journey from the former home to the new region
                    in the West becomes monotonous after two or three have been read. The migration of the band of
                    Potawatomi which was described in The Trail of Death was only worse than the
                    others in the degree to which sickness and death characterized the journey.
            The second part of the book describes the experience of the Indians after their removal. They were
                    not permitted to remain in 
                        Missouri
                     or 
                        Kansas
                    , but were required to move again to the Indian Territory which became the state of 
                        Oklahoma
                    . All the debilitating effects of a forced removal were repeated and the progress
                    towards the white man's civilization was too frequently sacrificed in order that the
                    Indians might be placed on less desirable land.
            The entire volume tells of the greed, the inhumanity, and the aggressiveness, not of the Indians, but
                    of the whites, a record which IS a serious blot upon our national honor. There was cheating,
                    horse-stealing, whiskey-selling and de. bauchery, even land stealing. In contrast, it tells of the
                    suffering and patience of the Indians, of their adoption of agricultural life, and of improvements
                    in their. homes when they could keep away from intoxicating liquor. Rather generally, liquor became
                    the curse of the Indian. Although Helen Hunt Jackson is not mentioned, one is reminded of the title
                    of her volume, A Century of Dishonor.
            The volume seems to open a field for. further investigation rather than to exhaust it. More detailed
                    studies of individual tribes, of particular negotiations, migrations, and of the experiences in the
                    new home seem in order. An extensive amount of historical material is revealed in the footnotes and
                    bibliography. Although the format of the book gives evidence that it was published in war time, it
                    is a valuable addition to the historical literature of the Middle West.
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
         
            
               Via Western Express and Stagecoach. By Oscar Osburn Winter. (
                        Stanford
                     University Press, 
                        Stanford
                     University, 
                        California
                    , 1945, pp. xi, 158. Index, maps, and illustrations. $3.00.)
            This is the latest of the popular 
                        Stanford
                     University Press publications on the romantic aspects of west-coast history. In this
                    work the more serious economic and financial treatments (as well as the documentation) of the
                    author's earlier Express and Stagecoach Days in 
                            California
                        
                have been omitted. Gold, the coming of the express, "Knights of the
                    Lash," road agents, the "Butterfield Overland Mail," and the
                    "Battle of the Giants" for control of transportation and express are here
                    described and discussed in ten brief chapters written in lively and readable style; much source
                    material is incorporated in the text. Two dozen illustrations of contemporary vintage, decorative
                    illustrations for covers, title pages and chapter headings, and large end maps add to the
                    attractiveness of this well designed and beautifully printed 7 × 10 inch book.
            Dr. Winther, member of the Indiana University Department of History, is quite at home in the history
                    of the Far West. At present he is on leave with a 
                        Huntington
                     Library fellowship, working on some larger projects on the history of the Pacific
                    Coast.
            R. Carlyle Buley
         
         
            
               Seargent S. Prentiss: Whig Omto,. of the Old South. By Dallas C. Dickey. (
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 
                  Baton Rouge,
                            Louisiana
               , 1945, pp. xiv, 422.
                    Illustrations and bibliography. $4.00.)
            The name of Seargent S. Prentiss looms large in the fourth and fifth decades of the nineteenth
                    century but prior to the writing of this volume no one had attempted to portray his total career.
                    Dr. Dickey's research has been so thorough and exhaustive and his interpretations have been
                    so impartial that it seems unlikely that his task ever will need to be redone. He is just as free
                    and frank in explaining the vices and shortcomings of Prentiss as in interpreting his virtues.
            The short periods which Prentiss served in the 
                        Mississippi
                     legislature and in the 
                        United States
                     Congress were  enough to convince him that his
                    interests lay not in office-holding but in the pursuit of his legal career. But he gave unstintingly
                    of his oratorical abilities to the support or others in political campaigns, sometimes greatly to
                    the detriment of his health. His oratorical powers in eulogy and invective were at a premium in time
                    of political campaign. He was always at ease on the platform, be it a formal occasion in a great
                    auditorium or an open-air meeting following a barbecue, easily adapting himself to whatever audience
                    he was addressing. After a Whig barbecue in October, 1848, where oratory prevailed for six hours and
                    Prentiss was the last speaker of the day, the Natchez Courier said of his efforts:
                    "For two hours ht held the audience as by a magic spell … Time, place, and
                    difference of opinion, all seemed to be forgotten" (p. 333).
            Responsibility for the debts of friends whose notes he had endorsed, the hard time in business in the
                    years following 1837, and poor financial investments in property in Vicksburg brought in the
                    1840's financial ruin from which he was never able completely to extricate himself. The
                    greatest tragedy of his life was that his addiction to strong drink shortened his life span.
            When Prentiss went to 
                        Mississippi
                     in 1827, following his Yankee rearing in 
                        Maine
                    , he expected to spend only a few years in the South before returning to New 
                        England
                    . As his professional career began to develop, however, he became convinced that lie had
                    wider opportunities in the South. Although he never became a continuous and vigorous defender of
                    slavery, as early as 1836 he was defending it and declaring in letters to his family in 
                        Maine
                     that the chief source of friction on the subject was the fulminations of the
                    "meddling" abolitionists (pp. 77–78). In this connection it should be
                    noted also that he opposed the "fire-eaters" of the South. The idea of dissolution
                    of the Union was abhorrent to him and the preservation of the country undivided became a familiar
                    theme to be found in many of his addresses.
            The author's interest is so bound up in the oratory of his subject that he sometimes stops
                    short of what the general reader's interest may be. For example, in February, 1847,
                    Prentiss gave one of the greatest occasional speeches of his life, his Irish Famine speech. It was
                    delivered in 
                        New Orleans
                    
                     upon the same platform from which Henry Clay had spoken. This
                    was a great oration in its imagery and appeal, its beauty and pathos. The reader is told what 
                        New York
                     City, 
                        Boston
                    , and some other cities did in matters of relief for 
                        Ireland
                     but is left to guess whether Prentiss’ speech brought any favorable response
                    in 
                        New Orleans
                    .
            The format, printing, and editorial work maintain the high standard of excellence that have been
                    established in the Southern Biography Series.
            Lee F. Crippen
         
         
            WANTED—COUNTY HISTORIES
            The Indiana University Library is attempting to add to its present holdings on Indiana History all of
                    the Indiana county histories and atlases that have been published. If any of the readers of the Indiana Magazine of History have county histories or atlases which they desire to
                    dispose of, please write Miss Irene Ryan, Indiana University Library, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, giving the author and title of the volume and the price which they would
                    expect to receive. We are particularly interested in the following: 
                  John M. Gresham, Biographical and Historical Souvenir for the Counties of 
                                    Clark
                                , 
                                    Crawford
                                , 
                                    Harrison
                                , 
                                    Floyd
                                , 
                                    Jefferson
                                , 
                                    Jennings
                                , 
                                    Scott
                                , and 
                                    Washington
                                , Indiana …
                  John Collett, Map of 
                                    Crawford County
                                , Indiana, and reduced sketch of Wyandotte Cave.
                  Alva Otis Fulkerson, History of 
                                    Daviess
                                 County, Indiana.
                  Robert B. Warder, Map of 
                           Dearborn,
                                        Ohio
                         and 
                                    Switzerland
                                 Counties, Indiana
                  
                  
                     Atlas of 
                                    Dearborn
                                 County. Indiana, from actual surveys by D. L. Lake and B. N. Griffing
                            …
                  
                  
                     History of 
                                    Dearborn
                                 and 
                                    Ohio
                                 Counties, Indiana…
                  Archibald Shaw, History of 
                                    Dearborn
                                 County, Indiana.
                  
                     A Genealogical and Biographical Record of 
                                    Decatur
                                . County, Indiana.
                  J. H. Beers, & Co., Atlas of 
                                    Decatur
                                 County, Indiana.
                  F. E. Mulford, Plat Book of 
                                    Decatur
                                 County, Indiana.
                  Lewis Albert Harding, History of 
                                    Decatur
                                 County, Indiana.
                  Ira Ford, et al, History of Northeast Indiana; 
                                    LaGrange
                                , 
                                    Steuben
                                , 
                                    Noble
                                , and 
                                    DeKalb
                                 Counties, 2 volumes.
                  
                     
                        
                                    DeKalb County
                                , Indiana, Atlas.
                  
                     Histoyy of 
                                    DeKalb County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1885).
                  
                     History of 
                                    DeKalb County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1914).
                  
                     Atlas of 
                                    Delaware
                                 County, Indiana.
                  Thomas B. Helm, History of 
                                    Delaware
                                 County, Indiana.
                  Frank D. Haimbaugh, History of 
                                    Delaware
                                 County, Indiana.
                  General William Harrison Kemper, Twentieth Century History of 
                                    Delaware
                                 County, Indiana.
                  
                     A Portrait and Biographical Record of 
                                    Delaware
                                 County, Indiana.
                  
                     A Portrait and Biographical Record of 
                                    Delaware
                                 and 
                                    Randolph
                                 Counties, Indiana.
                  Asbury L. Kerwood, Military History of 
                                    Delaware
                                 County.
                  Goodspeed Bros. & Co., History of 
                                    Pike
                                 and Dubois Counties, Indiana.
                  George R. Wilson, History of 
                                    Dubois County
                                
                     .
               
            
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
