
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 035, Issue 1, pages 1-126. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:035+issue:1+year:1939&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Land Policy and Tenancy in the 
                        Prairie Counties
                    of Indiana⋆
            
            PAUL WALLACE GATES
            
            The great prairie section of Indiana stretching from the 
                        Wabash
                     to the Kankakee today challenges the attention of agricultural economists and social
                    planners because of the high rate of farm tenancy, the large average size of farms, the declining
                    population of the rural areas, the poor tenant homes that do not harmonize with the richness of the
                    surrounding soil, and a type of farming which for two generations has been depleting the soil and
                    reducing its fertility.1
            
            This section, a continuation of the Grand 
                        Prairie
                     of 
                        Illinois
                    , has had an agricultural history sharply different from that of southern Indiana. In
                    three prairie counties, 
                        Benton
                    , Newton, and White, more than half of the farms are operated by tenants and in three
                    others, 
                  Jasper, Warren
                and Tip-pecanoe, over 40% are tenant operated. On the 
                        Illinois
                     side of the Grand 
                        Prairie
                     the rate of tenancy is even higher. Contrast this with the sixteen counties in southern
                    Indiana which have less than 20% of their farms operated by tenants The largest farms in
                    Indiana are also to be found in the prairie counties. Two farms totaling over 17,000 acres are
                    reported from Newton County, and 
                        Jasper
                     and Newton each contain eleven other farms over 1,000 acres in size. In 
                        Benton
                     and Newton Counties, the average size of farms is well over 200 acres, and, in White, 
                        Warren
                     and 
                        Jasper
                    , it is over 160 acres. In few southern counties does the average size of farms exceed
                    125 acres. Furthermore, the 
                  
                     ⋆ This paper was read before the General Session of the
                            twentieth annual Indiana History Conference, at the Hotel Lincoln in 
                                Indianapolis
                             on Dee. 9, 1938.
                  
                     1 The research for this article was made possible by a fellowship and
                            two grants-in-aid of the Social Science Research Council to which grateful acknowledgements
                            are made.
               
                     present tendency is toward larger farms in the prairie counties
                    while in the rest of the state it is in the other direction. Counties having the highest land values
                    per acre have the largest farm units and counties with low land values have on the average small
                    farms. One may not be surprised, therefore, to note that the rural population of the richest
                    counties in Indiana has declined in recent years more, in some cases, than the rural population of
                    less wealthy counties.
            Another striking fact concerns 
                        Benton County
                    , the richest of the agricultural counties in proportion to its size. Despite its great
                    agricultural wealth, the farmers of 
                        Benton County
                     do not seem to be as well housed as are the farmers of eleven other Indiana counties
                    which report higher valuations of farm dwellings. One reason for the disparity is that these other
                    counties have lower tenancy ratings than 
                        Benton
                    , and the value of dwellings on owner-operated farms is generally higher than on tenant
                    farms. Perhaps the residents of few areas of Indiana today feel satisfied that their past farming
                    policies have been based on proper soil conservation practices but it is in the prairie counties
                    that the greatest concern should be felt. Here the soil has been depleted to an alarming degree,
                    particularly on tenant operated farms, here the land has been tilled more consistently to grain
                    production, and here, in the twentieth century, livestock has been somewhat neglected.2
            
            A study of the early settlement of the prairie counties reveals that responsibility for the high
                    degree of tenancy, the large farms, the declining population, the poor tenant homes, and the soil
                    depletion is to be attributed in part to the operation of the land system in the nineteenth century.
            Solon Robinson, writing in February, 1835, from his home in 
                        Lake County
                    , Indiana, expressed the view that if the public lands of northwestern Indiana were not
                    offered for public sale until 1836 and if preemption rights were granted by Congress, the area would
                    be well taken up by settlers who would be able to acquire ownership of their claims. This, said
                    Robinson, "will prevent non-residents from obtaining large bodies of land; a circumstance
                    which always injures the rapid growth of a country.3" Robinson was
                    over-optimistic 
                  
                     2 The statistics in this and the preceding paragraph are taken from
                            the Fifteenth Census of the United Statas (1930). 1–111.
                  
                     3 Herbert Anthony Kellar. editor. Solon Robinson, Pioneer
                                and Agriculturist. Indiana Historical Collections. XXI-XXII (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1936), I, 62.
               
                     as to the number of settlers who would be dwelling in that part
                    of the state in 1836, but he was correct in calling attention to that feature of the national land
                    policy to which many of the later land and agricultural problems owe their existence—the
                    cash sale system.
            The Land Ordinance of 1785 and subsequent laws had placed no restrictions upon the amount of public
                    land that individuals or groups could acquire at the government offices, and it was not until after
                    1862 that any serious attempts were made to restrict land entries. The policy of unlimited sales and
                    unrestricted transfer of titles made possible land monopolization by speculators, who acquired most
                    of the choice lands in certain areas, notably in the Military Tract of 
                        Illinois
                    , the prairie sections of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , and the timber areas of 
                  Michigan,
                            Wisconsin
                and 
                        Minnesota
                    .4 This resulted in the early disappearance of cheap or free land
                    and the emergence of tenancy. In Indiana the dead hand of the speculator created many problems which
                    were to stunt the growth and waste the resources of some sections of the state. It is interesting to
                    note that Robinson criticized non-resident owners, but did not raise his voice against resident
                    speculators, with one of the largest of whom in Northern Indiana he had close business relations.
            Unimproved lands and town lots were the chief items of speculation in the 
                        United States
                     before the era of wide scale stock distribution.5 In the nineteenth
                    century, New 
                        England
                    , the Middle States, and the older Southern States poured great sums of money into land
                    investments in the new territories and states as they were opened to settlement. In the boom years
                    1835 to 1837 and again in 1847 to 1857 whole townships were swept into the control of absentee
                    proprietors and holdings of 5,000 and 10,000 acres were widely established while holdings of 50,000
                    to 100,000 acres were not unknown. The fertile state of Indiana naturally attracted the attention of
                    non-resident capitalists and hundreds of thousands of 
                  
                     4 There is considerable detail on early land entries in
                                    
                        Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin
                     . 
                                Minnesota
                             and 
                                Iowa
                             as well as Indiana in the following articles: Paul Wallace Gsltes.
                            "Disposal of the Public Domain in 
                                Illinois
                            ," Juurnal of Economic ad Business Histow (February,
                            1931). III 216–240: id., The Zllinois Central Railroad and its
                                Colonization Work (
                                Cambridge
                            : 1934) : and id., "Southern Investments in Northern
                            Lands before the Civil War." to appear in the Journal of Southern
                                History in the issue of May. 1939.
                  
                     5 A. M. Sakolski. The Great American Land Bubble (
                                New York
                            , 1932). reveals the propensity of the American people to speculate in
                        lands.
               
                     acres of its lands were bought by people who had no intention
                    either of settling upon or improving them.
            It was in southern Indiana that the lands were first opened to entry and here they were generally
                    taken up before the speculative boom of the middle eighteen-thirties got under way. This section was
                    early overrun by squatters who settled promiscuously over the land before it was offered for sale,
                    made improvements, and organized claim associations to provide a quasi-legal land and title
                    registration system in the absence of government action. The claim association was also a mutual
                    protective organization to assist its members against claim-jumpers or speculators who might try to
                    seize or buy their homes.6 Having settled, the squatters petitioned Congress to
                    grant them preemption rights, and Congress, responsive to appeals from pioneer farmers, granted the
                    coveted preemption privilege in a series of special acts. When squatters' appeals did not
                    bring congressional action, the pioneers had another means of safeguarding their homes against
                    outsiders who might attend the auction sale to buy the choice claims. This was to appear en masse at the sale and by intimidation or force prevent competitive bidding. Of
                    course, the squatters had to purchase their lands at the minimum price of $1.25 per acre
                    and when they lacked the cash they had, perforce, to borrow from "loan sharks" at
                    extortionate rates of interest—thirty-two and forty-eight percent—but they
                    preserved their equity, at least temporarily. Thus squaters got title to their lands in southern
                    Indiana, even though they took the law into their own hands to protect their
                    "rights," and they made the land system more democratic in its operation than its
                    framers intended.
            True, there was some speculative purchasing of lands in southern Indiana. Among the larger purchases
                    were those made by Josiah Lawrence, Lucius Barber and their associates who entered 22,000 acres,7 Omer and George Tousey of 
                        Dearborn County
                     who bought 16,000 acres, and Charles 
                        Butler
                    , representing the American Land Company, one of the largest aggregations of capital in
                    the eastern 
                  
                     6 An early constitution of a claim association in Lake and Porter
                            Counties is found in Kellar, Solon Robinson. I. 69–76. William
                            Clark, presiding; officer of the first meeting of this association and one of the three
                            "Arbitrators, was probably the largest of the early landholders in the two
                            counties.
                  
                     7 The detail.; of land entries are compiled from the original entry
                            books in the General Land Office, Department of the Interior, 
                                Washington
                            , and from plat books and deed records of the counties concerned.
               
                     states, who purchased 9,000 acres.8 New 
                        England
                     capitalists were represented in this section by the 
                        Boston
                     and Indiana Land Company whose local agent was Judge John Law of 
                        Vincennes
                    .9 Law and his New 
                        England
                     associates bought 29,000 acres of land located near the canal connecting 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    . In addition Judge Law sold to the Company his interest in the town of Lamasco which he
                    and Judge W. Call and Lucius M. Scott had laid out on the Ohio River. For years
                    thereafter the 
                        Boston
                     and Indiana Land Company was engaged in advertising its lands for sale through
                    newspapers and by pamphlets distributed in the east.10 Other large land
                    purchases made in southern Indiana were: 
                  
                     Name
                     Entered
                     Acres
                  
                  
                     Abraham Blanding & James J. Douglas
                     1836
                     4,500
                  
                  
                     John Borden
                     1848
                     5,120
                  
                  
                     Rufus Breed
                     1849
                     7,680
                  
                  
                     George H. Dunn
                     1836
                     1,620
                  
                  
                     James T. Hobart
                     1837
                     2,600
                  
                  
                     Eusebius Hutchins
                     1847
                     3,200
                  
                  
                     William K Johnston & David Springer & William Fate
                     1848
                     2,400
                  
                  
                     A. W. Leland
                     1836
                     3,680
                  
                Despite these sales, the total amount of speculative purchases in southern Indiana was
                    small when compared with that in northern Indiana. It was neither large enough to retard seriously
                    the development of the area nor to produce in the same degree the agricultural problems which
                    characterize the northern section.
            
               
                  8 It was this Charles 
                            Butler
                         who was later to induce the state of Indiana to compromise with the bondholders of
                        the 
                            Wabash
                         and Lake Erie Canal. His associate Frederick Bronson. likewise a member of the
                        American Land Company, bought' a large tract of land in northern Indiana, as will be
                        seen below. G. L. Prentice, The Union Theological Seminary in the City of 
                                New York
                            : Its Design. With a Sketch of the Life and Public Services of Charles Butlsr,
                            LL.D. (Asbury Park, 
                            New Jersey
                        . 1899). 427–631.
               
                  9 Judge Law believed the 
                            Wabash
                         Valley to be the "richest country on the face of the globe" and
                        maintained, in 1836, that 
                            Toledo
                        , at the northern end of the 
                            Wabash
                         Canal and not 
                            Chicago
                        . was destined to be the "great outlet from the lakes to the
                        Ohio and Mississippi Rivers." The other major
                        points in Indiana and 
                            Illinois
                         for which he predicted rapid growth were 
                            Lafayette
                        . 
                            Evansville
                         and Alton. Fragment of letter of John Law to his brother William,
                        Vincénnes. August 19, 1836. in Indiana Magazine of History (March,
                        1928). XXIV, 62–64; William Wesley Woollen. Biographical and Historical
                            Sketches of Early Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1883). 332–334.
               
                  10 The lands were entered in the names of William Sullivan. George Pratt,
                        and George W. Thatcher, all of 
                            Boston
                        . James W. Seaver, also of 
                            Boston
                        , was one of the leaders of the enterprise. Seaver was also interested in the 
                            Boston
                         and Western Land Company whose investments were in central and northern 
                            Illinois
                         and southern 
                            Wisconsin
                        , and he bought lands with Henry L. Ellsworth in the upper 
                            Wabash
                         Valley. James W. Seaver to William S. Russell, 
                            Boston
                        , August 26, 1838, 
                            Boston
                         and Western Land Company, letter book I. Woodman Mss., 
                            Wisconsin
                         Historical Society. The 
                            Boston
                         and Indiana Land Company published an advertising folder of its lands. dated August
                        14, 1843, 
                     
                                Boston
                             and Indiana Land Company. e copy of which is in the Indiana State Library:
                        For a newspaper advertisement of the lands see the 
                            Washington
                        
                        National Intelligencer, March 19, 1844.
            
            
            In central Indiana there was even less large-scale speculative purchasing than in the south. Here
                    most of the land passed directly from the government to actual settlers.
            The land system worked the least satisfactorily in northern Indiana, especially in the prairie
                    counties. Here the speculators, both absentee and resident, acquired enormous tracts of land before
                    the actual settlers appeared and when the immigrants began to come into the country they found that
                    the lands had long since passed into private hands and could only be acquired at high prices. An
                    area which, from the outset had labored under numerous handicaps to its settlement had now added to
                    them the retarding effect of large speculators' holdings.
            From the first appearance of the white men in Indiana the prairies were regarded with disfavor and
                    they were slow to attract settlers. Their streams were sluggish, meandering and difficult of
                    navigation; their soil was suspected of being infertile; their lack of forest cover gave them no
                    protection against the wintry blasts and greatly increased the costs of building, fencing and fuel;
                    their low relief and poor drainage made parts of them difficult to cultivate until they were
                    drained, and the constant existence of surface water that was used for drinking purposes, produced
                    fevers, chills and other bodily disturbances which were attributed to the unhealthy nature of the
                    prairies. The unfavorable character given to this section by some early writers likewise proved a
                    handicap to the settlement of the region. As Richard Power has well shown,11
                    immigrants preferred to go farther west in their search for land rather than settle in an area in
                    such disrepute. Central 
                        Illinois
                     and even far off 
                        Iowa
                     and 
                        Minnesota
                     drew settlers while such prairie counties as 
                        Benton
                    , Newton, 
                        Jasper
                     and parts of White, 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and 
                        Warren
                     were almost completely avoided. But if actual settlers disdained the prairies one man
                    from 
                        Connecticut
                     had an almost sublime faith in them from his first visit—Henry L.
                        Ellsworth.12
            
            The Ellsworths of 
                        Connecticut
                     rank with the Adamses of 
                        Massachusetts
                     in the number of statesmen, governors, senators, 
                  
                     11 Richard Power, "Wet Lands and the Hoosier
                            Stereotype." 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Valley Historical Review (June, 1935), XXII. 33–48.
                  
                     12 Although outstanding in American agricultural history Ellsworth has
                            not received the attention that his importance would seem to warrant. There are good shod
                            sketches in the following: National Intelligencer, January 1, 1859 :
                            Elmore Baroe, et al., History of 
                                    Benton County
                                , Indiana (Fowler, Indiana, 1930–32, 2 vols.), II, 116 ff.;
                            Elmore Barce, Annals of 
                                    Benton County
                                
                      (Fowler, 1925), passim; Dictionary of American
                            Biography, VI. 110–111.
               
                     diplomats and jurists they have produced. After graduating from
                    Yale, Henry L. Ellsworth became a lawyer, an insurance company executive, a farmer, Secretary of the 
                        Hartford County
                     Agricultural Society, and Mayor of 
                        Hartford
                    . In 1832 he came to the attention of Andrew Jackson who appointed him a member of a
                    commission to visit the Indian country to pacify the warring tribes. In the next two years he
                    travelled extensively in present 
                  Oklahoma,
                            Kansas
               , and 
                        Nebraska
                    , closely observing the soil and farming possibilities of different areas, and keeping
                    comprehensive notes of his observations.13 His journal 14
                    reveals him to be a critical and highly interested observer. It is true his opinion of the 
                        Kansas
                     country seems strange to us now. He noted with disfavor the "scarcity of
                    timber for fences, firewood and buildings," and concluded that on this account much of the
                    land would never be suitable for farming.15 One is the more surprised,
                    therefore, to find him selecting the treeless prairie section of Indiana for a field of investment
                    and permanent location. It is probable that on one of his trips to or from the Indian country,
                    Ellsworth first viewed the 
                        Wabash
                     Valley. He was enormously impressed with the rich prairie lands of 
                  Benton, Tippecanoe, Warren
                and White Counties and decided to invest his own
                    capital there and to persuade his friends to do likewise.
            In 1835 Ellsworth became Commissioner of Patents to which position he was strongly attracted as it
                    enabled him to witness all the important mechanical progress that was being made in the country. He
                    was especially interested in farm machinery such as ditching machines, steam plows, and fencing
                    devices. But more than anything else he wished to make this bureau an agency which would aid the
                    farmers as well as industry. He felt, perhaps, rightly, that "For commerce and
                    manufactures, much has been done; for agriculture … much remains to be done. Husbandry
                    sems to. be viewed as a natural blessing, that needs no aid from legislation. Like the air we
                    breathe, and the element of water, 
                  
                     13
                            
                                Washington
                             Irving and Charles J. Latrobe accompanied Ellsworth on his first trip to the!
                            Indian country and both wrote their accounts of the expedition, an follows: Irving. A Tour on the Prairia in the Crayon Misoellany. Holly
                            edition (
                                New York
                            . 1895) : Latrobe, The Rambler in North America (
                                New York
                            , 1836).
                  
                     14 Stanley T. Williams and Barbara D. Simison, editors, 
                        
                                    Washington
                                 Irving on the 
                                    Prairie
                                , or a Narrative of a Tour of the Southwest in the Year 1832 by Henry
                                Leavitt Ellsworth (
                                New York
                            , 1937). See also the Report of the Commissioners. M. Stoka and J. T.
                            Sehermerhorn. Fort Gibson, February 10, 1834, House Report. No. 474. PP. 78–131,
                                House Reports. 23 Cong., 1 Sess., 1834.
                  
                     15 Letter of Henry L. Ellsworth to Lewis Cass, 
                                Washington
                            . May 13, 1834. be. cit., 76.
               
                     which sustain life, the productions of the soil are regarded by
                    too many as common bounties of 
                        Providence
                    , to be gratefully enjoyed, but without further thought or reflection."16 Ellsworth urged Congress to establish an agricultural museum, recommended
                    that a part of the Smithson bequest be used for vocational education for farmers, and requested that
                    funds be provided for the collection and dissemination of information on agricultural practices at
                    home and abroad.17 The beginning of the publication of an annual volume on
                    agriculture by the Patent Office, and the free distribution of seeds resulted from his efforts and
                    entitle him to be called the "father of the 
                        United States
                     Department of Agriculture."18
            
            Ellsworth was no swivel-chair farmer, nor did he undertake a mere speculation in lands. He was
                    confident that the prairies of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     would be dotted with prosperous settlements in a few years time and he became the great
                    advocate of prairie farming. The prestige of his official position as Commissioner of Patents and
                    the entree he had to farm journals enabled him to give wide publicity to his
                    ideas. Ellsworth's tremendous enthusiasm for the prairie induced him to abandon his
                    ancestral home in 
                        Connecticut
                     and to throw in his lot with the Hoosiers.
            During the thirties when credit was easy and the land speculative boom was at its height, numerous
                    eastern and southern capitalists bought large 'tracts of land in the western states which
                    they tried to develop into great estates operated by numerous tenants paying rent to the landlord.
                    Daniel Webster,19 the Wadsworths of 
                        New York
                    ,20 Thomas Lud-well Lee Brent of 
                        Virginia
                    ,21 and Romulus Riggs of Phila 
                  
                     16 Commissioner of Patents, Annual Report 1837, House Reports, 25 Cons., 2 Sess. (1938), No. 112, p. 6.
                  
                     17 See the Annual Reports of the Commissioner of
                            Patents for 1837 to 1844.
                  
                     18
                            Dictionary of American Biography, VI, 110–111.
                  
                     19 Webster and Thomas H. Perkins of 
                                Boston
                             bought large tracts in 
                        Ohio,
                                    Michigan, Wisconsin
                      and Northern Indiana hut it was in the valley of the
                                Illinois River near Peru 
                                Illinois
                            , that the former planned his estate. Herr, on a tract of 1.000 acres he
                            proposed to erect substantial buildings for his son, Fletcher. and his manager, N. Ray
                            Thomas, and to build fences, and stork the farm with the best blooded cattle available.
                            Large sums were spent on the farm between 1836 and 1840 but the venture was not a financial
                            success and was abandoned. For correspondence concerning the farming operations see the
                            letters of N. Ray Thomas and Fletcher Webster to Daniel Webster, 1836–1840, in
                            the Webster Mss., 
                                New Hampshire
                             Historical Society.
                  
                     20 James and William Wadsworth of Livingston County, 
                                New York
                            , entered 46,000 acres in 
                                Ohio
                             and 
                                Michigan
                            . Henry Greenleaf Pearyon, James S. Wadsworth of Geneaeo (
                                New York
                            , 1913), has little on the western land venture.
                  
                     21 Brent was a clerk in the State Department in 1811 and in the
                            diplomatic service from 1814 to 1834. In 1836 he is reported to have purchased 70.000 acres
                            of land in Genesee and Saginaw Counties, 
                                Michigan
                            . Here he cleared a large tract for improvements but died before he could
                            accomplish his objectives. For an account of "Thomas L. L. Brent," by
                            Judge Albert Miller, see the 
                                Michigan
                             Pioneer and Historical Society, Collections. IX (Lansing,
                            1886), 192–96.
               
                     delphia22 are among those who bought large
                    tracts for such a purpose. Ellsworth had a similar plan in mind but, unlike some of the others, he
                    moved into the area which he proposed to develop and gave it his personal attention.
            It was the Grand 
                        Prairie
                     of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     that most attracted Ellsworth as a field for investment and he centered his attention
                    on that portion embracing 
                        Benton
                     and Tip-pecanoe Counties, Indiana, and 
                        Vermillion
                     and Iroquois Counties, 
                        Illinois
                    . This area, he believed had "the best soil and the most favorable
                        climate."23 He began buying land in June, 1835, when he visited the
                            
                  Danville, Fort
                        Wayne
               , and Craw-fordsville land offices and entered 18,000 acres,
                    10,000 of which were in 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    . He chose the city of 
                        Lafayette
                     for his home and made a substantial investment in lots and improvements there.24
            
            Ellsworth began to farm his extensive holdings in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     in 1836.25 Laborers were employed to make improvements and they, in
                    turn, were encouraged to become tenants upon the improved sections. There was a ready demand in the
                    southern states for hay and this became Ellsworth's first commercial crop. Like most
                    prairie residents, he plunged into the cattle and hog business in a large way but prairie
                    cultivation interested him more than Livestock production. Here he found exercise for his ingenious
                    and fertile Yankee mind. Before part of the prairie could be cultivated it had to be drained and
                    Ellsworth tinkered with various ditching devices, one of which combined ditching and fencing. This
                    machine was designed to provide cheaply for two of the most expensive requirements of prairie
                    farming. He was also fascinated by the new improvements which were being made in the plow in an
                    effort to adapt it to prairies. The first plowing of the tough prairie sod was an expensive 
                  
                     22 Romulus Riggs, brother of Elisha Riggs, the 
                                New York
                             banker, acquired title to 40,000 acres in the Military Tract of 
                                Illinois
                            . He planned to sell 16,000 acres as their value rose, and to retain the other
                            24,000 acres for his children. The reserved lands were to be leased for five years at low
                            rents and the latter were to be doubled at the end of that time and again in ten years. See
                            letter of Romulus Rig- to Elisha Riggs, June 19, 1845. Riggs Mss., Library of Congress.
                  
                     23 Letter of H. L. Ellsworth, January 1, 1837, to Henry William
                            Ellsworth, in the latter's, Valley of the Upper 
                                    Wabash
                                , Indiana (
                                New York
                            , 1838). 163
                  
                     24
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Democrat, June 29, 1835, quoting the 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Mercury;
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Journal, Nov. 13, 1854.
                  
                     25 His son Edward, was placed in charge of the work since Henry L.
                            Ellsworth, despite his unbounded enthusiasm for the prairie. was not prepared as yet to give
                            up his position in the Patent Office where he believed he could do much to advertise the
                            prairies. Ellsworth resigned as Commissioner of Patents in 1845 and settled in 
                                Lafayette
                             where he undertook the persona! supervision of his vast estate. Letter of
                            Ellsworth, to his successor, Edmund Burke, January 1.1836. Commissioner of Patents, Annual Report, 1845, 380; Barce. Annals, 55.
               
                     operation as it took a special kind of a plow which had to be
                    drawn by three or four yoke of oxen. Only a few pioneer farmers could afford to buy or hire such
                    equipment, but on a large farm the cost per acre of breaking the sod was of course considerably
                    reduced and Ellsworth found his cost of prairie breaking much less than he had anticipated. When the
                    steam plow was introduced in the fifties he was as delighted as a child with a new toy and he was a
                    firm believer in its future importance. Large scale operations and the use of machinery for seeding,
                    cultivating, and harvesting further reduced Ellsworth's costs of production and convinced
                    him for a time that the prairie could be inexpensively cultivated and at large profits but far
                    better in large farm units than in small ones.26
            
            Ellsworth wavered in his judgment as to the relative advantages of prairie cultivation and cattle
                    raising. In 1837 he advised absentee proprietors to cultivate their lands through tenants and hired
                    labor and held out to them hopes of high returns on their investments.27 Four
                    years later, he discovered that prairie cultivation required too large an investment of capital for
                    fencing, plowing, and labor and he urged the non-resident owners to graze cattle on their holdings.
                    They could get $1 to $2 per acre for pasturing cattle and, at this rate, he
                    estimated their land would be worth from $16 to $50 per acre.28 In 1846, Ellsworth's faith in grain raising in the 
                        Wabash
                     Valley was revived and he wrote a glowing description of it which appeared in the Annual Re port of the Commissioner of Patents.29 A year later,
                    however, after a bad grain season, he wrote: "I am satisfied that stock raising at the west
                    is much more profitable than growing small grain…. The profits of wheat appear well in
                    expectation on papers, but this prospect is blasted by a severe winter, appearance of insects, a
                    want of harvesting, bad weather in harvesting, in threshing … and lastly, a fluctuation
                    of the market itself." That Ellsworth had a foreboding of evils to come is seen by the
                    following quotation: "Constant crop-pring of corn and small grain carried from the field
                    will … 
                  
                     26 Barce, et al., History of 
                                    Benton County
                                . II, 131–135. prints some exceedingly optimistic
                            descriptions of Ellsworth's farming operations which are taken from
                            Ellsworth's circulars and letters.
                  
                     27 Letter of H. L. Ellsworth, January 1, 1837, in H. W. Ellsworth, Valley of the Upper 
                                    Wabash
                                . 166.
                  
                     28
                            Appendix. II, letter of H. L. Ellsworth to Elizur Goodrich. 
                                Washington
                            , May 25, 1841, 3. (Separate publication, a sort of belated second appendix to
                                Valley of the Upper 
                                    Wabash
                                
                     ).
                  
                     29 Commissioner of Patents. Annual Report, 1845, 380
                                passim (letter of H. L. Ellsworth, 
                                Washington
                            . January 1, 1846).
               
                     diminish gradually, at least, the fertility, and the farm is at
                    length worn out. On the contrary, by feeding the crop on the land, the farm every year
                        grows better."30
                Had Ellsworth's advice been followed
                    the soil qualities of the prairie section might have been less seriously depleted in recent years.
            The Panic of 1837 forced the contraction of Ellsworth's plans for a time but by the middle
                    forties, when business conditions were improving, he began to plunge more deeply into the purchase
                    of land. At the 
                        Crawfordsville
                     land office between 1847 and 1852 he entered 73,500 acres largely with military land
                    warrants which he could buy from sixty-five to $1.10 per acre.
            Ellsworth wished to attract both capital and settlers to the prairies. He reasoned that each
                    additional investment whether by absentee proprietors or settlers would make the prairies better
                    known and further their development. To call attention to the prairie country he prepared a booklet
                    with the title, Valley of the Upper 
                            Wabash
                        , Indiana, with hints on its agricultural advantages: Plan of a
                        dwelling, estimates of cultivation and notices of labor saving machines, which was
                    published in 1838. Restrained in tone in comparison with some of the current guide books, the work
                    cannot be considered too optimistic in its description of the prairies. True, the cost of fencing is
                    seriously understated and the probable profits from prairie farming are equally overestimated. Also
                    too much space is devoted to discussions of the cultivation of flax, sugar beets, tobacco and hemp
                    and not enough to problems of pioneer life on the prairies. Nor is the description of the 
                        Wabash
                     Valley as well done and as valuable for the historian as are Peck's and 
                        Mitchell
                    's guides to 
                        Illinois
                    .31 One is also troubled by the numerous references to large scale
                    farming and the inadequate attention given to the needs and problems of the average settler.32 But, after all, the book was written not so much for them as for men of
                    capital. It is obviously the work of Henry L. Ellsworth 
                  
                     30 Commissioner of Patents, Annual Report. 1847,
                            538.
                  
                     31 J. M. Peck, A Gazetteer of 
                                    Illinois
                                … (
                                Jacksonville
                            , 1834) : (S. A. Mitchell) 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 in 1837… (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1837).
                  
                     32 The Genesee Farmer. of 
                        Rochester, New
                            York
                     , which might be expected to be unfriendly to such a book, wrote
                            about it as follows: "Mr. Ellsworth has drawn his picture of that section [Northern
                            Indiana] … in strong and bright colors. but perhaps dot stronger than fact.?
                            would fully justify…. We cordially recommend it to the notice of emirgants to the 
                                Mississippi
                             Valley." VIII (December, 1938), 394. For a local puff see 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Indiana Eagle, January 16, 1839. The editor of the 
                                Logansport
                            
                            Telegraph. October 20, 1838. while admitting that he had not seen the
                            book, said: "It has been suggested that third are some grounds for doubting its
                            impartiality."
               
                     whose hand is seen on practically every page although Henry
                    William Ellsworth, his son, appears as the author on the title page.33 Included
                    in the book is a letter of the former, written on January 1, 1837, and apparently first published in
                    the Sangamo Journal of 
                        Illinois
                    . It was also published in S. A. Mitchell, 
                  
                            Illinois
                         in 1837, and in A. D. Jones, 
                  
                            Illinois
                         and the West. The following quotation from this letter shows
                    Ellsworth's unbounded enthusiasm for the prairies:34
                    
                        If it be asked, what are the profits of cultivation? I answer, if the land is rented for five
                            years, the profits accruing during this period will repay the capital advanced in the
                            commencement, with 25 per cent. interest per annum, and leave the farm worth $20
                            per acre at the expiration of the lease. Probably the profit would be much greater.
                    
            
            The book announced the formation of a partnership between John Curtis and Henry W. Ellsworth and
                    advertised the purpose of the new firm as follows:35
                    
                        They propose to purchase of Government and individuals, lands in Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                            , for such persons as are desirous to make investments, and to take charge of
                            the same, or of other lands already purchased; pay taxes, and, when
                            requested, to put lands into cultivation, and generally to promote, in the best possible
                            manner, the interests of their employers.
                        The undersigned will take capital to invest in new lands, and allow the capitalist the legal
                            title and a deduction of 8 or 10 per cent. interest, and divide the extra profits, which, it
                            is confidently believed, will not be less than 25 per cent more.
                    
            
            One of the first persons whom Ellsworth induced to make an investment in the 
                        Wabash
                     Valley was William J. Grayson of 
                  Charleston, South Carolina
               .
                    Grayson was an eminent literary figure and a successful politician. He served in Congress for two
                    terms and while in 
                        Washington
                     he met Ellsworth. In 1836 Grayson entered into a partnership with Ellsworth for an
                    investment in Indiana lands. Grayson was to furnish $10,000 for the purchase of lands,
                    was to pay taxes and for such improvements as were jointly deemed advisable; Ellsworth was to manage
                    the lands and to share equally in the profits after deduction. of all costs plus six per cent
                    interest on the investment.36 This type of 
                  
                     33 Henry L. Ellsworth was Commissioner of Patents at the time the book
                            appeared and it would have been inexpedient. to say$ the least, to permit his
                            name to appear 85 the author.
                  
                     34 Ellsworth, Valley of the Upper 
                                    Wabash
                                . 167.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., 173–176.
                  
                     36 The agreement is registered in the White County Deed Records. E.
                            23, and in the 
                                Benton County
                             Deed Reeorda. 2.
               
                     contract was used by Ellsworth with some variations in his land
                    deals with dozens of eastern and southern people who were persuaded to invest their savings in
                    prairie lands.
            Southerners from 
                  Maryland, Washington
                and even from 
                        Texas
                     invested with Ellsworth in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     lands. Two 
                        Baltimore
                     capitalists, Ramsay McHenry and James McHenry Boyd furnished $20,00037 and the 
                        Washington
                     banking firm of Pairo and Nourse which had large land holdings in seven western states
                    and territories bought 11,000 acres through Ellsworth, in 
                        Benton County
                    .38
            
            Most interesting of the absentee investors who were attracted to Indiana lands were the members of
                    the "Yale Crowd," so-called by the local abstractors and attorneys of 
                        Benton County
                    . Ellsworth, a faithful alumnus of Yale, had intermarried with the Goodrich family and
                    had close relations with the Chauncey family, both almost as well known in 
                        Connecticut
                     as the Ellsworths, and likewise loyal sons of Yale. Six of the members of these
                    families with associates bought 95,000 acres in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , of which 45,000 were in the 
                        Wabash
                     Valley. Elizur and Chauncey Goodrich bought 5,340 and 3,960 acres respectively in the
                            
                  Crawfordsville, Fort
                            Wayne
                and 
                        Danville
                     districts. Elihu and Nathaniel Chauncey invested $40,000 with Ellsworth in
                    lands, acquiring thereby 16,500 acres in Indiana and 5,720 in 
                        Illinois
                    , together with a valuable farm near 
                        Lafayette
                     which was intended as an addition to the city.39 Isaac Chauncey and
                    Peter Schermer-horn of 
                        New York
                     entered 5,800 acres at 
                        Crawfordsville
                     and 7,000 acres at 
                        Danville
                    . Other 
                        Connecticut
                     Yankees who invested in prairie lands through Ellsworth were Robert and David
                    Watkinson, who bought 9,500 acres, Noah Webster and dozens of others, who entered from forty to
                    2,000 acres.40
            
            To the 
                        Benton County
                     lawyers, all Yankees who invested in lands through Ellsworth were members of the
                    "Yale Crowd." Thus Joseph S. Cabot and James W. Seaver, of 
                        Boston
                    , 
                  
                     37
                            
                                Benton County
                             Deed Records, 2.
                  
                     38 Compiled from Abstracts of land entries, 
                                Crawfordsville
                             Land Office. Department of the Interior, 
                                Washington
                            , and the 
                                Benton County
                             Deed Records.
                  
                     39 White County Deed Records, F, 573. Elihu, Nathaniel and Isaac
                            Chauncey are given considerable attention in William Chauncey Fowler, Memorials
                                of the Chaunceys, including President Chauncey, His Ancestors and Descendants (
                                Boston
                            , 1858). Passim: The Dictionary of American Biography, IV,
                            40–41, has a sketch of Isaac Chauncey: For a sketch of Chauncey Allen Goodrich,
                            see William L. Kingsley. Yale college. A Sketch of its History (
                                New York
                            . 1879). 47–50.
                  
                     40 The Deed Records of White and 
                                Benton Counties
                            . Indiana, and 
                                Vermillion County
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            , contain innumerable conveyances to and from the members of the "Yale
                            Crowd." The conveyances, as above noted, frequently contain the details of the
                            agreements made with Ellsworth.
               
                     more properly associated with 
                        Harvard
                    , who bought 7,600 and 3,300 acres respectively, are included. Another purchase made
                    with Ellsworth was by Jeremiah Fowler, a downeaster from Lubec, 
                        Maine
                    , who provided money for the purchase of 1996 acres. Mention should also be made of John
                    Thompson of 
                        New York
                     who entered 26,000 acres at 
                        Crawfordsville
                     and Winamac. All the lands that were entered in combination with Ellsworth were manged
                    by him until his death.
            In 1857 Ellsworth, now an old man beset by family troubles, by his own lack of capital which
                    prevented him from developing his vast estate as he had dreamed of doing, and by his inability to
                    secure the profits which he had promised his eastern associates, removed to 
                        New Haven
                    . There he spent the last two years of his life, dying in 1858.41
                    The great champion of prairie farming had passed on, his dream of prairie development unshattered
                    but still unfulfilled. The settlement of Ellsworth's estate was not easy because of
                    complications arising from a late will which left most of the property to Yale and cut off his
                    children and 
                        Wabash
                     College, earlier intended for substantial inheritances,42 with
                    small portions. The will was contested43 and Yale was induced to accept a
                    compromise according to which the share to 
                        Wabash
                     College was partially restored and the shares of Ellsworth's children and
                    grandchildren were enlarged. 
                        Wabash
                     College received 960 acres in 
                        Warren
                     and 2,280 acres in 
                        Benton County
                     and $1,000 in cash.44 Yale received 10,895 acres of
                    which 6,043 was in 
                        Benton County
                    , and the rest scattered among nine other Indiana counties, three 
                        Illinois counties
                     and two 
                        Missouri counties
                    . Yale also received numerous lots in 
                  Fort
                        Wayne, Williamsport, Lafayette
               , and other cities.45 There 
                  
                     41 Barce, et al., History of 
                                    Benton County
                                
                     , II, 126.
                  
                     42 The Ellsworth children's share of the estate was reduced
                            from one-fifth each to the use of property valued at $25,000 for each for life.
                  
                     43 The story of the contest is well treated by Judge Barce, et al., in their History of 
                                    Benton County
                                
                     , II. 136–40. The authors used the White County Cireuit
                            Court, Complete Record No. 3, in the court house in 
                                Monticello
                            .
                  
                     44 Conveyance of September 24, 1860, recorded in 
                                Benton County
                             Deed Records. November 22, 1860; James Insley Osborne and Theodore Gregory
                            Gronert. 
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 College. The First Hundred Years 1892–1936…. (
                                Crawfordsville
                             1932) 62. This is perhaps the best of the histories of small colleges in the
                            United Stakes: In 1862 
                                Wabash
                             was leasing a part of its 
                                Benton County
                             but in 1866 to 1879 it was selling its holdings at prices ranging from
                            $6 to $22.50 per acre. See the Deed Records of 
                                Benton County
                             for these years.
                  
                     45 White County Circuit Court, Complete Record No. 3. The Treasurer of
                            Yale University and the Librarian of the University Library were kind enough to permit the
                            writer to use the manuscripts dealing with the settlement of the Ellsworth estate but the
                            records are disappointingly meagre. One manuscript contains an analysis of the Ellsworth
                            estate, June 1, 1868, which indicates that Yale paid $28,342.26 for obtaining the
                            estate. A part of this was used, no doubt, to buy the interests of those who had a share in
                            the lands, and the rest was for legal expenses and other costs in connection with the trial.
                            By 1869 Yale estimated its share of the estate to be approximately $100,000 of
                            which $60,000 was in unpaid contracts for lands sold. together with the valuation
                            of land remaining unsold. Of the latter there were 2,076 acres averaging in value
                            $9 per acre. As late as 1888. Yale still held mortgages on land in 
                                Benton County
                            . Copies of mortgages and analyses of the estate. Ellsworth Mss., Yale
                            University Library.
               
                     remained to the Ellsworth family 110,328 acres which were
                    located as follows:
            
               
                  In 
                                Illinois counties
                            
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Vermillion
                  7,953
                  
               
               
                  Iroquois
                  7,123
                  
               
               
                  Macon
                  240
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  15,316
               
               
                  In Indiana counties
                  
                  
               
               
                  Allen
                  1,955
                  
               
               
                  Benton
                  74,779
                  
               
               
                  Jasper
                  267
                  
               
               
                  White
                  440
                  
               
               
                  Newton
                  2,014
                  
               
               
                  Montgomery
                  40
                  
               
               
                  Warren
                  2,420
                  
               
               
                  Tippecanoe
                  5,053
                  
               
               
                  Lake
                  8,044
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  95,012
               
               
                  Total
                  
                  110,328
               
            
            Eastern interests probably had an equity in a substantial amount of this land but the firm of Peckham
                    and Smith46 of 
                        Lafayette
                    , which acted as the agent of the family, advertised the entire 110,328 acres for sale.
                    The Ellsworth heirs, 
                        Wabash
                     College and Yale were engaged for the rest of the century in selling and renting these
                    lands, making collections, building some improvements and otherwise trying to capitalize upon their
                    inheritances. But the death of Henry L. Ellsworth, the court battle, and the continued absentee
                    proprietorship left the estate with little personal attention.
            It would be equally interesting to study the land operations of Solomon Sturges47
                    and his associates in the same detail as those of Ellsworth but space permits only a brief mention
                    of them. Sturges was a resident of 
                  Zanesville,
                            Ohio
               , where he had large interests in
                    farm lands, banks, and railroads. In 1836 he began to purchase extensively in the prairie section of
                    Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     and elsewhere until he and other members of his family had accumulated 142,000 
                  
                     46 Peckham and Smith. To the Public, a 19 page
                            pamphlet with no date, in the 
                                New York
                             Public Library.
                  
                     47 Sturges was President of the Central 
                                Ohio
                             Railroad in 1867. Wm. Preacott Smith, The Book of the Great
                                Railway Celebrations of 1857 … (
                                New York
                            , 1868). part ii. 17.
               
                     acres of which 32,000 were in White County, Indiana. These lands
                    were classified as "swamp" but were merely prairie lands which were wet for part
                    of the year. They were considered especially valuable for stock or dairy farms, and, to attract
                    purchasers to them, Sturges advertised them in farm journals and by broadsides.48 His unique advertising method is indicated by the following quotation:49
                    
                        Now, as I hold in abhorrence all speculators, none such need apply. I wish to sell to actual
                            settlers. … I have preached that Congress should only sell lands to actual
                            settlers. Congress never would do right (everybody knows that), so I have tried to take care
                            of the "dear People," as far as I could myself.
                    
            
            Associated with Sturges was Alvah Buckingham, also of 
                        Zanesville
                    . Buckingham was president of the Bank of Muskingum in 1839, and was the principal
                    promoter of the 
                        Wabash
                     Valley Bank of 
                        Logansport
                    .50 It was doubtless the funds of these banks which made possible
                    his extensive investments in lands and railroads. The Buckingham family entered 86,000 acres of land
                    of which 13,000 was in northern Indiana. Across the state line in 
                        Illinois
                    , the Sturgeses and Buckinghams owned 80,000 acres of prairie land. No one except
                    Ellsworth had a larger interest in the 
                        Wabash
                     Valley than these land dealers and they directed their efforts to settling their lands
                    with persons who could buy at prices profitable to themselves. Their advertising gives no hint,
                    however, that it was their intention to withhold their vast acreage from sale and to settle it with
                    tenants as Ellsworth originally intended doing.
            Numerous other persons of capital were attracted to the 
                        Wabash
                     lands in the boom period of the thirties and fifties as the following table shows:51
            
            
               
                  48 Broadside of December 26, 1854, Pratt Mss., Indiana State Library.
               
                  49
                        
                     
                                Prairie
                             Farmer, May 20, 1858.
               
                  50
                        
                            Warren
                         Jenkins, 
                     
                                Ohio
                             Gazetteer and Traveller's Guide (
                            Columbus
                        , 1839). 525: A. Buckingham to D. D. Pratt, 
                            Chicago
                        , June 14, 1860, Pratt Mss., Indiana State Library.
               
                  51 The data for this table were compiled from the records in the General
                        Land Office, Department of the Interior, 
                            Washington
                        , the plat books and Deed Records of 
                            Benton
                         and White Counties, and the Ewing, 
                     Hamilton, Tipton
                   and Pratt
                        collections. Indiana State Library. It is not a complete table of all the large land entries.
                        Data on the swamp, canal, 
                            Michigan
                         Road, and other state lands were obtained only in 
                            Benton
                         and White Counties.
            
            
            
               
                  Name
                  Residence
                  Land district
                  Year
                  Acres
               
               
                  Armistead, G. G.
                  Lauderdale Co., Ala.
                  Crawfordsville
                  1836
                  1,460
               
               
                  Aspinwall, W. H. and Howland, S. S.
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                        
                  1836
                  2,400
               
               
                  Baker, W., and Harvey, H.
                  Otsego Co., N. Y.
                  
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                        
                  1836
                  7,200
               
               
                  Beardsley, Levi, & Morse, J. O.
                  Otsego Co., N. Y.
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
                  1835
                  4,560
               
               
                  Boggs, J., & Evans, J.
                  Pickaway, 
                                Ohio
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
                  1835
                  8,200
               
               
                  Bright, J. & Corcoran, W. W.
                  Indiana 
                                Washington, D. C.
                            
                  
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
                  1858
                  1,738
               
               
                  Ewing, W G., & G. W.
                  
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                        
                  (Scattered)
                  
                  3,960
               
               
                  Ewings, Taber & 
                                Hamilton
                            
                  
                  Indiana
                  (Scattered)
                  
                  21,200
               
               
                  Bronson, F.
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
                  1836
                  7,730
               
               
                  Brooks, J.
                  
                  Winemac
                  1851–2
                  19.480
               
               
                  Cabell, L. R.
                  
                     
                                Campbell
                             Co., Va.
                  LaPorte
                  1835
                  21;060
               
               
                  Canby, M., Naudain, A., & Tatnall, E.
                  
                     
                                New Castle
                            , Del.
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
                  1836
                  9,419
               
               
                  Case, A. S. & Anson Wolcott
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
                  1852
                  3,340
               
               
                  Clarke, William
                  LaPorte
                  LaPorte
                  1835
                  11,040
               
               
                  Delafield. J.
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                        
                  1835–6
                  6,400
               
               
                  DeWolfe, C. E.
                  
                  
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                        
                  1853
                  3,600
               
               
                  Goff, Nathan
                  Harrison Co., Va.
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
                  1836
                  1,560
               
               
                  Grinnell, H. & Joseph, M.
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                        
                  1836
                  2,188
               
               
                  Haas, Isaac
                  
                  LaPorte
                  1835
                  5,200
               
               
                  Hord, Robert
                  Caroline Co., Va.
                  
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                        
                  1836
                  2,970
               
               
                  Horner, James
                  
                     
                                Albany
                            , N. Y.
                  
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                        
                  1836
                  2,600
               
               
                  Hurd, O.
                  St. Joseph
                  LaPorte
                  1836
                  13,850
               
               
                  Jenks, Nathan
                  
                     
                                Ontario
                             Co., N. Y.
                  
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                        
                  1836
                  3,646
               
               
                  
                     
                                Kent
                            , P. M. & A. J., & Willard. I. P.
                  Indiana
                  Winemac
                  1852–3
                  11.660
               
               
                  Leech, J. A.
                  Union Co., Ind.
                  LaPorte
                  1835
                  3;420
               
               
                  Mendenhall, J. R.
                  Union Co., Ind.
                  LaPorte
                  1835
                  2,950
               
               
                  Milligan, Abel
                  Washtenaw, Mich.
                  
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                        
                  1836–7
                  14,200
               
               
                  Minturn, Robert B.
                  
                            
                                New York
                            
                        
                  
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                        
                  1837
                  4,880
               
               
                  Morison, R. S.
                  LaPorte, Ind.
                  LaPorte
                  1835
                  3,840
               
               
                  Polke, William
                  
                     
                                Fulton
                             Co., Ind.
                  LaPorte
                  1837
                  4,740
               
               
                  Pomeroy, B.
                  Stonington, Conn.
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
                  1852
                  2,160
               
               
                  Roberts, Jesse
                  St. Joseph Co., Ind.
                  LaPorte
                  1835
                  1,674
               
               
                  Rockwell, John A., & Charles W.
                  New 
                                London
                            , Conn.
                  
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                        
                  1836
                  2,049
               
               
                  Van Rensselaer, J.
                  Oneida Co., N. Y.
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
                  1836
                  3,000
               
               
                  Switzer, W. N.
                  LaPorte, Ind.
                  LaPorte
                  1835
                  6,117
               
               
                  Walker. John
                  Shelbv Co., Ind.
                  LaPorte
                  1836
                  5,120
               
               
                  Whithead, Swepson
                  Norfilk Cd., Va.
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
                  1837
                  1,280
               
               
                  Williams, J. & W. B.
                  Dutchess Co., N. Y.
                  
                            
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                        
                  1836
                  3,140
               
            
            These large speculative purchases in northern Indiana must not be regarded as unique. Investments on
                    an equally large scale were made in 
                  Michigan,
                            Wisconsin, Illinois
                and 
                        Iowa
                     at the same time. But nowhere was there a greater concentration of absentee and
                    speculator ownership than in the prairie counties of Indiana and in few other sections did the dead
                    hand of the speculator have such a far reaching influence.
            
            By 1855 all the public land in Indiana had been disposed of and yet vast stretches of the state were
                    totally unimproved. Absentee proprietorship and high land prices were to a large extent responsible
                    for the tardy development of such areas, especially the Grand 
                        Prairie
                    . By the eighteen-fifties, when the agricultural pattern of central and southern Indiana
                    was already well established, 
                        Benton
                    , Newton, and 
                        Jasper counties
                     remained almost untouched by settlers, and White, 
                        Warren
                     and 
                        Tippecanoe
                     still contained a large proportion of undeveloped land. As late as 1860, scarcely six
                    per cent of the land in 
                        Benton County
                     was improved and but thirteen per cent was improved in 
                        Jasper
                     and Newton.53 Only two other counties had a smaller population than 
                        Benton
                     in 1860. It was not until well into the eighteen-sixties that these counties began to
                    develop and much of their land was not improved until after 1880. The words of Solon Robinson,
                    written in 1841, in which he deplored the unfortunate effects of land speculation were proving only
                    too true:54
                    
                        It is evident that no man can cultivate such large tracts as many have been anxious to
                            possess, of such a soil as ours. It were better by far that our uncultivated lands were
                            occupied by hardy and industrious laborers, whose every stroke of plough, hoe, or spade,
                            would add intrinsic value to it, than to lie dormant, waiting some hoped for rise in value.
                            It is a subject well worthy of our careful inquiry, whether our greediness has not driven
                            many good citizens to look further, without faring better, while we have fared worse. Our
                            settlements are too sparse, and we ought to use all honorable means to invite immigrants to
                            fill up our waste lands. To do this we must be more liberal.
                    
            
            Many of the absentee proprietors bought their tracts as simple speculations. It was their intention
                    to hold the land until rising prices, which they could reasonably expect within a generation, should
                    enable them to sell at a profit. They had no intention of improving their land or in any other way
                    aiding in their development of the prairies. When taxes were assessed against their property for
                    local improvements many of them delayed payment as long as possible. The Ellsworth lands and those
                    of other easterners were delinquent in tax payments in 
                        Benton County
                     in 1860 as much as eight years. Thus the speculators not only kept the land out of the
                    hands of actual settlers but prevented the collection 
                  
                     53 Computed from Eighth Census of the 
                                United States
                            , 1860. Agriculture. 38, 42. The percentage of Improved land
                            for the state in 1860 was 35.
                  
                     54 Kellar. Solon Robinson, I,
                        217–18.
               
                     of taxes which were needed for road improvements, school
                    expenses, and other local government costs. Where actual residents insisted upon public expenditures
                    for schools and roads they were forced to tax their own property more heavily to compensate for the
                    unimproved lands of the nonresidents who paid little or nothing into the treasury.
            Farm tenancy early appeared in the prairie counties of Indiana and developed rapidly there in
                    contrast to the southern counties where its growth was slow. From the outset Ellsworth had planned
                    to improve his possessions by plating tenants upon them who would after the initial start, continue
                    to break up and cultivate new land, construct fences and buildings and otherwise increase the value
                    of the property. Meantime, they would be paying rent amounting to one-third of the crops they
                    raised. Ellsworth's Valley of the Upper 
                            Wabash
                        
                described his plan of placing tenants upon the land and it was set forth as an
                    inducement to attract capitalists to prairie investments.55 It is remarkable
                    that Ellsworth was criticized neither by the press of Indiana, including the farm journals, nor by
                    politicians for proposing to introduce into pioneer Indiana an institution which all agreed was
                    un-American. Indeed, until well after 1860 one finds politicians praising the American land system
                    because it was, according to them, building up a nation of farm owners, and was not permitting such
                    an alien institution as tenancy to develop. Yet here was Ellsworth publicly inviting capitalists to
                    invest funds through him in Indiana where tenants could be attracted to the lands.
            Ellsworth was not solely responsible for the introduction of tenancy into Indiana. As early as 1823,
                    Lazarus Noble of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     advertised his farm for rent,56 and, after 1835, one finds
                    scattered advertisements in the Indiana papers of farms for rent.57 The
                    Pottawatomie and Miami reserved sections, lying adjacent to the Wabash River
                    and the route of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, were regarded as choice lands 
                  
                     55 In his letter of January 1. 1837. he said "It is customary
                            to rent land (once broke and fenced) for one-third of the crops, delivered in the crib or
                            barn. At this rent the tenant fin⋆ all." He advised
                            the employment of young men "to take the farm on shares. Valley of the
                                Upper 
                                    Wabash
                                
                     , 166. In his subsequent circulars and letters he frequently mentions
                            his tenants and the success be has enjoyed in their employment.
                  
                     56
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Indiana Oracle and 
                                    Dearborn
                                 Gazette. October 4, 1823.
                  
                     57
                            
                        
                                    Lafayette
                                 Free Press and Commercial Advertiser. May 27, 1836: 
                        
                                    Logansport
                                 Canal Telegraph, March 18, 1837: 
                        
                                    Logansport
                                 Herald, January 29, 1840 : 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            
                        
                                    Tippecanoe
                                 Journal, February 2. 1843: ibid., July 31, 1846. The 
                                Monticello
                            
                            Prairte Chieftain. December 23, 1852, contains an advertisement of R. Bury
                            of 
                                Lafayette
                            , who wanted to purchase or rent a farm of 40 to 160 acres.
               
                     and were much in demand by the early settlers. The Ewings of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     who, with Cyrus Taber, Allen 
                        Hamilton
                     and Senator John 
                        Tipton
                     had succeeded in wresting most of these lands from their untutored owners, rented them
                    to incoming settlers who preferred to settle upon them, temporarily, rather than to take up more
                    remote locations back from the river.68 Elsewhere in Indiana, lands were being
                    rented by local proprietors to new arrivals, some of whom, after a short period of tenancy, were
                    able to purchase farms of their own.59
            
            Nor were Ellsworth and the "Yale Crowd" the only nonresident capitalists who
                    intended to develop their estates through tenants. In fact, in practically all the western states
                    easterners bought tracts of land as permanent investments to be developed by tenants. When such
                    easterners appeared in a community where the land office was located, they were welcomed by the
                    local press, feted by the "prominent citizens," and encouraged to invest in the
                    area provided they did not attempt to encroach upon the rights of squatters who had claims on public
                    lands. Thus as early as 1825 the 
                  
                            Michigan
                         Sentinel of 
                  Monroe, Michigan
               , exulted over the fact that a number of
                    "robust capitalists" from western 
                        New York
                     had arrived to purchase lands.60
            
            Ellsworth secured tenants for some of his land by advertising them enticingly in the local papers. In
                    1854 he announced for sale 50,000 acres of "farm lands" near the 
                        Wabash
                     in 
                  Tippecanoe, Warren, Vermillion, Montgomery
               , White, Cass, Miami, 
                        Wabash
                    , Allen, 
                        Whitley
                     and other Indiana counties. If immigrants could not buy, they might lease the lands for
                    two or three years for one half the crops and at the end of the period receive a deed for the land
                    without further payments. Stock and labor were acceptable in place of cash.61 In
                    1848, Ellsworth advertised 30,000 acres of land for sale and ten houses in 
                        Lafayette
                     for rent.62 His tenants found their lot by no means an easy one and
                    not many remained on the land. In addition to plowing, fencing, 
                  
                     58 The Ewing. 
                                Hamilton
                             and 
                                Tipton
                             manuscripts in the Indiana State Library contain frequent allusions to rents
                            received by W. G. and G. W. Ewing. Allen 
                                Hamilton
                            , and John 
                                Tipton
                             from these Indian sections in the years following 1837.
                  
                     59 It was not customary to record leases in the deed records but one
                            finds numerous leases in the Deed Records of
                            
                                Benton
                             and White Counties for the forties and fifties and of course later.
                  
                     60
                            
                                Monroe
                            
                            
                        
                                    Michigan
                                 Sentinel, September 23, December 1, 1825.
                  
                     61
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            
                        
                                    Wabash
                                 Standard, July 18. 1845 : 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            
                        
                                    Tippecanoe
                                 Journal. July 31, 1836.
                  
                     62
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Courier December 29 1848. Included in the advertisement is a statement
                            that persons turning from' 
                                Lafayette
                             may get freight to 
                                Benton County
                            .
               
                     and building homes there was need for draining part of the land.
                    Few sections could be drained satisfactorily without securing the cooperation of owners of adjacent
                    lands but where the owner was a non-resident, or Ellsworth himself, the chances of assistance were
                    slight. Immigrants were unwilling to put themselves to much expense of time or labor to ditch lands,
                    the benefit of which would largely go to the landlord in increased land values. The alternative to
                    farming was the cattle industry, but capital was necessary for this and the ordinary immigrant
                    lacked it. The prairie possessions of absentee proprietors, therefore, had little to offer
                    impoverished immigrants who were seeking cheap land.
            The more substantial immigrants who brought with them to the West considerable sums of money were
                    likewise not attracted to the prairie counties. Ellsworth, Sturges, and other proprietors were
                    holding their lands for five and ten dollars an acre which, added to the cost of bringing the
                    prairie under cultivation, made them high in price, even taking into consideration their great
                    fertility. From 1840 to 1860, there yet remained equally fertile public land in 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Iowa
                     which could be bought for $1.25 an acre. Later, lands in 
                  Michigan, Wisconsin,
                            Kansas
                and 
                        Minnesota
                     were thrown open to entry. After 1862 land could be acquired free under the Homestead
                    Act. Some of this land was as close to railroads as was the 
                        Benton County
                     land which until the late sixties, remained quite distant from transportation lines.
                    Immigrants with capital, unless they were attracted to a particular area because of the earlier
                    settlement there of friends or other members of their own nationality, frequently, preferred to move
                    to undeveloped areas where the land was still open to entry or where they could acquire it cheaply.
                    By so doing they could profit from the rising value which subsequent settlement would give to their
                    claims and they, like the absentee speculators, generally bought more than they could carry.
            It may be argued that it was not the speculators but the wet lands which deterred immigrants from
                    settling in the prairie counties. It is true that the extremely wet lands could not be cultivated
                    until they were drained and that their drainage would call for heavy financial expenditures.
                    Unfortunately, the absentee proprietors were either unable or unwilling to invest more capital in
                    lands which still brought  them no revenue, and the tenants, as
                    has been seen, could scarcely afford to invest their money or very much of their labor in
                    improvements of which they might be dispossessed at any time. Had the lands been democratically
                    owned by farmers operating quarter-section tracts cooperative ditching systems might have been
                    arranged, the reduced costs would not have been insurmountable, and the wet lands would doubtless
                    have been brought under cultivation much sooner.
            Absentee ownership not only kept both the impoverished immigrants and those supplied with capital
                    away from the prairie counties but it also delayed the construction of railroads. Many Indiana
                    counties aided materially in their own developments by liberally subsidizing the construction of
                    railroads through grants or loans. But absentee proprietors were loath to make contributions for
                    this purpose, even though they might be benefitted greatly by the transportation lines. Furthermore,
                    the virtually non-taxable lands of the absentee proprietors so reduced the tax base of the area that
                    the counties could not sell bonds to finance railroad subsidies. Railroad lines which did not need
                    to depend upon local aid for their construction, such as the 
                        Wabash
                    , the Monon, and the 
                        Logansport
                     and Peoria, were built through the prairie country in the fifties63
                    but there yet remained vast stretches of land so far from railroads that transportation costs were
                    prohibitive. Other railroad schemes were proposed but they had to wait until the 'seventies
                    and 'eighties when prairie development had progressed sufficiently to make possible their
                    financing. Before 1870 
                        Benton County
                     could not boast a single mile of railroad. Settlers who would have worked hard to
                    secure them by voting county subsidies and by exchanging mortgages on their own lands for bonds of
                    the railroads were not encouraged to settle in 
                        Benton
                     or other prairie counties, despite the publication of the colorful advertisements of
                    Ellsworth and Sturges.
            In the late fifties most of the prairie land still owned by the original speculators was sold to
                    another group of capitalists who took their places as great landlords.64
                    Ellsworth's eastern associates had grown tired of waiting for their promised $10
                    and $20 per acre and were glad to sell for much less 
                  
                     63 Frederic L. Paxson, "The Railroads of the 'Old
                            Northwest' before the Civil War, 
                                Wisconsin
                             Academy of Sciences. Arts, and Letters, Transactions
                            (October, 1912). XVII, Part 1. 243–2'74.
                  
                     64 These sales can be traced through the deed records of the prairie
                            counties.
               
                     rather than to continue to suffer tax penalties and especially
                    further loss of income from their capital. This second stage of large land ownership was not
                    characteristically speculative in its nature but was more constructive. The new owners were
                    generally Hoosiers who lived in the prairie counties where they had already built up considerable
                    fortunes from the cattle trade, railroad construction, banking and the sale of town lots. They were
                    a part of the community, had grown up with it, and were now showing their confidence in it by
                    investing their surplus at home. They were an aggressive group of men who had the capital and the
                    driving force to make the prairies productive.
            One of the most able of this later class of landlords was Moses Fowler, 
                        Lafayette
                     banker, cattleman, partner in a large meat-packing firm and railroad contractor. With
                    Adams Earl and others he bought 20,000 acres in 
                        Benton County
                     and in White and 
                        Warren Counties
                     he acquired 25,000 acres.65 Fowler became a power in 
                        Benton County
                    . He pastured great herds of cattle and raised with the aid of his numerous tenants tens
                    of thousands of bushels of corn. His sales of grain and stock from his 
                        Benton County
                     farms were said to amount to as much as $150,000 per annum.66 He moved the county seat from 
                        Oxford
                    , where Henry L. Ellsworth and David Watkinson had been influential in locating it, to
                    Fowler which town he laid out.67 He aided in financing and constructing the Big
                    Four Railroad which runs diagonally through 
                        Benton County
                     to 
                        Chicago
                    . The completion in the 'seventies of this railroad running through the Fowler
                    lands made possible their more intensive development.
            Edward C. Sumner, another of the great cattle kings of Indiana, bought 30,000 acres in 
                        Benton County
                    , the greater part of which was acquired from Ellsworth and other members of the
                    "Yale Crowd." For most of the land he paid $5 per acre but for a part
                    he was forced to give as much as $30 per acre. Judge Elmore Barce has described the
                    extensive cattle trade in which Sumner was engaged during the 'seventies and
                    'eighties on his 
                        Benton County
                     lands, and he 
                  
                     65 Information as to the acreage of the Fowler, Sumner. Boswell. Raub,
                            Atkinson. Milk, Gaff and Goodwin estates is from the following sources: 
                                Benton County
                             Deed Records: Counties of 
                           Warren
                                    Benton, Jasper
                         and Newton, Indiana. Historical and Biographical (
                                Chicago
                            , 1883) ; Barce. et at., History of 
                                    Benton County
                                ; George Ade, "
                                Prairie
                             Kings of Yesterday." Saturday Evening Post (July 4.
                            1931). CCIV. 14ff.
                  
                     66
                     Biographical History of Eminent and Self Made Men of
                                the State of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                            . 1880), II. 9th District, 13–14.
                  
                     67 Barce et al., History of 
                                    Benton County
                                . II, 147; Counties of 
                                    Warren
                                . 
                           Benton, Jasper
                         and Newton, Indiana. 233 ff.
               
                     has noted the sale of 1100 head of cattle in 1882 for a price of
                    nearly $100,000.68
            
            Lemuel Milk and his associates operated on an even larger scale than Fowler or Sumner. They are said
                    to have owned 65,000 acres of land in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     of which 40,000 were in the Beaver Lake region of Newton County, Indiana. Here, after a
                    part of the tract was drained, there were pastured 10,000 sheep, 2,500 cattle and 300 horses. One
                    field of corn contained 2,000 acres.69
            
            Other large holdings in 
                        Benton County
                    , most of which were established in the 'fifties were: those of Parnham
                    Bos-well, 12,000 acres; of Cephas Atkinson, 12,000 acres; and of Adams Danforth Raub, 6,000 acres.
                    In Newton County James M. Gaff of 
                        Cincinnati
                     bought 11,000 acres and Alexander J. Kent acquired 25,000 acres. In 
                        Warren County
                     perhaps the largest landholder was James Goodwin who built up an estate of 10,000
                    acres. In White County John Kious owned an estate of 4,000 acres and Miller Kenton one of 5,000
                        acres.70
            
            These men did not make the mistake of sinking all their money in land but had funds left with which
                    to develop their holdings. Under them began the real improvements upon tracts which had been in
                    private ownership for a generation. They grazed great herds of cattle upon their lands and gradually
                    fenced their tracts. But grain feeding was necessary for part of the year and these prairie kings,
                    so picturesquely described by George Ade, turned to raising corn.
            Increasing land values and taxes made necessary more intensive use of the land than the great
                    proprietors were able to introduce. Cattle and hog raising with grain production as a side line had
                    to be reversed and grain raising became the principal method of farming the prairies. The large
                    estates were gradually broken up into small tenant farms and a system of crop sharing was
                    introduced. The tenants were frequently drawn from the laborers previously employed by the
                    proprietors.
            When the estates were divided into tenant farms, the owner-manager was no longer needed. Thereafter,
                    the generation 
                  
                     68
                            History of 
                                    Benton County
                                . III, 64 ff.
                  
                     69 George Ade. loc. cit., 77, Cf. 
                                Illinois
                             Central Railroad, Sectional Maps … 850,000 Acres vet for Sale (
                                Chicago
                            . 1867), 66.
                  
                     70 In 1876 Raub advertised 6,000 acres of pasture for rent. Renton Democrat, March 24. 1876. The following year Parnham Boswell
                            advertised 1,650 acres of grazing or grain land for sale for $30 per acre. The
                            property included a large residence of eleven rooms, tenant houses, orchard, and
                            160–200 acres of timber. Id., May 25, 1877.
               
                     of cattle kings slowly faded from the picture and their heirs
                    moved to 
                  Lafayette, Indianapolis, Florida
               , and 
                        California
                    . The second generation, being out of touch with the land, became more concerned with
                    the income to be derived from it than with such problems as erosion, soil exhaustion, and declining
                    fertility. They wanted immediate returns, and forgot that land is not inexhaustible. Grain was the
                    principal and safest cash crop from the point of view of the absentee proprietors and tenants, in
                    some cases, were actually discouraged from keeping cattle. A local historian wrote as early as 1883, "
                        Jasper County
                     is still too new, its soil too little exhausted, to encourage or feel the necessity of
                    a regular system of agriculture,"72 but conditions became progressively
                    worse as time passed. The soil was gradually depleted and of course production per acre declined.
            The land system which had worked fairly satisfactorily from the settlers' point of view in
                    southern Indiana in the early part of the nineteenth century failed in its objectives in northern
                    Indiana where great landlords first acquired titles to the land and democratic ownership was
                    subsequently impossible. The preemption law of 1841 was a gesture to actual settlers (squatters) but
                    it did not check speculation, and the homestead act of 1862 came too late. By then all the public
                    lands in Indiana had passed into private hands. There yet remained a large acreage of undeveloped
                    land which, however, was withheld from impoverished immigrants by its high price. Indiana could no
                    longer be a refuge for the poorer class of immigrants who were seeking free or cheap land.
            The first generation of speculators contributed nothing to the development of the prairie country.
                    Even Ellsworth, less a speculator than a promoter, did more harm than good by helping to bring about
                    a speculators' monopoly in the prairie country. When these speculators sold their land it
                    went to a second, more dynamic group of promoters who could partially develop their holdings but who
                    still prevented democratic ownership. When the second series of owners divided their estates into
                    tenant holdings, it was too late for 
                  
                     71
                            
                                Monticello
                            
                            
                        
                                    Prairie
                                 Chieftain, October 2, 1850. Large ownership of land in 
                                Jasper
                             and Newton Counties was revealed in the twentieth century with the publication
                            of the Standard Atlas of 
                                    Jasper County
                                . Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1916). It reports B. J. Gifford as the owner of 24,000 acres in 
                                Jasper County
                             and John J. Lawler as the owner of 18.000 acres in 
                                Jasper
                             and Newton Counties.
                  
                     72
                            Counties of 
                           Warren, Benton, Jasper
                        
                                and Newton, 419.
               
                     tenants or other small farmers with little capital to buy the
                    land. Rising land prices, $50 per acre and more for improved sections, fastened the
                    tenancy system and absentee ownership upon the prairie counties. The much vaunted land system had
                    failed of its objective in the 
                        Wabash
                     Valley and the prairie farther west. It had not established democratic farm ownership
                    but had produced a system much at variance with American democratic ideals.
         
         
         
            The Centennial of "The Trail of Death"
            IRVING MCKEE
            
            On September 4, 1838, the last considerable body of Indians in Indiana was forcibly removed. The
                    subsequent emigration of these Indians to the valley of the Osage River in 
                        Kansas
                     has been appropriately named "The Trail of Death" by Jacob P.
                        Dunn.1 An article by Benjamin F. Stuart dealing with the removal of
                    Menominee and his tribe, and Judge William Polke's "Journal" tell a vital
                    part of the story.2
            
            In addition there are two monuments at Twin Lakes, 
                        Marshall County
                    , that mark the scene of this removal. One is a statue of a conventional Indian upon a
                    lofty pedestal with the following inscription: 
                        In Memory of Chief Menominee And His Band of 859 Pottawattomie Indians Removed From This
                            Reservation Sept. 4, 1838 By A Company of Soldiers Under Command of General John 
                                Tipton
                             Authorized By Governor David Wallace.
                    
            
            Immediately below the above historical matter, the following is inscribed: 
                        Governor of Indiana J. Frank Hanly Author of Law Representative Daniel McDonald, 
                                Plymouth
                             Trustees Colonel A. F. Fleet, Culver Colonel William Hoynes, Notre Dame Charles
                            T. Mattingly, 
                                Plymouth
                             Site Donated By John A. McFarlin 1909
                    
            
            The second memorial is a tabulated rock a quarter of a mile away from the first, at the northern end
                    of the larger of the Twin Lakes, which marks the location of an old Indian chapel. The inscription
                        reads:
                        Site of Menominee Chapel Pottawattomie Indian Church at 
                        
                           1
                                    True Indian Stories (
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , 1909), 237.
                        
                           2 Stuart, "The Deportation of Menominee and His Tribe
                                    of Pottawattomie Indians." Indiana Magazine of History
                                    (September, 1922). XVIII, 256–265; William Polke. "Journal of an
                                    Emigrating Party of Pottawattomie Indians, 1838," ibid.
                                    (December, 1925) XXI, 315–336. (Authorship of this Journal is not
                                    certain). Cf. Kenneth F. 
                                        Mitchell
                                    , Journal of American History, 1922). XVI. 353.
                     
                             Chi Chi Pi On Ti Pe Twin Lakes First Church in 
                                Marshall County
                             Erected 1827 by Father Badin. First Catholic Priest Ordained in U.S. 1838 the
                            Indians Were Moved Westward and the Chapel Was Forever Closed Commemorated by Howard C.
                            Grube
                    
            
            As far as can at present be ascertained, the first of the two inscriptions is historically accurate.
                    The second, however, contains a serious error. The chapel was not built in 1827, nor did the Rev.
                    Stephen Badin have any connection with it.
            Before proceeding with the story, it may be mentioned that both of the monuments resulted from the
                    interest of the late Daniel McDonald in the Pottawatomi. As a scholar, a representative in the State
                    Legislature, and a newspaper editor, McDonald labored conscientiously in behalf of the Indians he
                    had first encountered as the child of a pioneering family. His are still the fullest available
                    accounts of the Pottawatomi of Indiana.3
            
            McDonald worked for two years from the time of his address before the legislature finally passed his
                    bill appropriating $2,500 for the statue of Menominee and for the rebuilding of the old
                    Indian chapel.4 On September 4, 1909, these memorials were completed and
                        dedicated.5 Since that time, however, the reconstructed chapel has
                    disappeared and has been replaced by the tableted rock, and the statue, "the first and only
                    monument erected to an Indian or band of Indians authorized by legislative enactment by the 
                        United States
                     or by any state in the Union," alone remains.
            Several of McDonald's findings must be modified, but his name nevertheless will always be
                    most prominent in association with the memory of Indiana's last Indians.
            The number of Indians in Indiana was estimated in 1835 as 4,000.6
                    Menominee's tribe included about 1,500 who 
                  
                     3 For Address of Representative Daniel McDonald of 
                                    Plymouth
                                 Delivered in the House of Representatives, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Friday, February 8, 1905. on The Bill to Erect a Monument to the
                                Pottawattomie Indians at Twin Lakes, 
                                    Marshall County
                                
                     , see his History of Lake Maxinlcuckee (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1905) : and his monumental Twentieth Century History of 
                                    Marshall County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            . 1908).
                  
                     4 McDonald, Twentieth Century History. vol. I, pp.
                            50–52.
                  
                     5 Culver Citizen, Sept. 9, 1908.
                  
                     6
                            Annales de la Propagation ds la Foi (Lyon. 1836), vol. VIII. 323.
               
                     inhabited the region between Lake Maxinkuckee and the present
                    site of 
                        Plymouth
                    .7 Menominee's Village consisted of apprpximately a hundred
                    "wigwams, cabins, and tepees" near Twin Lakes.8
            
            During the eighteenth century, the Indians had known Christianity as it was interpreted to them by
                    French missionaries.9 Following the departure of these visitors, American
                    traders and whiskey had brought about the impoverishment and degeneration of the Pottawatomi.10
            
            Menominee himself, however, appears to have been an unusual personage. The only detailed and
                    firsthand account we have of him was written by the first missionary to come to Twin Lakes after the
                    departure of the French. The Rev. Isaac McCoy, a Baptist minister living at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , refers to Menominee in 1821 as follows: 
                        I had been informed by an Indian trader that on the Illinois River [He
                            meant Yellow River], some hundred miles from 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , there was a company of religious Putawatomies, at the head of whom was one who
                            was a kind of preacher, whose name was Menominee. As this man exhorted his followers to
                            abstain from ardent spirits and many other vices, and to practice good morals, and as a part
                            of their religious services consisted in praying, we were induced to hope that their minds
                            were somewhat prepared to receive religious instruction…. About the 10th of
                            April, the party of Indians from Twin Lakes came to 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , to see me; and during several days that they remained in that neighborhood, we
                            had much interesting conversation on the subject of religion. The leader [Menominee]
                            professed to have been called, some few years previously, by the Great Spirit, to preach to
                            the Indians that they should forsake their evil practices, among which he enumerated the
                            vices of drunkenness, theft, murder, and many other wicked practices. He had a few
                            followers, the number of whom was increasing. They generally kept close together, and all
                            united in morning and evening worship, at which times they heard a lecture from their
                            leader, and all kneeled and engaged in prayer, all vocally reciting the same words at the
                            same time. While they taught good morals, they appeared wholly ignorant of the leading
                            doctrines of the Bible, which teach that salvation is by Christ. Menominee, however,
                            appeared to be more meek and ready to receive instruction than could have been expected from
                            a wild man who had arrogated to himself claims to be a leader, not only in temporal, but
                            also in spiritual things.11
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  7 Stuart, op. cit., 258.
               
                  8 McDonald, op. cit., I, 6.
               
                  9 William MeNamara. The Catholic Church on the Northern
                            Indiana Frontier, 
                            Washington
                        , 1931, chap. I.
               
                  10
                        Report of John W. Edmonds, Dec. 19. 1837, Indian Office, 
                            Washington
                        
               
               
                  11 Isaac McCoy, History of the Baptist Indian Missions (
                            Washington
                        , 1840). 95–96.
            
            
            Menominee's Village at this time (1821) consisted, according to McCoy, of only four huts
                        ;12 its growth in the next seventeen years is some evidence of the
                    leader's powers. The Baptist missionary visited Twin Lakes twice in 1821, observing and
                    recording many details of the daily life of the Indians and their religious practices. Subsequently
                    he founded the short-lived Carey Mission near Niles, 
                        Michigan
                    , and then associated himself with the settlements of transported Indians in 
                        Kansas
                     and 
                        Missouri
                    .13
            
            The next important contact these Pottawatomi had with white men was when Commissioners Jonathan
                    Jennings, John W. Davis, and Mark Crume—appointed by President
                    Jackson—negotiated a treaty at the forks of the 
                        Wabash
                     on the site of the present city of 
                        Huntington
                    , October 26, 1832.14 This was a preliminary step in carrying out
                    the federal policy of gradually forcing the Indians away by buying up their lands and transporting
                    them to reserves west of the Missississippi.15 The Indiana legislature had
                    concurred in this purpose the previous year.16 By the terms of the treaty
                    Menominee and numerous other chiefs received twenty-two sections of land (14,080 acres) between 
                        Plymouth
                     and Twin Lakes as well as an annuity in exchange for their former enormously larger
                        domain.17
            
            On August 27, 1834, another momentous event occurred when the Rev. Louis Deseille, visiting Twin
                    Lakes for the first time, baptized Menominee and several others of the tribe in the area of the
                    lakes "under the branches of an old, shady oak, after some days of
                        instruction."18 The evidence points to this as the first appearance
                    of a Catholic priest at Twin Lakes for seventy years at least. Deseille, who had come to 
                        South Bend
                     from Holland in 1832, was the successor of the Rev. Stephen Theodore Badin, founder, in
                    1830, of the Catholic mission there which eventually became Notre Dame.19
            
            In the fall of 1834, William Marshall, resident Indian 
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 102.
                  
                     13 McCoy. op. cit., passim.
                  
                  
                     14 McDonald, op. cit., I, 10.
                  
                     15 Annie H. Abel, "History of Indian Consolidation West of
                            the 
                                Mississippi
                            ," Annual Report of the American Historical
                            Association, 1906. I.
                  
                     16 McDonald, Address, 1905, 3.
                  
                     17
                            A Compilation of All the Treaties between the 
                                    United States
                                 and the Indian Tribes, 
                                Washington
                            , 1873, 680.
                  
                     18
                            Baptismal Register, Notre Dame University.
                  
                     19 McNamara, op. cit., 26.
               
                     agent in Indiana,20 negotiated another
                    treaty with Menominee's tribe.21 By its terins the government was to
                    purchase half the reservation at fifty cents an acre, and the remaining eleven sections would become
                    the property of individual Indians (among them Menominee) as well as certain white settlers. The
                    latter were just beginning to appear on the scene. This document was not recorded as it was
                    subsequently disapproved by the President as a fraud on the Potta-watomi, since the price per acre
                    was too low.22
            
            McDonald believed that the chapel at Twin Lakes was built by Badin in 1827, apparently because of an
                    old Indian's recollection, in spite of the fact that Badin did not come to Indiana until
                    1830 and left no record of Menominee's tribe.23 The tableted rock which
                    at present commemorates the chapel records McDonald's statement as historical fact. A
                    letter of Deseille's shows unmistakably that the building was not erected until
                    1834–1835 and that the Indians themselves carried the project through.24
            
            Deseille had been at Twin Lakes in August, 1834,25 and he did not return until
                    May, 1835, just after a visit to Check-awkose's Village on the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     with his superior, Bishop Simon Bruté of 
                        Vincennes
                    .26 In his letter, dated June 10, 1835, from Pokegan's
                    Village (near Niles, 
                        Michigan
                    ) and addressed to the Bishop, Deseille records his discovery of the chapel, the fact
                    that the Indians were making the Church a present of 640 acres along with the building, and the
                    reaction of the Pottawatomi to Bruté's sojourn at Checkaw-kose's
                    Village. I translate part of Deseille's letter as follows: 
                  
                     
                        I have been back for eleven days from the Indian missions of the 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                     and the Yellow River [near Twin Lakes], where I
                                    had the pleasure of accompanying you, and I am taking the first free moment to
                                    inform you of the result of our visit.
                        Your unexpected presence among these inhabitants of the woods so overcame their
                                    natural apathy that, at the first news of your arrival, which spread from village to
                                    village with the swiftness of the wind, everybody—men, women,
                                    children—donned his best spring attire, mounted on horseback, and,
                                    through quagmires and marshes, came to see the great Black-Robe whom they knew to be
                                    the chief of the 
                              
                                 20 "Correspondence on Indian
                                            Removal," Mid-America, 
                                                Illinois
                                             Catholic Historical Society, IV, 180.
                              
                                            21
                                            Ibid.
                                        
                              
                                 22 McDonald, Twentieth Century
                                            History, I, 26.
                              
                                 23
                                            Ibid., 6, 11.
                              
                                 24
                                            Annales, VIII, 324–327.
                              
                                 25
                                            Baptismal Register, Notre Dame University.
                              
                                 26
                                            Andes, VIII, 318–328.
                           
                                     other Black-Robes, of whom their fathers had
                                    spoken so much, and whose departure several had regretted until their last breath
                                    and had died bidding their children to listen if the great Lord of Life sent the
                                    Black-Robes again.
                        As early as the day after your departure two new chiefs, whom I had never seen
                                    before, came with all their tribe to ask to be instructed and admitted to prayer.
                                    All the Indians, one after the other, renounced liquor and their superstitious
                                    practices. I could say only a few words to exhort them to imitate Christians in
                                    order to be instructed and learn their prayers. They promised me they would do so as
                                    soon as their maize was planted.
                        I had to do likewise with all the others, who did not stop coming from morning to
                                    evening during the whole week. The number of those who came to prepare themselves
                                    for baptism was also so great that they did not think at all of bringing provisions,
                                    and already hunger was beginning to make itself felt in the camp of the Christians
                                    and catechumens. Therefore it was necessary, before the end of the week, to send
                                    back all of those who lived on the Yellow River, promising them
                                    that I would see them $he following week.
                        I stayed ten days at this 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                     mission and baptized forty-three adults in that time. Some thirty who
                                    had already been baptized the summer before took their first communion.
                        Thence I left for the Yellow River. The number of new arrivals
                                    obliged me to stay six days at this place likewise, and I baptized thirty-seven
                                    savages there. They had erected a little chapel close to the cross I had set up last
                                    autumn, on the same plan as that at 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                    .
                        The chiefs of this reserve, which comprises twenty-two sections, came to offer me a
                                    demi-section [320 acres] upon which to build a church, and another demi-section for
                                    an educational establishment for their children so that they could learn to read and
                                    study.
                        They will presently come here to sign the deed of this gift, which I shall draw up on
                                    the model of the one at 
                                        Tippecanoe
                                    . They have made all possible entreaties to induce me not to abandon
                                    them. It would be a crime for me to abandon people who show such a persevering
                                    desire to know and do God's will!27
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            McDonald quotes from one of Bishop Bruté's letters a passage which he calls a
                    description of the chapel at Twin Lakes, but which in reality is a sketch of the one at
                    Pokegan's Village near Niles.28 The only authentic view of it seems to
                    be the meager recollection of a pioneer settler, John Low-ery: "The building was made of
                    hewn logs, and its dimensions were about forty by twenty feet."29
            
            Less than two months after Deseille's letter, presented above, Col. Abel C. Pepper, resident
                    Indian agent at Logans 
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 324–327.
                  
                     28 McDonald, op. cit., I. 6. Cf.
                            Mary S. Godecker, Simon Brute de Remur (1931), 247–248.
                  
                     29 McDonald, op. cit., I. 31.
               
                     port, wrote to the priest under date of August 7, 1835, warning
                    him against subversive activities among the Indians.30 In the light of
                    subsequent events, it appears obvious that Pepper suspected that the missionary was encouraging the
                    Pottawatomi to keep their property in Indiana, when it was the government's policy to
                    deprive them of it. Deseille replied on October 10 following that his only interest was in the
                    spiritual affairs of the Indians, and Pepper assured him on October 20 that, if the law were upheld,
                    all would be well.31
            
            But the authorities were far from placated. On November 3 John Gibson, Commissary General of
                    Subsistence at 
                        Washington
                    , charged Deseille with supporting the illegal treaty of 1834 and with agitating against
                    the prospective removal by exhorting the Indians to build a church. The Catholic priest countered on
                    December 28 with a strong reiteration of his disinterestedness and with denials of having had
                    anything to do with the treaty or the building of the chapel—except that he approved the
                        latter.32
            
            On January 22, 1836, Gibson assured Deseille that the Indians could stay on the reserve "as
                    long as they wished to remain there" and that he could proceed with his ministrations, for
                    on March 21 following, we find the missionary applying to Pepper for an appropriation from the
                    Indian Instruction Funds.
            Apparently the Commissary General had not been informed of what the Indian agent was accomplishing,
                    or the former would not have written thus to Deseille. In the spring of 1836, Pepper was remarkably
                    successful in buying up the Pottawatomi lands, negotiating treaties at Turkey Creek 
                        Prairie
                     on March 26, on the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     March 29 and April 11, and at 
                        Logansport
                     April 22. This consistent progress could brook no interference: the response to
                    Deseille's petition was a curt refusal on April 18.33
            
            The "trail of death" became inevitable on August 5, 1836, when twenty-six
                    Potawatomi (among whom Menominee was conspicuously absent) apparently met Col. Pepper at the
                        Yellow River and signed a treaty ceding the Menominee Reserve to the 
                        United States
                    . For the 14,080 acres three of the signers—Pepinawaw, Natawka, and
                    Mackatawmoah— 
                  
                     30
                            Mid-America. IV, 178.
                  
                     31
                     Ibid., 177–178.
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., 179–180.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 177–183.
               
                     "chiefs and headmen", were to receive
                    $14,080 on May 1, 1837, after the debts of the tribe were paid and deducted. Finally, it
                    was stipulated that the tribe would move to a reserve provided by the government west of the 
                        Mississippi
                     within two years.34
            
            In connection with this treaty one cannot deny credibility to the curious petition which was
                    addressed to the President and the Senate through Gen. John 
                        Tipton
                    
               35 under date of November 4, 1836. Written in halting English, this
                    document purports to be a denial by Menominee, Mackatawmoah, Pepinawaw, and Natawka that they, or
                    any of their band except one, had signed the instrument destroying their title to the reserve. They
                    maintained that they had been working in their fields at the time of the signing—in
                    short, that their names (except for Menominee's, which had been omitted) had been forged
                    and that irrelevant ones had been added. The memorial concludes with the marks and names of these
                    and fourteen other headmen.36
            
            Not only is there no record of a reply to this petition, but there is no evidence that 
                        Tipton
                     divulged its contents to anyone, let alone the President and the Senate.
            Deseille sojourned at Twin Lakes before and after the Treaty of 1836 and made no secret of the fact
                    that he considered it a fraud.37 This is apparent in the report of Lewis H.
                    Sands, assistant Indian agent, to his superior, Col. Pepper, on May 11, 1837. In visiting the tribes
                    which had signed treaties the previous year, Sands found prospects of emigration good everywhere
                    save at Twin Lakes. Here the Indians would hardly listen to him, and Deseille was frank in
                    denouncing the treaty: 
                        I had considerable difficulty in getting them to hear the messages you required me to
                            deliver. I find that the band is under the influence of a priest who lives in the village.
                            My attention was therefore directed to find out whether this man was using his influence in
                            opposition to the views of the government. I inquired of the white settlers and learned
                            enough to induce me to call on the priest for an explanation of his course.
                        He appeared willing to give me an answer to my queries, and I am perfectly convinced that he
                            has made this band of Indians believe that they have not sold their reservation and that it
                            will remain 
                        
                           34
                                    Competition of Treaties, 712.
                        
                           35 1786–1839. U. S. Senator 1833–1839
                                    and former Indian agent. He "speculated widely in cheap lands"
                                        (Dictator of American Biography).
                        
                           36 Unpublished Mss. in the 
                                        Tipton
                                     Collection, Indiana State Library.
                        
                           37
                                    Baptismal Register. Notre Dame University.
                     
                             theirs as long as they live and their children. He had a
                            copy of the treaty which he produced to me and contended that this band of Indians had been
                            defrauded—that none of the chiefs had signed the treaty, and among all the
                            signatures to it there were but two young men that belonged to the band, and he admitted
                            that he had so explained it to the Indians….
                        It is represented to them that they can remain on the lands … and that they can
                            buy the same land again at $1.25 per acre.38
                  
                    
            
            Sands recommended that Deseille be silenced and that the Indians receive the money due them
                    ("if any") after the payment of their debts only when they had moved west. Instead
                    of refuting the priest, Col. Pepper ordered him on May 16 either to leave Twin Lakes or to suffer
                    arrest as an undesirable alien. On May 20 Sands explained this to Deseille, accusing him of
                    defending the Pottawatomi only because they had deeded property to the Catholic Church. The
                    missionary departed, declaring that Bishop Reze of 
                        Detroit
                     would obtain authority for his return by threatening to remove every Catholic priest
                    from the 
                        United States
                    .39
            
            The dispute was cut short on September 26, 1837, however, when Deseille died at 
                        South Bend
                    .40 The authorities made no objection to the arrival of his
                    successor, the Rev. Benjamin Marie Petit, in November following.41 Petit was a
                    newly-ordained young priest who had come to 
                        Vincennes
                     from 
                        France
                     the previous year.42 During his residence at Twin Lakes he became
                    resigned to the removal of the Indians, attempting only to alleviate their situation,43 and the agents of the government were content to withhold financial support from the
                        mission.44
            
            But Menominee was still obdurate. The time limit allowed him and his tribesmen expired on August 5,
                    1838, but co preparations had been made for departure. The following day Col. Pepper called a
                    council at the village, read the treaty to an assemblage of white residents and Indian chiefs, and
                    pointed out that the land now belonged to the government. The reaction, along with
                    Menominee's eloquent speech, is recorded by McDonald:
            
               
                  38
                        Mid-America, IV. 183–184.
               
                  39
                        Ibid., 183–188.
               
                  40 Go Decker. op. cit., 347.
               
                  41
                  Annales. XI, 386–387 : Baptismal Register, Notre Dame University.
               
                  42 Godeeker. op. cit., 273, 277.
               
                  43
                        Annales, XI, 380–396.
               
                  44
                        Mid-America, IV, 191–192.
            
            
            
                    It was plain to those present who were familiar with the Indian character that there was great
                        dissatisfaction among them and a spirit of rebellion which, if not suppressed, would probably
                        lead to serious results. The leader and principal spokesman for the Indians was
                        Me-no-mi-nee…. When Col. Pepper had made his final appeal and all had had their say,
                        Menominee rose to his feet and, drawing his costly blanket around him, is reported by one who
                        was present to have said in substance:
                    "Members of the Council: The President does not know the truth. He, like me, has been
                        imposed upon. He does not know that you made my young chiefs drunk and got their consent and
                        pretended to get mine. He does not know that I have refused to sell my lands, and still refuse.
                        He would not drive me from my home and the graves of my tribe, and my children, who have gone to
                        the Great Spirit, nor allow you to tell me your braves will take me, tied like a dog, if he knew
                        the truth. My brother, the President is just, but he listens to the word of young chiefs who
                        have lied; and when he knows the truth, he will leave me to my own. I have not sold my lands. I
                        will not sell them. I have not signed any treaty, and will not sign any. I am not going to leave
                        my lands, and I do not want to hear anything more about it."45
               
                
            But Menominee had an unwarranted faith in President Van Buren. The council disbanded, and an ominous
                    lull of a few weeks followed. Tension became acute between the Indians and the white settlers who
                    wished to occupy the reserve. Some of the latter petitioned the Governor of Indiana, David Wallace,
                    for protection.46
            
            Col. Pepper immediately secured the Governor's approval for the raising of a hundred
                    volunteers under the command of Gen. John 
                        Tipton
                    , who enrolled the force within forty-eight hours.47 This body of
                    militia arrived unheralded at Twin Lakes and immediately began collecting the surprised Indians, 120
                    of whom were rounded up on August 30 and 714 by September 1. Forty-two more were brought in on the
                    3rd, and, on Tuesday the 4th, the caravan, consisting of 286 horses belonging to the Pottawatomi and
                    twenty-six wagons as well as the armed escort, set off.48
            
            Petit went to 
                        South Bend
                     before "the quarrel between the Indians and the whites" and
                    afterwards protested that the redskins had been seized to the number of 800 by the ruse of calling a
                        council.49 The chapel was "preempted by 
                  
                     45 McDonald, op. cit., I, 20–21.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., 23.
                  
                     47 McDonald, op. cit., I, 23.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., 26.
                  
                     49
                            Andes, XI, 393; McDonald, op. cit., I, 26.
               
                     an American" on August 5.50
                    
                        Tipton
                     invited the priest to accompany the emigration, and Petit, at first restrained by his
                    prudent Bishop, finally accepted on September 7, three days after the emigrants had started west.51
            
            The story of the transportation has been fully told elsewhere.52 The Catholic
                    missionary, aghast at the soldiers' cruelty,53 joined the expedition at 
                        Danville
                     on September 16 and two days afterward was praised by Gen. 
                        Tipton
                     in his report to Governor Wallace as follows: 
                        Three of the principal men [Indians] … expressed a wish to be governed by the
                            advice of their priest (Mr. Petit, a Catholic gentleman). … It is but justice to
                            him to say that he has, both by example and precept, produced a very favorable change in the
                            morals and industry of the Indians; that his untiring zeal in the cause of civilization has
                            been, and will continue to be, eventually beneficial to those unfortunate Pottawattomies
                            when they reach their new abode. All are now satisfied and appear anxious to proceed to
                            their new homes, where they anticipate peace, security and happiness.54
                  
                    
            
            
               
                        Tipton
                    's report, dated September 18, 1838, from Sandusky Point, 
                        Illinois
                    , is of interest not only because it reverses the government's earlier attitude
                    toward missionaries, but also because it gives a justification for the policy of the authorities
                    which Governor Wallace used and which the Office of Indian Affairs at 
                        Washington
                     uses today.55 With this in mind, it appears useful to examine the
                    document in some detail.
            After reporting the safe arrival of 859 Pottawatomi, 
                        Tipton
                     remarks: "Three persons improperly called chiefs—Menominee, Black,
                    Wolf, and Pepinawa—are of the number."56 To state that
                    Menominee, Mackatawmoah,57 and Pepinawa were not chiefs seems strange in view of
                    the fact that the government acknowledged them as such in the treaty of 1832 and—except
                    for Menominee, who refused to sign—in the treaty of 1836.58 The only
                    explanation appears to be 
                  
                     50 McNamara, op. cit., I, 72.
                  
                     51 McDonald, op. cit., I, 26: Annales, XI, 393–394.
                  
                     52 McDonald, op. cit., I, 25–33 ; Stuart,
                            "Deportation of Menominee and His Tribe," loc. cit.,
                            265–265 : Polke. "Journal, loc. cit.,
                            316–336.
                  
                     53
                            Annales, XI, 394.
                  
                     54 McDonald, op. cit., I, 26–26.
                  
                     55 In a letter from the Librarian of the Office of Indian Affairs in
                            the writer's possession.
                  
                     56 The number on the monument to Menominee.
                  
                     57 The Indian name for "Black Woll' (Annales, XI, 401) and spelled various ways in the treaties, including
                            Muckkahtahmoay and Macatawmoway (McDonald. op. cit., I, 16, 22, 36).
                  
                     58
                            Compilation of Treaties, 680, 712.
               
                     that since these three stood against the removal, and it was
                    necessary to procure the consent of all the chiefs, the government simply declared them no longer
                    chiefs.
            
               
                        Tipton
                     owned "large tracts of land around 
                        Logansport
                    ,"59 a fact which may color his account of the dispute over
                    real estate between the Indians and the settlers. He proceeds to tell how, between August 15 and 20,
                    the Pottawatomi "chopped the door" and threatened the life of one Mr. Watters, who
                    had pre$eUmpted the 160 acres he thought he was entitled to. "Ten or
                    twelve" Indian cabins were then burned, and the militia appeared in time to prevent
                    bloodshed. The redskins were assembled and detained "near the chapel," and, the
                    General continues: 
                        I did not feel authorized to drive these poor, degraded beings from our state, but to remove
                            them from the reserve and to give peace and security to our citizens. But I found the
                            Indians did not own an acre of land east of the 
                                Mississippi
                            ; that the government was bound to remove them to the Osage
                            River, to support them one year after their arrival west, and to give to each
                            individual of the tribe 320 acres of land.
                    
            
            
               
                        Tipton
                     blamed the treaty of 1832 and the illegal document of 1834, negotiated by William
                    Marshall, for the beginning of the conflict, implying that the Indians' rights should have
                    been bought up entirely at the outset. He declared that Menominee refused to sign the treaty of 1836
                    because "he could not possess himself of a moiety of the land and endow the chapel with the
                    balance", neglecting to mention that the government had given Menominee title to the
                    property in 1832, and, after all, the Chief's motives in regard to a possible disposal of
                    it were not pertinent to the issue.
            The General emphasized the absence of bloodshed in his operations and the good treatment the
                    Pottawatomi received from his soldiers.60 The latter statement is not borne out
                    by Petit's memoir or by the "Journal" of Judge William Polke, the
                    Conductor appointed by the Governor. The priest asserts that the Indians were "prodded by
                    bayonets" and so closely confined in wagons that many died of heat and suffocation.61 There are mentioned twenty-seven deaths of children 
                  
                     59
                            Encyclopedia of Biography of Indiana, 
                                Chicago
                            , 1895. I, 351–352.
                  
                     60 This and previous references to 
                                Tipton
                            's "Report" are taken from McDonald, op.
                                cit., I, 25–27.
                  
                     61
                            Annales. XI, 394, 402–404.
               
                     and eleven of adults in Polke's
                        "Journal."62 Petit agrees with this estimate and thinks
                    that about one hundred Pottawatomi escaped.63
            
            This, of course, was not an extraordinarily great proportion of fatalities when it is considered that
                    there were more than 800 Indians, that the distance was 665 miles, the elapsed time sixty-one days,
                    and the season extremely unhealthful.64 Stuart implies that 150 died,65 but this is an exaggeration probably arrived at from Petit's
                    approximation of the number missing.
            The fatalities are sufficiently numerous, however, to justify Dunn's term, "The
                    Trail of Death,"66 especiglly when it is considered that from the
                    Indians' point of view, and possibly from the historian's, they were the result of
                    injustice.
            Whatever the reason for their expulsion, the Pottawatomi arrived at their destination, the western
                    bank of the Osage River in 
                        Kansas
                    , on November 4, 1838. Here their Conductor, one of the original proprietors of 
                        Plymouth
                     and a personage who knew well how to deal with Indians to the whites'
                    advantage, left them.67
            
            The Pottawatomi were turned over to the local Indian agent, a Mr. Davis,68 and to
                    the Rev. Christian Hoecken on their arrival. The latter tells what happened there in 1838 and 1839:
                        
                        Another band called the 
                                Wabash
                             and 
                                St. Joseph
                             Pottawatomies arrived; it was on November 4, 1838. They came here along with
                            Rev. B. Petit, from Indiana. This Father had been among them six months, and he remained
                            with me two months (propter infirmitatem), to recover his health and strength [he was
                            mortally ill], and then departed from this place on January 2, 1839.
                        By the advice of their pastor, these Indians immediately constructed a church 40 feet long
                            and 22 feet wide; and by means of wood and bark and canvas they raised shanties for a
                            temporary shelter, until they could select a fixed abode. For this purpose, we determined to
                            explore the country, soon after the late addition to our members, and setting out we
                            discovered the land which we now occupy on Sugar Creek…. We remained, however, on
                            the old ground at Pottawatomie Creek, until March, 1839….
                        
                     
                        62 Polke, "Journal." loc.
                                cit., 315–336.
                     
                        63
                                Annales. XI, 408.
                     
                        64 McDonald, op. cit., I. 280: Polke,
                                "Journal," lac. cit., 315–336.
                     
                        65
                                Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII. 263.
                     
                        66 Jacob P. Dunn, True Indian Stones, 1909, p.
                                237.
                     
                        67 Polke. "Journal." loc.
                                cit., 333–335: McDonald, op. cit., I. 147, 188.
                     
                        68 Polke. "Journal," loc.
                                Cit., 334.
                  
                        
                        In March, 1839, during the season of Lent, all our Indians moved off to the river called
                            Sugar Creek. The first work done at the new settlement was to build a log church.69
                  
                    
            
            Petit died in 
                        St. Louis
                     on February 11, 1839, on his way back to Indiana,70 but his work
                    was carried on at the mission near the site of the present St. Mary's College.71 The subsequent history of the Pottawatomi of Twin Lakes is not our present
                    concern. Suffice it to say that many died within a few years, some were removed to 
                        Oklahoma
                    , where their descendants may be found today, and a comparatively small number remained
                    in 
                        Kansas
                     to mingle with the thousand or more Pottawatomi from different sections of the country
                    who people the reservation there.?72
            
            The ultimate fate of Menominee is of more particular interest, and fortunately it can now be
                    revealed, for the first time. According to the son of an early settler, he refused to leave Twin
                    Lakes peaceably and was confined in the chapel until the moment of departure.73
                    He was undoubtedly one of the six chiefs who were treated as prisoners of war during the first
                    thirteen days of the emigration and whom Petit prevailed upon Judge Polke to release at Dandle, upon
                    the priest's word that they would not try to escape.74 The death and
                    burial of the heroic Menominee is recorded in two terse entries in the records of the 
                        Kansas
                     mission: 
                        Died, on 15 April 1841, Alexis Menominee.75
                  
                        On 15 April 1841 Alexis Menominee was buried, aged about 50 years.76
                  
                    
            
            The chapel at Twin Lakes, which had first been taken by an American settler on August 5, 1838, and
                    then used as a guardhouse from August 30 to September 4 following, was torn down, and by 1908 no
                    trace of the village, the chapel, or the adjoining graveyard could be found.77
                    Through the efforts of McDonald a replica of the place of worship was 
                  
                     69 "Excerpt from the Diary of Father Christian Hoecken of the
                            Pottawakomie Mission at Sugar Creek…." The Dial, St.
                            Mary's College. 
                                Kansas
                            , June, 1890. v. I, no. 4, 2.
                  
                     70
                            Anndes, XI, 398–399.
                  
                     71 John Rothensteiner, History of the Archdiocese of 
                                    St. Louis
                                
                     , 1928. I, 683.
                  
                     72 Correspondence of Rev. Henry Willmering, S. J., of St.
                            Mary's College, 
                                Kansas
                            , with the author.
                  
                     73 McDonald, op. cit., I, 31.
                  
                     74
                            Annales, XI. 402.
                  
                     75 Translated from a Ms. Parish Register, St. Marys, 
                                Kansas
                            , 1841, 75.
                  
                     76 Translated from a Ms. Burial Register, St. Marys. 
                                Kansas
                            , 1841, 30, entry 101.
                  
                     77 McNamara. op. cit., 72: McDonald. op. cit., I, 30–31.
               
                     erected in 1909 and dedicated on September 4 of that year.78 This was destroyed by fire sometime before 1923,79 and it
                    has not since been replaced.
            An inscribed tablet which was a part of this replica is now on exhibition in the 
                        Plymouth
                     Public Library. It reflects the same error as that on the rock referred to at the
                    outset of this article, reading as follows: 
                        Menominee Chapel at Chi-chi-pe Ou-ti-pe (Twin Lakes). Erected by Rev.
                            Stephen Theodore Badin, First Catholic Priest Ordained in U.S. 1793, Born in 
                                France
                            , 1768, Died in 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1853. He was succeeded by Rev. Louis De Seille, 1832 to 1837. And
                            the latter by Rev. Benjamin M. Petit, 1837 to 1838. When the Indians Were Removed and
                            the Chapel was forever closed.
                    
            
            
               
                  78 McDonald, op. cit., I, 61–62 : Culver Citizen, September, 9. 1909.
               
                  79 Minnie Swindell, The Story, of 
                                Marshall County
                            
                  , 1923, 17.
            
         
         
         
            Medicine, Pioneer Style, 1825⋆
            
            OLIVER W. ROBINSON
            
            More than a hundred years ago there was published at 
                  Versailles, Kentucky
               , a most
                    amazing medical book—a heterogeneous conglomeration of scientific terms, personal
                    philosophy, and recipes for herb medicines. The author, a self-styled physician, was Richard Carter;
                    and the printer —who executed the volume surprisingly well for the year 1825 in the
                    wilderness—was John H. Wilkins of the Commonwealth Office. The title of the book reads in
                    part: "A Valuable, Vegetable, Medical Prescription, with a Table of Detergent and
                    Corroborant Medicines to Suit the Treatment of the Different Certificates"—these
                    certificates being affidavits in favor of Doctor Carter's remarkable and versatile
                        healing.1
            
            Viewed as a whole, the contents of this exhausting book are somewhat reminiscent of Burton's
                        Anatomy of Meluncholy, though of course as far as literary style is concerned
                    it is blasphemous to mention Burton's classic and Doctor Carter's "yarb
                    book" within the same paragraph.
            The latter begins with a long harangue on the inevitability of death—obviously Doctor
                    Carter is preparing his patients for the worst if it should come—and then, as though
                    foreseeing that some day a special article would be written about him, he obligingly set forth an
                    autobiographical sketch.
            Richard Carter was born on the South Branch of the Potomac River in 
                        Virginia
                    , July, 1786, the son of a half-Indian woman and an Englishman who had been
                    "regularly bred to the practice of physic in 
                        London
                    " but who, after coming to America, had been crippled and forced to exchange
                    his profession for the sedentary work of a shoemaker in order to support his wife and two children.
            Of his childhood Richard Carter regrets only that he did not receive harder and more frequent
                    beatings, for—he observes—many a man is saved the hangman's noose by
                    being properly trained in youth. He especially ridicules the discipline of a mild 
                        Virginia
                     schoolmaster who merely made 
                  
                     ⋆ This article, in a shorter form, was published in The 
                                Louisville
                            
                            Courier-Journal of January 10, 1937.
                  
                     1 A copy of Dr. Carter's medical book is owned by Mrs. Roy
                            Smiley of 
                                Washington
                            , Indiana.
               
                     young Dick, for being naughty, stand on a block and point at a
                    hole in the wall for an hour or two! There is nothing like stripes to develop character, according
                    to Doctor Carter.
            Indeed, during adolescence, his own character suffered from his too often "kissing
                    black-betty"—a subtle way of admitting that he drank too much liquor. However,
                    he finally pulled himself together and set out to see the world.
            After covering most of 
                        Virginia
                    , he returned home, entered school once more, and began to take learning seriously. When
                    he had exhausted the local teachers—probably not a very difficult task—he went
                    to visit an uncle living near Marietta, 
                        Ohio
                    . There he studied botany and "herbology" under an Indian doctoress
                    "reputed uncommonly skillful." Next he studied under an Indian man, an authority
                    on pulsation, the healing of wounds, and the cure of "cronick complaints" ! Lastly
                    he topped off his education by reading his father's medical books—so diligently
                    that he almost lost his eyesight. No doubt this study accounts for his partly scientific or at least
                    pseudo-scientific vocabulary.
            From the period of preparation to his establishment as a successful practicing physician in Garrard
                    County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , no transition is attempted. The book jumps immediately to a series of affidavits that
                    are always long in praise of Doctor Carter and often scathing in comment on his medical colleagues.
                    Strangely enough, these numerous affidavits are usually signed and attested by the same two dozen
                    people. Here is a sample: 
                        [Paint Lick] Garrard County, 
                                Kentucky
                            
                  
                        I do certify that in the year of our Lord 1810 I was taken with the dropsy and became very
                            low. I sent for a doctor and mended a little, but never left me but still grew worse for two
                            years. I then applied to Doctor R. Carter, who gave me medicine from which I recruited very
                            much, so that I thought I was well, but it returned again and swelled all over my system. It
                            appears that there wm no chance for my recovery; even my eyes were swelled like bladders of
                            water, and my feet and legs swelled to that degree that they burst and ran a great deal.
                            Then Doctor Carter began to administer medicine to me again … and he continued to
                            give me medicine until I became sound and well, and have not taken any of his medicine for
                            about thirteen months, during which time I have been perfectly well. When I commenced taking
                            medicine of Doctor Carter I was about fifty years of age, and since that I have had a fine
                            daughter. … I have visited Eliza Lasure, whom Doctor Carter attended on, and who
                            was given out to die by all of the family with whom she lived, so that I sent for  her parents to come and see her die; but Doctor Carter came and
                            attended on her, by which she got immediate relief and soon got well. Likewise another young
                            woman at the same house, by the name of Sarah Silvy, was in a deplorable condition, so that
                            she would die away with fits, and for a long time there would be no appearance of life.
                            Doctor Carter attended on her also, and she soon got well. Given under my hand this 6th day
                            of March 1817.
                        Sarah Lasure
                        Attest: Henry Rogers, Nathaniel Lewis, Cassander Lewis, John Wolfscale, Richard Wright, Fanny
                            Lewis, Samuel Lewis.
                    
            
            Now let us quote Doctor Carter himself in respect to that same case of Sarah Lasure. As is frequently
                    his habit, he presents his report in verse:
            A Few Lines of Poetry Composed on the Above Complaint This woman aged fifty years 
                        The dropsy had, as it appears; Who was laid low and almost gone, Until her legs did burst and
                            run. While at the point of death she lay Without the hope of the next day, Then by
                            God's blessing and my skill She was restored, sound and well. Observe the means
                            which I did give Has almost made the dying live, And from affliction now has freed And made this aged woman breed.
                  
                    
            
            But dropsy was not the only disease that Doctor Carter could put to rout. He was equally successful
                    in treating tuberculosis and cancer—if we may believe his affidavits and his case
                    reports: 
                        This woman was brought low and weak, Consumpted so she scarce could speak; But by my simple
                            means and skill, She is restored sound and well; Likewise she had a cancer too, With which
                            she knew not what to do; But by the means which I prepare She nothing has now but the
                        scar.
                    
            
            Doctor Carter's prescriptions for two such serious maladies as consumption and cancer may
                    well be included here. For consumption, the patient was to "get unslaked lime and put it in
                    water until the water becomes slippery; into a gallon of which you must deposit a little bag
                    containing dried groundivy leaves, horehound roots pulverized, sweet annes seed beat  fine, and a tablespoonful of English rosin. Take three table-spoonfuls
                    a day in a little new milk and keep to a light cooling diet." The doctor also reports that
                    the lye of hickory saplings "has done wonders" for weak lungs and phthisic.
                    Furthermore, "the patient will do well to take a new-laid egg every morning on a fasting
                    stomach, well mixed with a gill of new milk and half as much fresh spring water, a little loaf
                    sugar, and a little wine."
            For cancer, Doctor Carter suggests a salve to be made from pennyroyal, camomile flowers, mullein, and
                    one-half gallon of apple vinegar. After this mixture has been boiled twenty-four hours, we must add
                    salt and a gill of honey; then we are to simmer the mixture down to a salve—which is to
                    be applied to the cancer with a feather. The salve is to be supplemented by Tereton's drops
                    and later by a wash containing "lapiscalaminaris, salmoniac, corrosive sublimate, and
                    lunarcostic, in a pint of strong wine." To the pioneer 
                        Kentucky
                     physician, it would seem, cancer presented almost no problem, at all!
            Concerning yaws—"which negroes like to have in order to escape
                    labor"—Doctor Carter observes: "The ailment never spreads by miasma
                    floating in the air but by physical contact." His prescription is blue stone or blue
                    vitrol.
            He also has a treatment for diabetes—a curable disease, he believed, in its first stages.
                    He recommends alum—as much alum as can be held on the point of a, case knife in a gill of
                    new milk three times a day. Other medicines for diabetes are elixer of vitrol, jesuits'
                    bark, and good wine.
            His discussion of cataracts is likewise memorable. First of all, Doctor Carter defines, a cataract as
                    being "a membrane in the posterior chamber of the aqueous humor or inspissated pus floating
                    in the aqueous humor." Such cataracts proceed from diseases of the stomach, but treatment
                    should begin by repeated burning of the shins with caustic! Meanwhile eye-water of white vitrol and
                    sugar of lead will be helpful. A related disorder, gutta serena, or palsy of the
                    optic nerve, is treated thus: "Give pukes and cup temples."
            All the preceding remedies, however, are pale in comparison with this one: 
                        For Gout, Rheumatism, Cramps, and Weak Nerves
                        Kill the fattest young dog that you can get, in the month of March or April; clean him as you
                            would a pig; gut him; and stuff his belly  with a pint of
                            red fishing worms, a pint of red pepper, a considerable portion of the bark of the root of
                            sassafras, and water frogs; then sew up the incesion, roast the dog well, and save the oil
                            to annoint sores, gouts, weak nerves, etc.—guarding against getting wet and
                            exposure of every kind.
                    
            
            Then he blithely follows with another, of which the title is most amusing: 
                        For Old Running Sore Legs
                        Press the juice out of ripe elderberries and boil it down to the consistency of molasses;
                            then take a tablespoonful of the same, night and morning inwardly, and apply salve (quick
                            silver, aquefortis, tar, and lard) to the sore, abstaining from the use of bacon, cider,
                            spirits, etc. This treatment has cured distressed sore legs and even the consumption when it
                            was entered in the second stage. It is good to keep the bowels open and to cool inward
                            fevers.
                    
            
            Probably the climax of all Doctor Carter's prescriptions is reached in the apparently
                    popular and frequently referred to remedy "for billious, nervous, and putrid fevers, and
                    the pleurisy." Here is the unbelievable remedy: 
                        Receipt the 57th
                        Get a double handful of the bark of the roots of dogwood, a handful of ground ivy, a handful
                            of mullein roots, and a handful of the bark of the roots of sassafras; boil them all well
                            together in water, strain the sirup and put it in a vessel to itself, and then get a quart
                            of good clean cow dung and put it in a tight little linen bag and boil it well in water;
                            then strain it with the other sirup, boil it down to a quart, bottle it, and add a
                            teaspoonful of refined nitre.
                    And this concotion was recommended to purify the system and to increase the appetite!
            Notwithstanding the foregoing preoccupation with physical ailments, Doctor Carter also treated mental
                    abnormalities. He discussed hysteria at some length—pointing out that women are subject
                    to hysteria and men to "hypos" or attacks of hypochondria. Both disorders amount
                    to the same thing and require the same treatment: letting blood flow freely from the foot, having
                    agreeable company, bathing feet before going to bed, and taking three grains each of calomel and
                    alloes followed by castor oil. Gold filings taken night and morning in honey or bear's gall
                    with rum were also recommended as helpful.
            If the cause of a woman's hysteria happened to be jealousy, Doctor Carter gave her this
                    advice: "Make as good a trade of a bad bargain as you can, and give your husbapd  good words. See how honey will gather flies and vinegar drive them
                    away."
            Another type of hysteria is described in the case of an old dame who complained of a cold head.
                    "AS a remedy she wore a cap, three handkerchiefs, and a bolster of feathers on it; and yet
                    she complained it was cold." For once, Doctor Carter admits that he did not have any great
                    success in treating her.
            Similarly, as a typical example of a hypo, there is a description of a man who thought his stomach
                    contained a shoemaker and a complete set of shoemaker's tools. In this case a satisfactory
                    cure resulted from some clever chicanery on the part of the physician. First the patient was
                    blindfolded and "given a thorough puke." Next, timed with each exertion of the
                    patient's vomitting, a tool was dropped on the floor. Finally a naked boy was likewise
                    dropped on the floor. Then the patient, after being permitted to see the remarkable dis-gorgement,
                    felt perfectly normal and happy once more.
            Strangely enough, Doctor Carter considered lockjaw, epilepsy, cramps,, St. Vitus' dance, and
                    nervous "cholic" all as phases of that same hypochondriasis. Nervous
                    "cholic," for instance, or "wind in the blood," is caused by
                    sudden heats and cold, coffee, hard drinking, or sitting up too late!
            Other amusing observations of the frontier physician are too numerous for more than random and
                    deleted quotation: "If worms and teething both meet in one child, it causes a more stinking
                    breath;" "Whatever is contrary to nature in the patient ought to be
                    removed;" "If any application is likely to do more hurt than good, it should be
                    abandoned;" "In gardening ne'er this rule forget—to sow when
                    dry but set when wet;" "The calls of nature should never be postponed. Delicacy is
                    a virtue, but that which induces persons to risk their health or hazard their lives cannot be deemed
                    a genuine virtue."
            The volume, just two pages short of five hundred, draws to a close with an Indian lexicon, a glossary
                    of scientific terms, some models for aspiring young letter writers, a list of Doctor
                    Carter's eight students—one of whom, Issac Westerfield, was extremely promising
                    after four months of study—and a series of essays on God, Man, and the Devil.
            A single excerpt from the essay on Adam is—despite the vague pronouns—too good
                    to be passed over: "When God called on Adam, he laid it [the blame for sinning] on the  woman, the woman on the serpent, and he—a sly,
                    cunning old dog—pretended to be speechless: he had no one else to cast the blame
                    on."
            Of course, in looking back over the old medical book, we laugh and label Doctor Carter as something
                    little short of Quack; yet for his time and opportunities he no doubt did as well as we can have any
                    right to expect. There is even something heroic about his precept that "in mortal diseases
                    it is better to employ uncertain remedies than to abandon the patient to certain death." He
                    probably saved the lives of a few patients and killed several others, but to many he must have
                    brought at least some mental comfort.
            Furthermore, he was not superstitious—he would have nothing to do with charms, and he
                    specifically mentions the folly of believing in witches and spells. For that enlightened attitude,
                    he surely deserves credit.
            There is a pleasing touch of modesty in the last line of one of his self-advertising doggerels, which
                    will serve as a closing quotation in this portrayal of Doctor Carter's book: 
                        Behold this female in distress, Whose pains and fever I can't express; Observe, she
                            in her bed appears, While friends around her shed their tears: But when my medicine she
                            took, With speed her sad disease was broke: So she was by my physic blessed, As also were
                                'most all the rest.
                    
            
            
               
                  2 Incidentally, many of the prescriptions were planned on such a grand
                        scale that cauldrons and b.rrrels would have been reiluired for actually making the
                    medicine.
            
         
         
         
            
               
                        Virginia
                     C. Meredith
            H. S. K. BARTHOLOMEW
            
            Noted women of Indiana have been very generally neglected by writers of biographical sketches. The
                    state has had, however, many women who distinguished themselves in widely different fields.
                    Outstanding among them was 
                        Virginia
                     Claypool Meredith, who for a full century held a conspicuous place in the
                    state's activities.1 Mrs. Meredith came of illustrious lineage. Her
                    ancestry, she could trace back to Richard the Lion-Heart; yet she set little store by that, holding
                    that such things serve to minister only to one's vanity. She regarded it of more
                    significance than her immediate forebears were men and women of sterling worth who did their part in
                    the building up of a great state. Her grandfather, Newton Claypool, was a pioneer, coming from 
                        Virginia
                     when central Indiana was almost an unbroken wilderness. To a rude cabin he brought his
                    young bride from 
                        Ohio
                    . They rode two hundred miles on horseback in winter time, resting over-night at the
                    pioneer taverns along the trails and roads which had been but little more than marked for colonists
                    in quest of new homes. In this cabin, her father, Austin B. Claypool, was born, and grew up amidst
                    the hardships and privations of a pioneer settlement. No doubt these untoward surroundings and the
                    hard labor which was the necessary accompaniment of frontier life helped to develop the sturdy
                    character that made him the ideal citizen which he became on growing to manhood.
            The oldest of eight children, 
                        Virginia
                     Claypool was named after the native state of her grandfather. Growing up in a home of
                    culture and refinement, she began at an early age to manifest those admirable traits for which she
                    was noted throughout her long life. In this home, it was the good fortune of the writer, along with
                    Prof. Troop of Purdue University, to spend a night more than thirty years ago. We were the state
                    speakers at a farmers' institute in 
                        Connersville
                    . At the close of the first afternoon session, Mr. Claypool came to us, not with an
                    invitation, but with a command to spend the night at his home. We were comfortably quartered at a
                    fine hotel but so insistent was he that we could not decline. It is needless to say that the evening
                    could not have been made more enjoyable for us. Mr. Claypool was not only a well educated  man for his day but he was rich in the experiences with intimate
                    contacts with men of important affairs throughout a long and busy life had brought him.
            When 
                        Virginia
                     was twelve years old the Civil War broke out. Those stirring times made a deep and
                    lasting impression on her. The Claypool family was intensely patriotic and the members active
                    participants in all that was going on in their community. These things were talked over in the home,
                    the father wishing his children to know all about the ordeal through which the country was passing.
                    The alert daughter entered into those affairs with all the zest of youth and cheerfully did anything
                    that could be done by one, of her years. When Morgan made his raid into Indiana she loaned her
                    saddle horse to a young man who joined the volunteer cavalry that went out to drive back the
                    invader. She said that was her part in the preservation of the Union.
            Of her college life she said in later years: "I went to Glendale College near 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Father's chief demand was that we should be public spirited. He insisted that
                    I should read the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Gazette and other daily papers. So I spent my time in the college reading room,
                    devouring the editorials and dispatches of three or four papers a day. In this way I formed a taste
                    for keeping up with current news which has stayed with me." Graduating at the age of
                    nineteen, she spent the next two years at home. In view of her career as we knew her, it requires no
                    stretch of imagination to picture her as an interested learner of the art of home making. When she
                    was twenty-one she was united in marriage with Henry 
                        Clay
                     Meredith, son of General Solomon Meredith, one of the most conspicuous figures in
                    eastern Indiana. The Meredith homestead of four hundred acres was famous throughout the greater part
                    of the 
                        United States
                    . Its splendid herds of Shorthorn cattle and Southdown sheep attracted visitors from all
                    over the land. The spacious home, noted far and wide for its hospitality, was open at all times to
                    all comers. From the first, the young bride assumed a large part in the entertainment of the guests.
                    At the death of the senior Mrs. Meredith two years later, the entire burden fell upon her. In
                    addition to the individuals whose visits were frequent, public sales of stock were held from time to
                    time. Those were notable events in livestock circles and attracted crowds of buyers and spectators.
                    It became the  duty of the young wife to act as hostess on these
                    occasions and she never failed to measure up to what was expected of her.
            After twelve years of this active and busy life, she was left a widow. General Meredith had died
                    several years before. The situation which confronted her would have appalled one less courageous and
                    less resourceful, but she decided to do the almost unheard of thing—to carry on. She had
                    learned to know the requirements of the cattle and sheep and she employed an experienced herdsman to
                    care for them under her vigilant supervision. The breeds were kept up as before. Buyers who came to
                    visit the farm found the same high quality in the animals as in former years. Not only did she
                    succeed in satisfying the buyers who came as they had been doing for years, but she also continued
                    the public sales for which Oakland Farm had long been famous.
            As early as 1883, because of her knowledge of the science of breeding and caring for pure-bred live
                    stock, she began to receive invitations to address breeders conventions and also the State Board of
                    Agriculture. Toi those who had not made her acquaintance her knowledge of her subjects and her gift
                    as a speaker were a revelation. As the years passd, the invitations came more frequently and she
                    acquired more than a local reputation as a public speaker. Her pleasing personality and her musical
                    voice, together with her earnestness and sincerity, eventually made her one of the most popular
                    speakers in the state. As a result when the farmers' institutes were established in 1889,
                    she was one of the first to be invited by the superintendent of institutes to becomq a member of his
                    staff of state speakers. With the exception of the six years that she was preceptress of the
                    girls' school at the University of 
                        Minnesota
                    , she continued in the institute work for almost twenty-five years. She was in 
                        Elkhart County
                     six times, and the last time her addresses were received with as much favor as the
                    first. She would no doubt have been invited back again had she not retired from that work soon after
                    her last appearance.
            Her splendid services in Indiana extended her reputation beyond its borders and she was frequently
                    invited to other states, where her work was accorded the full meed of praise. In the early
                    eighteen-nineties she was called to deliver several addresses in the historic city of Vicksburg, 
                        Mississippi
                    .  This was not long before the death of the lamented
                    Henry W. Grady, who had become the idol of the South. In one of her talks she took occasion ta pay
                    him an eloquent and well deserved tribute. It captivated the audience and the cheers that followed
                    were deafening. From that time on, her appearance on the platform was awaited with eager interest by
                    her hearers. The last session brought her a surprise that completely overwhelmed her. At the close
                    of her final address, the president of the institute presented her a gold medal upon which were
                    inscribed these words: "The Citizens of Vicksburg, 
                        Mississippi
                    , to the Queen of American Agriculture." The appropriateness of the title was
                    recognized where-ever she was known. Almost forty years later, to be exact, in 1930, 
                        Wisconsin
                     gave her the reward for eminent service, an honor never accorded to any other woman
                    outside the state. The award read: "To 
                        Virginia
                     Claypool Meredith who, working alone, won success in farming and later, working with
                    others, pioneered effectively in the science of home making." This tribute tells in a few
                    words the story of her life and her achievements.
            While she spoke occasionally on one or another phase of live-stock husbandry, the greater number of
                    her addresses were on home making. She was the first to dignify home making by speaking of it as a
                    profession and declaring it to be in every way as important and honorable as the so-called learned
                    professions, law, medicine and the ministry. One of her most popular addresses was on
                    "Privileges and Possibilities of Farm Life," which she was asked to deliver in
                    many counties throughout Indiana and which always made a most favorable impression on her audiences.
                    In this address, she called the attention of farmers' sons and daughters to the
                    opportunities which the farm offers to bright young men and women and urged them to remain where
                    they could be useful and honorable citizens, instead of being fascinated by the illusive attractions
                    of the city with all of its snares and pitfalls. There is no doubt that this talk helped to keep on
                    the farm many a bright boy and girl who otherwise would have been enticed to the city, where
                    hundreds have gone with hopes of winning fortunes, only to eke out a bare existence as clerks or
                    factory workers. It is no exaggeration to say that her earnest and eloquent pleas to the young
                    people in her audiences helped to prepare the way for the splendid work  which the 4H clubs are doing today. However, Mrs. Meredith's
                    greatest work throughout those years was in behalf of the home and the home maker. At first but
                    little heed was given to her advice because of the almost universal opinion that a girl could learn
                    in her mother's kitchen all that was needed to qualify her for this most important calling.
                    This would have been true had all mothers been what Mrs. Meredith's mother was, but she
                    knew how sadly lacking a great many mothers were in the qualifications necessary for them to
                    properly train their daughters. In spite of the indifference of many parents, she kept on in the
                    work she had begun, believing that in due time the seed she was sowing would bear fruit.
            It was her dream to see at Purdue University a department for the girls which would be what the
                    agricultural department was for the boys—a place where they could be fitted for their
                    life work. For a long time her pleading with the authorities there fell on deaf ears. It needed an
                    actual demonstration to convince the trustees and faculty of that institution that such a department
                    was both desirable and feasible and that demonstration she herself was able to furnish. From far off 
                        Minnesota
                     came a call to her to take charge of the girls' school which was being
                    established at the Agricultural College of that state. At first she declined, fearing that she could
                    not measure up to the responsibility, but repeated urg-ings finally induced her to accept. Her
                    position was that of Preceptress in the School of Agriculture, which was in session for six months
                    each year. This School was connected with the College of Agriculture at the University. There she
                    found an opportunity to put into practice the things she had been advocating so many years. Six
                    years she taught the girls who went there in quest of the training which would fit them to become
                    home makers. When she resigned her position to return to Indiana, she left behind her a school which
                    was and still is the pride of the people of 
                        Minnesota
                    . During those six years she spent the summer months at her Indiana home.
            Her absence from home during six months of the year did not interfere with the operation of her farm.
                    Her trusted herdsman gave the stock the same care that he did when she was there and her herds and
                    flocks lost none of their popularity. On May 17, 1900, the news was flashed over the entire state
                    that Oakland Farm, made famous by the Meredith  family, in whose
                    possession it had been for three-quarters of a century, had been sold and every paper of any
                    consequence carried the story to its readers. Though Mrs. Meredith had become greatly attached to
                    it, an offer came, so tempting that she could not refuse to sell. She bought another farm south of 
                        Cambridge City
                     which she christened Narborough Farm. This continued to be her home until 1916, when
                    she disposed of it and moved to West 
                        Lafayette
                    .
            It is necessary in this connection to tell of another side of Mrs. Meredith's life. Several
                    years after the death of her husband, a very dear friend died in 
                        Cambridge City
                     leaving a small daughter and son, Mary and Meredith Matthews. This friend's
                    dying request was that Mrs. Meredith should take those children and rear them in her own home. This
                    request was complied with and throughout the years that followed she was a real mother to them
                    bestowing upon them all the affection that any mother could and giving them both a liberal
                    education. When Mrs. Meredith went to 
                        Minnesota
                    , the foster daughter was just at the right age to enter the new school for girls and
                    she received the thorough training which its curriculum provided. In the course of time the
                    authorities at Purdue University awakened to the necessity of providing a department for the girls
                    of Indiana. Mrs. Meredith's work in 
                        Minnesota
                     had been watched from Purdue and no doubt had much to do with this awakening. Over this
                    department, Miss Mary Matthews was placed and she is still there as its Dean. This accounts for the
                    sale of Narborough Farm and the removal to the University city.
            At the World's Columbian exposition in 1893, Mrs. Meredith was the lady manager for Indiana
                    and also was chairman of the committee on awards. This necessitated a stay of several years in 
                        Chicago
                    , but she came home every two weeks during all that time to look after her farm and to
                    give directions concerning its management. Throughout those years, she was one of the busiest women
                    in the Middle West.
            Along with her many other activities she found time to interest herself in club work. She was a
                    member of the Helen Hunt Club of 
                        Cambridge City
                     from the time of its organization, and when she was at home was a regular sattendant at
                    its meetings. During the existence of the Indiana Union of Literary clubs, she was a conspicuous
                    figure at its sessions and a helpful counselor on all matters relating to its welfare.  After it was merged with the Federation, she was active for many years
                    in that body and was twice chosen as its president, the only one to be accorded that honor. In 1918,
                    she was made honorary president, and every year her appearance was greeted by every member rising.
                    This custom was kept up until the infirmities of age made her attendance impossible.
            In the conventions of this and other literary bodies, she came in contact with many of the most
                    brilliant women of the state and nation and she proved to be the peer of any of them. Many of the
                    most gifted literary women of the country visited her in her home, and she felt herself as much at
                    ease in entertaining them as she did when farmers and livstock breeders were her guests. Her home
                    was one of the most hospitable in the state of Indiana, and people of high and low degree alike were
                    welcomed there. On two differnt occasions, the writer had the rare privilege of being entertained
                    there and can speak as one who knows.
            In 1921, Mrs. Meredith was appointed a member of the board of trustees of Purdue University, the
                    first woman who ever held that office. She proved herself both capable and resourceful in that
                    position, and she exercised as much influence as any of the men in that group. She was a regular
                    attendant at the board's sessions, even after she found it necessary to give up attendance
                    at all other public meetings. Not until ill health made it impossible for her to leave her home did
                    her attendance cease.
            When the Indiana Home Economics Association was organized in 1913, she was elected as its first
                    president and was twice re-elected. No other president has been accorded that honor, the term of
                    service now being limited to a single year. She continued her interest in that organization as long
                    as she lived, even though for a number of years she was unable to attend its meetings.
            For several years she conducted the home department in the Breeder's
                    Gazette, a live-stock journal to whose columns she had been an occasional contributor for many
                    years. On her page appeared from her pen many articles which were eagerly awaited from week to week
                    by the readers of the publication.
            Her address on "Privileges and Possibilities of Farm Life" has been published in
                    every English speaking country  throughout the world. Its
                    concluding paragraph will give the reader some idea of the sentiments it expresses: 
                        Let us dignify our calling; let us exalt our home on the farm by making it the abode of
                            intelligence, refinement and comfort—the abode of peace. Let us make much of our
                            farm and our farm life, let US cherish its privileges, let us realize its possibilities. The
                            farmer alone, of all men, has a home. When we read descriptions of the ideal Southern home,
                            is it not the home on the plantation? When we read of the typical New 
                                England
                             home, is it not the farm home? When we read of the hospitality and good cheer
                            of the western home, is it not the country home? The family, that great institution ordained
                            by the Father, should find nowhere else such congenial conditions for its development. Dr.
                            Hough, in his report on forestry, tells us that the oak grown in free air weighs twice as
                            much as that grown in dense shade. May not the boy grown in free air develop more manliness
                            than one dwarfed by the close crowding of other natures? It was the wife of a Jewish rabbi,
                            who, laying her hand upon the head of her black-eyed boy exclaimed: "this is
                            immortality". That mother was willing to rest her claims to immortality upon what
                            she made of her child. And must not he who achieves immortality by pen or picture give
                            precedence to the mother that guides a child into true and noble living?
                    
            
            Mrs. Meredith died on December 10, 1936, at the age of eighty-eight years. It can be truthfully said
                    that no more useful life was ever lived in the state of Indiana. She lived to serve others and in
                    that service she found greater satisfaction than in her own marvelous achievements. Her death called
                    forth tributes, hearty and sincere from those who knew her best. The 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    Journal of December 11, in a well written editorial, summed up her life work, as
                    well as the oustanding traits of her character. Its concluding paragraphs are here reprinted: 
                        Whether as an aggressivee, successful stock-raiser, carrying on the large business of a
                            departed husband; as a messenger to farmer's institutes, passing on her own
                            experiences to men and women; as an orator contacting groups in many states; as an educator
                            establishing new ideas and modern methods, or as the distinguished trustee of a university,
                            Mrs. Meredith was ever a valued contributor to the public good. She had very definite ideas
                            as to the aims and functions of Purdue University as a sound factor in the education of
                            young womanhood for home making.
                        Keen of wit, zestful, humorous, quick at repartee, sure in decision as between right and
                            wrong; courageous and frank in support of her convictions, Mrs. Meredith combined in one
                            vibrant and friendly personality those myriad qualities that make for leadership.
                        Neither titles nor medals of precious worth, nor the applause of thrilled multitudes may
                            express with any measure of adequacy the significance  or
                            extent of the great service she rendered to her state, to Purdue University and to those who
                            were fortunate to know her as friend and counselor.
                    
            
            The following appropriate tribute was paid her by the Board of Trustees of Purdue University: 
                        With sincere sorrow this Board records the death of Mrs. Virginia Claypool Meredith at her
                            home in West 
                                Lafayette
                            , December 10, 1936, at the age of eighty-eight years. This tribute to one who
                            was a valued friend and colleague for the past fifteen years comes not alone from the
                            Trustees, as an official Board, but also from them as individuals.
                        Mrs. Meredith was a woman of rare qualities, of great intellectual strength, of highest
                            ideals, of gracious personality. She was meticulous in the discharge of all her duties as a
                            trustee, and while her special interest was in the women of the university—for
                            whom many of her dreams and aspirations were realized—the problems of the
                            university as a whole engaged her mind to an extent and with a completeness that was indeed
                            remarkable.
                        Mrs. Meredith was not only a brilliant woman, of wide interests, with a comprehensive grasp
                            of many difficulties that beset the Board, but she was also a loyal and understanding
                            friend, wise in her counsels, keen but kindly in her criticisms. She was ever alive to world
                            conditions and world problems, yet vitally interested in the home and its influence. She was
                            a delightful hostess in a home which one entered with joy and left with a consciousness of
                            uplift and of blessing.
                        Words, no matter with what depth of sincerity they are spoken, are after all an evanescent
                            tribute. In the work she did, in the lives she helped in the inspiration she gave, Mrs.
                            Meredith created her own enduring memorial.
                    
            
         
         
         
            The Geography of Indiana's Governors
            STEPHEN S. VISHER
            
            A study of birthplaces and various other geographic facts relative to the governors and lieutenant
                    governors of Indiana has revealed several little known facts of interest. Since 1816, when Indiana
                    came into the Union, thirty-five men have been governors of the State.'
            Under the Constitution of 1916, the governor's term was three years, but since the second
                    constitution went into effect in 1851, the term is four years. Before 1851 a governor could be
                    reelected, but since then a governor is not eligible for a second consecutive term. Before 1851,
                    three governors served single terms of three years each. Two were reelected and served six years
                    each, while two others who were reelected did not fill out the second term. Joseph A. Wright was
                    elected for a three year term in 1849. While he was governor, the second constitution was framed and
                    ratified, and he was made eligible for the four year term, which was to begin in January, 1853. In
                    the period of three-year terms, governors were inaugurated early in December, but since 1852, their
                    terms begin in January. Governor Wright, therefore, served a little more than seven years (Dec.,
                    1849 to Jan., 1857).
            Including Governor Wright, and not counting the present incumbent, fourteen governors have served
                    full four-year terms. Sime 1857, four governors elected for four years did not serve out their
                    terms. Before 1849, there were two governors who served less than one year each, Ratlif 
                        Boone
                     (1822 )and 
                        Paris
                     C. Dunning (1849). Since 1857, there have been two governors, each of whom served more
                    than four consecutive years, Oliver P. Morton and Conrad Baker. Each was first elected to the office
                    of lieutenant-governor, and becoming governor was eligible to election for four years. Each served
                    about six years—Morton from January, 1861 to February, 1867, and Baker from
                    Morton's resignation to January, 1873. Governors since 1857, who served less than four
                    years, include elected governors who either died or resigned and lieutenant governors who became
                        
                  
                     1 Included in the list are all who filled the office no matter how
                            long, and also the present incumbent, Governod M. Clifford Townsend. whose term does not end
                            until Jan., 1941.
               
                     governors, but were not continued in office by election.2 Three elected governors since 1857 died while in office, and three
                        resigned.3 Four lieutenant governors who were not continued in office by
                    election, served partial terms as governor, one of whom was later elected for a four-year term.4 Twenty-nine governors have been elected directly by the people. Indiana has
                    had thirty-three lieutenant governors, eight of whom resigned to become governor and did not fill
                    out their terms. Five of these eight "promoted" governors were born outside of
                    Indiana.
            During the earlier years of statehood, governors and lieutenant governors of Indiana were natives of
                    older states, partly because most of the people in the state came from older areas and partly
                    because men who came to Indiana from other states had enjoyed the advantages of educational training
                    and administrative experience which commended them to our citizens. Indeed, not before 1860, did
                    Indiana contain many native-born men old enough in years and political experience to reach the
                    governor's chair. In 1820, Indiana's population was 147,178; in 1830, 343,031. In
                    1840, it was 685,866, and by 1850, the number had reached almost a million people; by 1880, almost
                    two million.
            Before 1881, when Albert G. Porter, a native of Law-renceburg (
                        Dearborn County
                    ), was elected governor, only one nativa Hoosier had been governor. This earlier
                    native-born governor was Oliver P. Morton (1861–67), of 
                        Wayne County
                    . Between 1881, when the second native Hoosier became governor, and 1917, when Samuel M.
                    Ralston, the last governor who was not a native Hoosier, retired, just half of the ten governors
                    were born in Indiana. In the period since 1917, all the governors of the state have been Hoosiers.
                    Since 
                  
                     2 Ratlif 
                                Boone
                             served for a few months in 1822 after the resignation of Governor Jennings. 
                                Paris
                             C. Dunning served for about ten months following the resignation of Governor
                            Whitcomb in 1849. Abram A. 
                                Hammond
                             served for a few months following the death of Governor Willard in October,
                            1860. Henry S. Lane served for a few days in January, 1861. having agreed to resign when,
                            named as the Republican candidate for governor in 1860. should Republicans control the
                            legislature. In this contingency, he was ta be elected 
                                United States
                             Senator and was to be succeeded by Oliver P. Morton, who consented to run for
                            lieutenant-governor on these conditions. The bargain was carried out. Isaac P. Gray served
                            for a few months after the death of Governor Williams in 1880. Gray did not continue in
                            office but was elected in 1884 and served a four-year term. Ira P. Chase served more than
                            half of a term, due to the death of Governor Hwey in 1893. Emmett Forest Branch became
                            governor on the resignation of Governor McCray in 1924 and served until January, 1925.
                  
                     3 Governors who died in office since 1857 were: Ashbel P. Willard
                            (1857–1860). James D. William$ (1877–1880). and Alvin P.
                            Roves (1889–1891). Governors who resigned were Henry S. Lane (1861). Oliver P.
                            Morton (1861–1867). and 
                                Warren
                             T. McCray (1921–1924).
                  
                     4 Isaac P. Gray, who filled out a term (1880–1881) and was
                            elected in 1884 to serve a full term (1885–1889).
               
                     1905, all of the lieutenant governors have been natives of
                    Indiana except F. Harold 
                        Van
                     Oman (1925–1929). Not one of Indiana's governors was born in a
                    foreign country.
            The men born outside of the state, who served as governors of Indiana, came predominantly from the
                    states to the east and southeast. Only one, J. Frank Hanly, born in 
                        Illinois
                    , not far from the Indiana border, came from west of Indiana. No governor came from
                    north of the state. Other closes neighbors furnished several: 
                        Kentucky
                     gave us three governors and two lieutenant governors,5 and 
                        Ohio
                     was the native state of four Indiana governors and four lieutenant governors.6 Since many early colonists came to Indiana from the Carolinas and 
                        Virginia
                    , it is not surprising that several early governors and lieutenant governors were born
                    in that region. 
                        North Carolina
                     yielded 
                        Paris
                     C. Dunning, who was lieutenant governor (1846–1849), and then governor
                    (1849). 
                        Virginia
                     furnished one governor.7
                    
                        Georgia
                     gave us Ratlif 
                        Boone
                     who was, successively, lieutenant governor (1819–1822), governor (1822), and
                    lieutenant governor (1822–1825). Our Pirst governor, Jonathan Jennings, was born in 
                        New Jersey
                     and the first lieutenant governor, Christopher Harrison, was born in 
                        Maryland
                    . 
                        Pennsylvania
                     was the birthplace of five Indiana governors, three of whom had previously been
                    lieutenant governors. One additional lieutenant governor was born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .8
            
            Relatively few colonists came to Indiana from New 
                        England
                    , but two governors and one lieutenant governor were natives of that section.9 Two governors and four lieutenant governors were from upstate 
                        New York
                    .10
            
            Since 1893, the only governors who were not born within Indiana were natives of adjacent states:
                    Claude Matthews, 
                  
                     5 Governors born in 
                                Kentucky
                            : James 
                                Brown
                             Ray (1821–1831). Henry S. Lane (1861). and Claude Matthews
                            (1893–1897). Lieutenant governors born in Kentuck: 
                                Milton
                             Stapp (1828–1831). John H. Thompson (1825–1828).
                  
                     6 Governors born in 
                                Ohio
                            : Samuel Bigger (1840–1843). Thomas A. Hendricks
                            (1873–187'7). James D. Williams (1877–1880), and Samuel M.
                            Ralston (1913–1917). Lieutenant governors born in 
                                Ohio
                            : Mahlon D. Manson (1885–1887). Martimer Nyo (1893–1897).
                            William S. Haggard (1897–1901), and Newton W. Gilbert (1901–1905).
                  
                     7 Noah Noble (1831–1837) was from 
                                Virginia
                            .
                  
                     8 Governors born in 
                                Pennsylvania
                            : William Hendricks (1823–1825). David Wallace
                            (1837–1840), Joseph A. Wright (1849–1867). Conrad Baken
                            (1867–1873). and Isaac P. Gray (1880–1881 and 1885–1889).
                            Of these Wallace, Baker and Gray each served as lieutenant governor before becoming
                            governor. Another native of 
                                Pennsylvania
                             who served as lieutenant governor was David Hillis (1837–1840).
                  
                     9 James Whitcomb (1843–1849) was a native of 
                                Vermont
                            , as was also Abram A. 
                                Hammond
                             (1860–1861). The latter was lieutenant governor
                            (1857–1860).
                  
                     10 Governors born in 
                                New York
                            : Ashbel P. Willard (1857–1860). and Ira J. Chase
                            (1891–1893). Willard was lieutenant governor (1853–1857) and Chase
                            (1889–1891). Another lieutenant governor from 
                                New York
                             was Jesse D. Brightr (1845–1845).
               
                    
                    
                        Kentucky
                    ; Samuel M. Ralston, 
                        Ohio
                    ; J. Frank Hanly, 
                        Illinois
                    . F. Harold 
                        Van
                     Orman, lieutenant governor (1925–1929), was was born in 
                        Michigan
                    . Ira J. Chase who was elected lieutenant governor and became governor on the death of
                    Alvin P. Hovey in 1891, was the last governor to come from a distant state. He was born in 
                        New York
                    .
            During the early decades of Indiana's statehood most of the people lived in the southern
                    half of the state. Consequently, early governors were residents of southern Indiana. It is
                    interesting, however, that a very large majority of the early governors resided in the eastern
                    portion of southern Indiana. That section had only a few more people than did southwestern Indiana,
                    which contained much rich land in the lower 
                        Wabash
                     area and had several early settlements, including the state's oldest town, 
                        Vincennes
                    , and also 
                        New Harmony
                    , for some decades the most famous settlement in Indiana. The southwestern quarter of
                    the state, aside from Bfoomington, that furnished three, was the residence of only two of the men
                    who became governors during the first fifty years of statehood."11
            
            As already stated, the southeastern part of the state furnished more than the southwestern. 
                        Madison
                    , on the Ohio River in 
                        Jefferson County
                    , was the residence of one governor and of two lieutenant governors.12
                    
                        Brookville
                     of 
                        Franklin County
                    , furnished two governors and one lieutenant governor.13 Two early
                    governors resided in Clark and Rush counties, respectively, while one lieutenant governor lived in 
                        Washington County
                     and another in 
                        Clark County
                    .14
            
            During approximately the first one-third of the state's history
                    (1816–1856)' no governor and only one lieutenant governor resided north of the
                    National Road when elected. The exception was Samuel Hall (lieutenant governor,
                    1840–1843) who resided in 
                        Logansport
                    .
            
               
                  11 Three governors who served before 1866 that resided in 
                            Bloomington
                         when elected were: James Whitcomh, 
                            Paris
                         C. Dunning, and Joseph A. Wright. The other two who resided in southwestern Indiana
                        at the time of election during the first fifty years of statehood were: Ratlif 
                            Boone
                        , and Abram A. 
                            Hammond
                        . Each was elected to the office of lieutenant governor and each held the higher
                        office but a short time.
               
                  12 The governor from 
                            Madison
                         was William Hendricks. The two lieutenant gwernors were: 
                            Milton
                         Stapp and Jesse D. Bright.
               
                  13 The governors from 
                            Brookville
                         were: James 
                            Brown
                         Ray (two terms) and Noah Noble (two terms). The lieutenant governor from 
                            Brookville
                         was David Wallace. who removed to 
                            Jefferson County
                         before his election to the office of governor.
               
                  14 The governor from 
                            Clark County
                         was Jonathan Jennings, and the one from 
                            Rush County
                        , Samuel Bigger. The lieutenant governor from 
                            Washington County
                         was Christopher Harrison, and the one from 
                            Clark County
                        , David Hillis.
            
            
            The fourteen different men elected to the office of governor or lieutenant governor, or both, during
                    the second forty years (1857–1896), nearly all resided in a belt about seventy-five miles
                    wide across the southern part of central Indiana. No governor or lieutenant governor came from the
                    northern third of the state. The three governors from the southern tier of counties resided in
                        Ohio River cities.15 One governor came from 
                        Indianapolis
                     and three others from within thirty-five miles of that city.16
            
            During the third forty years (1897–1936), the residences of governors were rather
                    centrally located, ten of the twelve governors residing within sixty-five miles of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Only Governor Thomas R. Marshall and 
                        Warren
                     T. McCray resided less than fifty miles from the state's northern border.
                    Three of the lieutenant governors of the period, however, resided in southern or northern border
                            counties—
                  Steuben, St. Joseph
               , Vanderburg.17
            
            Since the beginning of the Civil War, 
                        Indianapolis
                     has been the pre-election residence of only one man who was elevated to the
                    governor's chair—Albert G. Porter—and of none elected lieutenant
                    governor. On the other hand, 
                        Lafayette
                     has been the residence of two governors and two lieutenant governors.18
            
            Thirteen natives of Indiana have served as governor and ten natives as lieutenant governor. Three
                    lieutenant governors of the ten natives became governors—Oliver P. Morton, who succeeded
                    Henry S. Lane, Emmett Forest Branch, who filled out the term of Governor McCray, and M. Clifford
                    Townsend, who is now serving as Governor.
            During the first eighty years of statehood (1816–1896), only three Hoosiers became
                    governor, all of whom were born near the borders of the State—Morton in 
                        Wayne County
                    ; Albert B. Porter in 
                        Dearborn County
                    ; Alvin P. Hovey in 
                        Posey County
                    . In brief, all of the native governors and lieutenant governors of the first eighty
                    years of the state's history 
                  
                     15 Governors from Ohio River cities: Ashbel P.
                            Willard (1867–1860), Conrad Baker (1867–1873), and Alvin P. Hovey
                            (1889–1891). Baker was also lieutenant governor (1865–1867).
                  
                     16 The governor from! 
                                Indianapolis
                             was Albert G. Porter. The three who lived within a radius of thirty-five miles
                            were: Henry S. Lane (
                                Crawfordsville
                            ), Thomas A. Hendricks (Shelhyville), and Ira J. Chase (
                                Danville
                            ).
                  
                     17 Newton W. Gilbert lived in 
                                Angola
                            , William P. O'Neal at 
                                Mishawaka
                            . and F. Harold 
                                Van
                             Orman at 
                                Evansville
                            .
                  
                     18 Governors from 
                                Lafayette
                            : J. Frank Hanly (1905–1909), and oHarry G. Leslie
                            (1929–1933). Lieutenant governors: Mortimer Nye (1893–1897). and
                            William S. Haggard (1897–1901).
               
                     (1816–1896) came from the southern half of the state,
                    all but one from the southeastern part. The exception was Hovey from 
                        Posey County
                    .
            Since 1896, ten natives of Indiana have served as governor and eight as lieutenant-governor. Two of
                    the governors also served first as lieutenant governors. The distribution of the birthplaces of
                    these eighteen men is radically different from that of the earlier group just discussed. Only six of
                    the fifteen were born in the southern half of the state and four of these six were born within about
                    thirty miles of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Only one came from an Ohio River town. This was Winfield T.
                    Durbin who was born in 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     but elected from Anderson. The other hailing from southern Indiana was Lieutenant
                    Governor Bush of 
                        Salem
                    .
            The northern half of the State yielded none of the governors who served from 1816–1896,
                    but it yielded nine of the twenty-three governors and lieutenant governors of the period
                    1897–1939. Of these twenty-three more recent executives, only one was born in the
                    unglaciated part of the state, and only two in the most recently and intensively glaciated section
                    known as northern Indiana. Eleven of the fifteen came from the broad level stretch of fine fami land
                    known as central Indiana.
            A considerable majority of the governors and lieutenant governors, apparently, were born on farms. Of
                    Indiana's thirty-five governors, fourteen appear to have been born in towns and twenty in
                    the country; of the thirty-eight lieutenant governors, probably seventeen were born in towns and
                    twenty-one on farms. Most of these future administrative leaders soon left the farm, however. Only
                    seven of the thirty-five governors and five of the thirty-one lieutenant governors resided on farms
                    in the years immediately preceding their electiqn to office.19
            
            As Indiana has been a great agricultural state throughout its history and as the farm population
                    included a major proportion of the population until after 1900, it is somewhat surprising that so
                    few farmers have been governors or lieutenant governors. Perhaps it is an illustration of the fact
                    that, as a group, farmers are not politically ambitious. It may also be an illustration of the
                    well-known fact that it is 
                  
                     19 When the birthplace or residence of a governor or lieutenant
                            governor is given as a county inskd of m a town or city, the author has assumed that he was
                            horn on a farm or lived on a farm. The assumption may not be correct in every
                        instance.
               
                     characteristic of farmers that they are highly individualistic,
                    and hard to consolidate behind a particular movement. Hence they often let others do the leading.
            Most of Indiana's governors were lawyers—twenty-four out of thirty-five. Several
                    combined law with some other profession such as teaching, banking, or writing. All of the early
                    governors were lawyers or professional politicians. The governors who were not lawyers, or not fully
                    devoted to the law, included four farmers, three public officials (usually lesser state officials),
                    three teachers, two bankers, and two editors.
            Even though most of Indiana's governors were lawyers, only twenty of the thirty-five
                    governors attended college. Four of the governors describe themselves as self-educated and ten
                    mention only common or public schools Of the twenty who attended college, two graduated from Indiana
                    University (Branch and McNutt); two attended DePauw (Porter and Goodrich); two attended 
                        Hanover
                     (Hendricks and Porter); 
                        Wabash
                     College graduated Marshall; Purdue graduated Leslie; 
                        Valparaiso
                     University and the Central Normal College of 
                        Danville
                     were attended by Ralston, and the 
                        Marion
                     Normal College helped to train Townsend. Eight of our governors graduated from
                    out-of-state colleges. Wallace was from West Point; Bigger from 
                        Ohio
                     University; Whitcomb from Transylvania University; Wright and Baker from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     colleges; Willard from 
                        Hamilton
                     College; Morton from Miami University; and McNutt from the 
                        Harvard
                     Law School as well as from Indiana University.
            The first three men who served as Governors of Indiana (1815–1825) were affiliated with
                    the Republican party which was founded by Jefferson. James 
                        Brown
                     Ray (1825–1831) was a Jackson man or Demoeatic Republican. Noah Noble
                    (1831–1837) was elected as a no-party candidate, but he was really an Adams-
                        Clay
                     man, or National Republican.20 David Wallace (1837–1840)
                    was elected on an internal improvement platform, but adhered to the Whig Party. Samuel Bigger who
                    followed Wallace (1840–1843) was a Whig. The next five governors (1843–1861)
                    were Democrats.21 The three governors who served from 1861 to 1873 were members
                    of 
                  
                     20 The Whig party wan not born until 1854.
                  
                     21 James Whitrmb. 
                                Paris
                             C. Dunning, Joseph A. Wright, Ashbel P. Willard. and Abram A. 
                                Hammond
                            .
               
                     the Repubilcan Party that was born in 1854.22 Three Democratic governors followed (1873–1881 ).23 During
                    the next four years, there was a Republican governor.24 He was succeeded by a
                    Democrat. Two Republicans then filled out a four year term (1889–1893).25 Again there was a Democratic governor (1893–1897),26 but he
                    was followed by three Republicans, each serving a full term (1897–1909).27 Two Democratic governors followed (1909–1917).28 For sixteen
                    years, Republicans headed the state (1917–1933).29 From 1933 to the
                    present, the gubernatorial chair has been filled by Democrats.30 The alternation
                    of parties in regard to the governor's office has been very marked in Indiana, revealing
                    clearly that parties have competed on practically even terms. This has added to the importance of
                    Indiana—a doubtful northern state—in national politics.
            
               
                  22 Henry 5. Lane, Oliver P. Morton. and Conrad Baker.
               
                  23 Thomas A. Hendrlcks, James D. Williams, Isaac P. Gray.
               
                  24 Albert G. Porter.
               
                  25 saac P. Gray (1886–1889) waa the Democrat, who WBB followed
                        by Alvin P. Hovey and Ira J. Chsae, Ffmublicans, who, together, served four years.
               
                  26 Claude Matthm.
               
                  27 James A. Mount, Winfield T. Durbin, and J. Frank Hanly.
               
                  28 Thomas R. Marshall and Samuel M. Ralston.
               
                  29 James P. Goodrich, 
                            Warren
                         T. McCray, Emmett F. Branch, Ed Jackson. Harry G. Leslie.
               
                  30 Paul V. McNutt and M. Clifford Townsend.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            The development of a state-wide organization of junior historical societies, including high school
                    history clubs, has proceeded as stated in the December issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History. The committee on permanent organization has had several meetings and has drawn up
                    a tentative constitution. The spring meeting of the junior historical societies and high school
                    history clubs will be held at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on Saturday, April 29, with the history club of Shortridge High School acting as host.
            A number of new history clubs have been organized and they have taken up various lines of activity.
                    The latest of which notice has been sent to the Indiana Historical Society was organized at the
                    beginning of this semester at 
                        Washington
                     High School, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Each club organized or projected should send notice, together with the addresses of
                    the president and secretary, to the secretary of the Indiana Historical Society, 408 State Library
                    and Historical Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in order to receive copies of the Indiana History Bulletin which
                    will give information about such organizations and proposed meetings.
            The forthcoming number of the Hisborical Society's Prehistory Research
                    Series is "Hidatsa Texts Collected by Robert H. Lowie with Grammatical Notes and
                    Phonograph Transcriptions by Zellig Harris and C. F. Voeglin." This is Number 6 of Volume
                    I. It contains the story of the "Water Buster" and four other stories as recorded
                    by Dr. Lowie from narrations by Hidatsa Indians in the Dakotas. Each story is followed by an English
                    translation. The texts are annotated with grarnattical notes by Dr. Voegelin and Dr. Harris. A
                    significant innovation is the addition to this issue of the Prehistory Research
                    Series of a phonograph record on which the story of the "Water Buster" is
                    recorded in the actual speech of an Hidatsa Indian. The distribution of the record is necessarily
                    limited to students of the languages of the American Indians. The printed texts will be mailed to
                    libraries that can make use of them, as well as to the interested linguists, philologists, and
                    researchers in phonetics. It is hoped that this number of the Prehistory Research
                        Series
                     will be a distinct contribution to the attempt being made by
                    these scholars to ascertain so far as can be determined by linguistic studies what cultural groups
                    existed among the Indians and what relationships there were among cultural groups.
            Volume 13, Number 2, of Indiana Historical Society Publications, "The
                    Contributions of the Society of Friends to Education in Indiana," by Ethel Hittle McDaniel,
                    of Wilkinson, is in press as this number of the Magazine is being compiled. It
                    will probably be in the hands of the members of the Society by the time the Magazine reaches them. It is for sale at seventy-five cents a copy at the office of the
                    Historical Society, 140 North Senate Avenue, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and at the Bobbs-Merrill Company, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The printing of both Publications of the Society and of the Indiana Magazine of History is dependent upon the payment of membership fees, and
                    the distribution is limited so far as membership in the Society is concerned to those whose dues for
                    the year are paid. Occasionally it is possible to extend the courtesy of continuing names on the
                    mailing list in order that there may be no break in the serials received, but neither the Society
                    nor the Magazine can extend this courtesy very far. As may be inferred, this is a
                    gentle reminder that membership dues should be paid as early as possible in the calendar year.
            The archaelogical section of the Society during the past few months has undertaken the most important
                    task of its active career. The group of prehistoric earthworks known as the Angel Mounds, three
                    miles east of 
                        Evansville
                     on the Ohio River, was purchased in the name of the Society to
                    safeguard it and to preserve it for scientific investigation. Purchase of approximately four hundred
                    acres was necessary in order to secure the group of earthworks. The group is described briefly, with
                    illustrations, in Eli Lilly's Prehistoric Antiquities of Indiana,
                    41–48. The central mound is by far the largest in the state of Indiana. The group is
                    generally considered by archaeologists to be the most important in this part of the country, and it
                    is thought that its scientific exploration will yield information of great significance in the study
                    of cultural developments and relationships.  It should be
                    emphasized here that this information, rather than rare or valuable relics, is the prime object of
                    excavation. The funds necessary for the purchase of the mounds were secured by contributions and by
                    borrowing, with the consent of the donors, from the museum fund of the Society. It is the hope of
                    the Society that the amount borrowed from the museum fund may be restored by the taking over of the
                    mounds by the state of Indiana (A bill to this effect was introduced in the recent session of the
                    General Assembly, but owing to the financial condition of the state treasury was not pressed) or by
                    the local units of government within the boundaries of which the qounds lie. Ultimately, the mounds
                    should be restored as nearly as possible to the condition in which they were when white people came,
                    and maintained as a prehistoric monument.
            A Works Progress Administration project for archaeological work in Indiana has been approved by the
                    President and there is every reason to believe that the necessary funds will be allocated for the
                    proper excavation of the Angel Mounds. Actual excavation cannot be begun until late spring or early
                    summer, as careful surveys must be made after the funds are allocated and before any excavation is
                    undertaken.
         
         
         
            History Teachers' Forum THE CRITICAL ISSUE IN SOCIAL TEACHING⋆
            
            DEWITT S. MORGAN
            
            It is a great pleasure to be with this group again today; with so many of you who have such deep
                    concern for the order and peace of this disturbed and nervous world. From our association throughout
                    the years, I can bear witness that social science teachers have ceased to be conscious of a special
                    responsibility for contributing in a definite way to that social understanding which would beget
                    order and harmony and security. I doubt if, a decade ago, any one of us dreamed that we would come
                    to see such days as these —days when we would hear on every hand phrases such as:
                    "the gravest hour in the world's history," "dictatorship in the
                    saddle," "parliamentary government at the crossroads." These phrases, so
                    laden with anxious forebodings, startle us, but they force us to recognize realities. We know that
                    we face grave issues—that now the whole idea of government by popular will is at stake.
            It is difficult to speak on such a subject as I have chosen, without using many phrases which are
                    trite. In speaking on "The Critical Issue in Social Teaching," one can do no more
                    than set forth our common thoughts about the gravity of our responsibility, so with the
                    understanding that what I say on the subject is not in a spirit of telling but of asking, I venture
                    to speak my concern as to the critical issue which social teaching must face.
            I shall begin with a quotation from Howard Mumford Jones in his article
                    "Patriotism—But How?" He says: 
                        While discussion clubs incline a serious ear to speeches on "Can Democracy
                            Survive?" and our better correspondents smuggle dispatches out of Europe showing
                            that the dictator countries are committing economic suicide, few people seem to inquire why,
                            if the fascist and communist nations are economically insane, they constitute so serious a
                            menace to political democracy.
                    The Jones thesis as to why these nations constitute a serious menace to political democracy
                    is that they have developed a zeal for their political doctrines which we in democratic America seem
                    to have lost for our doctrines. If this 
                  
                     ⋆ This paper was read at the Luncheon of the Indiana
                            Histors Teachers' Association on Dee. 10. 1938, at the Hotel Lincoln in 
                                Indianapolis
                            . The Luncheon was held in connection with the Annual Indiana History Conference
                            of December 9–10. 1938.
               
                     be so, teachers of the social studies are confronted with these
                    questions: Can we teach so as to build a faith and zeal for democracy which can prevail against the
                    fanatical, impassioned zeal which other nations build for their seductive social doctrines? And, Can
                    we do this with methods which are consistent with democratic philosophy and processes?
            Perhaps, first, we should decide definitely whether we shall consider it to be our objective to build
                    faith in and zeal for democracy. Now there are those who will still say, "No, it is not the
                    teacher's task to do this." These believe in stopping short of this objective.
                    They believe we should confine ourselves to the more trepid objective which is usually termed social
                    understanding, and on this they would rely for the security of our institutions. But when doctrines
                    supported only by lukewarm social understanding encounter doctrines carried forward by the momentum
                    of faith and fanatic zeal, they stand to lose. This is the menacing situation which democratic
                    philosophy faces today. Perhaps in the days less disturbed than these, social understanding was
                    enough support for the doctrines of democracy. But now democracy needs more—it needs
                    renewed allegiance—a zeal for it, an abiding faith in it. Other nations are building
                    allegiance to their political philosophies by the use of all the tricks which crowd psychology
                    knows, and the results amaze us. We observe entire populations falling under the spell of political
                    seducers, who with the tricks of banners, and marching bands, and simply worded slogans, build a
                    fanatical devotion which is beyond our usual concept of what patriotism is and ever should be. The
                    penetrating, driving power of this mass emotion which is being set abroad in the world, arising from
                    these methods, is a terrifying thing to all who wish liberty and freedom to survive.
            Are teachers going to do anything about it? For my own part, I believe teachers have a definite
                    responsibility for teaching democratic philosophy—not merely as one of the social
                    philosophies, but rather as our philosophy—the philosophy upon which our institutions are
                    founded—the political doctrine to which we owe every liberty we possess. We are not in a
                    day to debate about democracy, but to proclaim it. And we need faith in it, a zeal for it which will
                    withstand the impact of all the forces which would destroy it.
            How can we get such faith? Shall we stoop to undemocratic 
                    techniques to meet this menace? In the stress of the emergency which we face, we are tempted to
                    fight fire with fire. But we dare not do this, for if democracy stoops to the use of the same
                    political tricks which dictatorships use, then democracy ceases to be democracy. We cannot use those
                    methods and keep faith with democratic ideals, for at the heart of democracy is faith in the
                    dignity, and the worth, and the good sense of each individual. Such faith does not permit of playing
                    with individual emotion to such a degree that political reasoning is befogged and beclouded.
            Thus circumscribed in method and procedure, we must trust that a faith and zeal for democracy builded
                    upon reason, founded upon understanding, resulting in a people of calm assurance of the right, will
                    prevail against fanatical devotion for other doctrines builded from psychological trickery. We have
                    every cause to put our trust in such principles. There is sound reason to believe that faith so
                    built will live through many a test which zeal built upon the play of mass emotions cannot and will
                    not endure.
            If we are to try this course, there are considerations which must be faced squarely. The ficst
                    imperative is to build faith in democracy, not to create doubt about it, to build conviction and not
                    cynicism. To be specific, we have lived through a period when any glib youth with a
                    teacher's license or a college position, who has never himself assumed a single
                    responsibility for an administrative decision, in the name of academic freedcm, could, with
                    insinuating general-ties, cause his pupils to believe that public life is all corrupt. The logical
                    conclusion which youth draws from that kind of teaching and based upon such insinuation, is that the
                    American system itself is a failure. Now sensible people who know all of the truth, know that such a
                    generalization is not fair. There is of course, far too much that is corrupt. But those who know all
                    the truth, know that for every official that is going wrong, there are many, many others who are
                    honestly and conscientiously trying to do their duty—many of them under pressures which
                    are breaking their bodies and their spirits. We need a body of teachers in the classrooms who will
                    teach the whole truth, and if they do, they will teach that we have honesty in public office in
                    abundance. And on this we can build faith, not cynicism. There is much in our nation's life
                    in which we can have faith, much of which we  can be proud. There
                    is so much tradition of liberty and freedom that our history astounds us with the marvel of the
                    quality of our heritage. We do not lack at all for that which will build a faith and devotion to
                    American ideals which will endure and prevail, if we but teach the whole truth. In saying this, we
                    do not wish for any unhistorical history, any doctoring of the true story of American development.
                    All we ask is that the American story be told in its true and correct perspective. There is so much
                    of good that the American story needs no doctoring. What we need, especially, is to teach the good
                    and the bad in their proper and correct proportion; if we do this, we can well trugt to the result.
            I know you are thinking all this means propaganda and indoctrination. You say: "You are
                    asking for propaganda which is in no wise different from that which dictatorships adopt in their
                    educational systems. Because this question always arises, it is necessary that we think clearly as
                    to the distinction between true education and propaganda. Carl Joachim Friedrich recently drew a
                    distinction between propaganda and education which we all need to remember. He says:
                    "Propaganda always aims at getting people either to do or not to do some very particular
                    thing. Education, on the other hand, is fundamentally concerned with moulding and developing a human
                    being in terms of an ideal, as far as his nature allows it." The difference, therefore,
                    hinges on these two objectives. The objective of propaganda is to get people to do or not to do a
                    particular thing. The objective of education is to mold and develop an individual in terms of an
                    ideal. In propaganda, we use the individual for a purpose; in education, we are making him in terms
                    of an ideal. In propaganda, we are interested in what people will do; in education, our concern is
                    what they are.
            Now if our concern is with true education, if this concern is with the developing of human beings in
                    terms of an ideal, we must first adopt the ideal. We must decide what kind of human beings we wish
                    these children of ours to be. In the field of the social studies, I believe that we can decide upon
                    molding our children according to ideals about which we will have no disagreesment. Our ideal would
                    be to develop people who love liberty; who love justice and fair play more than they love gain; who
                    believe in law; who believe in harmony; who love peace; who believe in living according  to the law of kindness rather than the law of cruelty; the law of love
                    rather than the law of hate. In setting forth to mold individuals according to these ideals, we need
                    to realize that such procedure is not propaganda, but education in its truest and finest form.
                    Education, without an ideal, has no point, and no value.
            It is of the utmost importance that the teachers of the social studies see this distinction between
                    propaganda and education clearly. Social studies have been in danger for some years. Our situation
                    has been serious, because much of our social teaching has lacked any philosophy upon which we could
                    base the choice of anything for a teaching purpose. Sometimes it has looked as though the social
                    studies have been nothing more than intellectual ruminating, dawdling here and there over a
                    hodgepodge of facts, with no evidence that there is a central philosophy which ties the facts
                    together. What we teach needs to be taught according to whether it will help us to mold our pupils
                    according to ideals of liberty, justice, fair play, law—and consideration for the dignity
                    and worth of human personality.
            Now this task of molding individuals according to these ideals at once forces us to recognize that
                    the first imperative is to awaken and arouse a new appreciation of the spiritual values which inhere
                    in a democratic philosophy. Development of appreciation is always a difficult educational task, but
                    development of appreciation of anything inherently spiritual is the ultimate in educational
                    difficulty. We must strive to get at the heart of what democracy implies. Its significance does not
                    lie in form of government. It is deeper than that. The true significance of great concern to us lies
                    in the quality of the spirit which runs through all human relationships. It is the unique spirit
                    which democracy brings which we must appreciate. These things which are the unique qualities of
                    democracy are after all things of the spirit. And sometimds they do not immediately result in more
                    food or better clothing; but without these things of the spirit, more food and better clothing are
                    of no use. We must know that whenever democracy begins to sacrifice its unique spiritual values in
                    the interest of material progress, then we are in imminent danger. Whenever our eyes are so focused
                    on rising standards of living that it blinds us to consideration of human rights, we face the menace
                    of traveling the same  road as the other nations of the world. It
                    is sacrifice of human values which characterizes dictatorship.
            Thomas Mann says, in his Coming Victory of Democracy: 
                        Democracy as a whole is still far from acquiring a clear conception … of the
                            fanaticism and absolutism of the totalitarian state. It willingly sacrifices all culture and
                            humanity for the sake of power and victory, and secures for itself in this unfair way
                            advantages and advances in the battle of life such as have never been seen before, whose
                            effect upon civilization is wholly bewildering. And yet, in order to be able to survive,
                            democracy must understand this new thing in all of its thoroughly vicious novelty.
                            Democracy's danger is the humane illusion, the virtuous belief that compromise with
                            this new creature is possible, that it can be won over to the idea of peace and collective
                            reconstruction by forbearance, friendliness, or amicable concessions.
                    
            
            Now what is it of which Thomas Mann warns us? That we must understand this "new
                    thing." And what is the "new thing"? A thing which sacrifices culture and
                    humanity for the sake of power and victory. We must recognize it for whatever it is, and in the
                    classroom strive definitely and specifically to mold individuals to abhor and resent, and reject and
                    oppose that trend toward sacrificing culture and humanity for the sake of power and victory, whether
                    it be at home or abroad. Culture and humanity can be sacrificed too easily for the sake of power and
                    victory. We may not be discerning enough to see it, but the unique things for which democracy
                    stands—liberty, freedom, humanity, culture —can be offered up as sacrifices
                    for material prosperity. Nations can be brought step by step to the insidious belief that they
                    should give up humanity and culture, and liberty, and freedom, in order to have clothing, and better
                    automobiles. This is the insidious temptation which our nation faces. It is the temptation to which
                    other nations have yielded, we fear, to their sorrow.
            In the last analysis, can we so teach that we may cause our pupils to cherish as they should those
                    higher values which inhere in democracy? This is after all the critical issue which we face. Can we
                    cause our pupils really to understand how precious are the rights and privileges of an American
                    citizen? It is important that we teach our pupils how to vote, but that is secondary to their
                    appreciation of the fact that we still may vote. It is important that we teach the
                    processes of our government, but infinitely more  important that
                    we develop individuals with deep-rooted appreciation of the philosophy of our government. Whatever
                    we teach about processes—about elections, organization of our governmental units, tariff,
                    monopoly of public utilities, the courts, taxes, our wars, our national crises—all these
                    need be interpreted according to their bearing upon the growth or limitation of freedom, liberty,
                    humanity, and culture. This is the emphasis which the social studies will need to make if we
                    contribute our part to the preservation of the American system.
            Last night Anthony Eden spoke in 
                        New York City
                    . Undoubtedly you read what he said. I am quoting one paragraph: 
                        We know that we are destined, in our land, in our generation, to live in a period of
                            emergency of which none can see the end. If throughout that testing time, however long or
                            short it be, we hold fast to our faith, cradle it in stone, and set steel to defend it, we
                            can yet hand on our inheritance of freedom, intact to the generations that are to come.
                    
            
            It is obvious that the place where the faith of the American people in democracy will be cradled in
                    stone and where we shall set steel to defend it, as Mr. Eden puts it, will be in the classrooms of
                    our schools. May we trust that we can find the way to do it?
         
         
         
            Documents: "PROCK'S" LAST LETTERS TO THE VINCENNES WESTERN SUN
            In each of four earlier issues of the Indiana Magazine of History, a series of
                    Civil War letters written by Lieutenant William D. F. Landon were published. The pen name of
                    Lieutenant Landon was "Prock." He was a soldier in Company G of the Fourteenth
                    Indiana Regiment. Company G, which became known as the "Invincibles," was
                    recruited at 
                        Vincennes
                    , as was Company B, known as the "Old Post Guards." The first lseries
                    of letters covered the period from July 17 to October 16, 1861; the second, from December 9, 1861,
                    to July 8, 1862; the third, from July 8, 1862, to May 6, 1863; the fourth, from October 24, 1863, to
                    July 1, 1864. "Prock" was wounded at Chancellorsville in 1863, and again on May
                    10, 1864, in the Wilderness. He spent the summers of 1863 and 1864 in a hospital. After the close of
                    the War, he served with a force of volunteer veterans known as 
                        Hancock
                    's Corps. In September, 1865, he was assigned to duty with the Third Regulars
                    and served in 
                        Georgia
                     and 
                        Florida
                     for several weeks. He then severed his connection with the army for a while, and acted
                    as clerk for the Continental Hotel in 
                        Vincennes
                    . In April, 1866, he was given a commission as Second Lieutenant in the regular army.
                    His remaining service was with the Eighteenth Regulars. While stationed at Fort 
                        Leavenworth
                     in the summer of 1866, Lieutenant Landon disappeared and was never seen again. He was
                    believed to have drowned while bathing in the Missouri River on July 8, 1866.
                    From July 1 to November 1, 1865, "Prock" wrote nine letters which were published
                    in the Western Sun. Some of these after-the-war letters appear in full below, with
                    parts of others, and summaries of still others. Those that describe the conditions on certain 
                        Virginia
                     battlefields and the tasks that were performed by the soldiers who were sent there in
                    the summer of 1865 are unique. The letter of July 11, 1865, describing the execution of Mrs. Mary E.
                    Surratt and three men, convicted of complicity in the assassination of Lincoln, is even more
                    unusual.
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp First Regiment U. S. Veteran Vol.
                              
                                 
                                    Hancock
                                 's Corps Near 
                                    Washington
                                 , D. C.,
                           
                                    July 1, 1865.1
                           
                                
                        
                                    Friend Greene:
                                
                        We are once more sweltering in our old quarters at Camp Stoneman, opposite (or nearly
                                    so) 
                                        Alexandria
                                    , Va. Our "Skeleton Hunt" has ended—the
                                    heroes of the fierce and bloody battles of the Wilderness and Spottsylvania, who
                                    offered up their lives in defense of their country's honor and her flag in
                                    those terrible conflicts, are now, at last, reposing in peace beneath the
                                    "sacred soil" of the Old Dominion.
                        I will begin my chapter of accidents and incidents at Gold Mine Camp, on the extreme
                                    right of our line during the fight at the Wilderness. The Sixth Army Corps fought
                                    here, and part of the old First. The "circle" and the
                                    "plain cross" marked the spot where each warrior lay—a
                                    very few had been buried.2 Deployed as skirmishers3 (without arms, of course, these being left in the bivouac under guard),
                                    every fourth man carrying a sack, we commenced the search for skeletons through
                                    woods, thickets, fields and swamps—now by the right flank and changing
                                    directions—now forward again.
                        Three days of this work and we succeeded in gathering a huge pile of grinning,
                                    ghastly skull—the frames of three hundred and fifty Union soldiers. Many
                                    had to be buried where they lay in the swamps and marshes, their remains being too
                                    offensive to handle under the circumstances.
                        A few rebels unburied were found—these were covered with the
                                    "sacred soil" where they lay. Having collected all that a thorough
                                    search could discover, graves were dug near the pike leading to 
                                        Orange
                                     Court House—ten skulls were placed in each coffin, which was
                                    then filled with bones—the lid screwed on, and the
                                    "Corporal's Squad" lowered into their last resting place,
                                    unknown, but not un-honored nor unsung.
                        The first grave yard is sixty feet square and contains thirty-five graves. It is
                                    enclosed with a neat and substantial pailing fence. Each grave bears the following
                                    inscription on the head-board:
                                        UNKNOWN U. S. SOLDIERS, KILLED MAY, 1864
                                    A large board nailed on a tall post with the
                                    inscription—"Wilderness National Cemetery No. 1," marks
                                    the spot.4
                        
                        The task completed we struck tents and moved "left in front," a la Grant, down to "Brock's Cross
                                    Roads." Here we pitched the "dog tents" in a large field,
                                    where the band and drum corps of our brigade lay during the fighting of the 5th, 6th
                                    and 7th of May, 1864. Every foot of ground was familiar—the
                                    bullet-riddled trees the rough, 
                              
                                            
                                    1 Vincennea Wesdsrn Sun. July 8.
                                                1866. Mr. George E. 
                                                    Greene
                                                . editor of the Sun and close friend of
                                                Lieutenant Landon, was very happy to receive a letter from
                                                "Prock" after a long interval of silence. He called
                                                attention to the first letter to arrive for an entire year wtih this
                                                jubilant "Notice":
                                            "Prock Still Lives! There have been many anxious inquiries aa to
                                                our old friend and correspondent 'Prock'. A letter in
                                                today's paper will be a sufficient answer to all such
                                                inquiries. We will let it speak for itself."
                                        
                              
                                 2 That is. more than a year after the Battles of the
                                            Wilderness and more than two yews after the Battle of Chancellorsville.
                              
                                 3 This was in the early summer of 1865.
                              
                                 4 This was a temporary marker nailed on a post by the
                                            veterans after they completed their task of burying the remains of soldiers
                                            exposed to the elements since they were killed in the Battles of the
                                            Wilderness.
                           
                                     rude breast-works partly consumed by fire during
                                    the charge of Log-street's corps on the 6th, 1864—the very spot
                                    on which our own brave little handful of the old Fourteenth piled their knap-sacks
                                    before dashing into the fight on the afternoon of May 5th [1864].
                        We gathered here six hundred and fifty of the bleaching bones of our gallant dead.
                                    Many, as before, we were compelled to bury as they lay. Nearly all the
                                    "Greybacks" were buried—what few
                                    "Johnnies" the summer's sun still shone on we hid from
                                    view. The cemetery here was similar to the one near "Gold Mine
                                    Camp." The only exceptions were that No. 2 was necessarily larger, being
                                    ninety feet square, containing sixty-five graves, ten soldiers in each. Then there
                                    are forty-five small oaks inside the enclosure. There is considerable taste
                                    displayed in the arrangement of these cemeteries. No. 2 is on the left of the
                                    plank-road from 
                                        Fredericksburg
                                     to 
                                        Orange
                                     Court-House, and about a quarter of a mile from the Brock Cross Road.
                        Let me pass on to Spottsylvania: We went into camp just in rear of the rebel works
                                    [of 1864] and within a stone's throw of what is here called "Death
                                    Angel," from the number of dead Johnnies in the trenches after the fight.
                        Sergeant Major Meyer and myself immediately began a search for the grave of the
                                    lamented Col. Coons, and found it after a long and tedious deploy of about three
                                    hours. We procured a coffin and headboard—took our brave old commanding
                                    officer up and placed him in new quarters. He looked natural as he lay in the rude
                                    box that comrades and friends had placed him to rest in over one year
                                    ago—his face was fallen away, of course, but the hair and beard remained;
                                    his blouse was buttoned around him—the arms crossed—boots
                                    still on, and his hat on his breast. I should have known at a glance tbat it was my
                                    gallant Colonel, even had it not been for the characters on the head-board. He lies
                                    under a small apple tree in a garden on the farm formerly owned by Captain John C. 
                                        Brown
                                    . The place is called "Liberty Hill," and the house is
                                    now occupied by a family of free negroes. 
                                        Brown
                                     was a Captain in the war of 1812, and died in 1860.
                        I placed head-boards at the graves of Wm. Runkle, Co. F, and Sergeant Albert Wicks,
                                    Co. G, of the Fourteenth; beside them lays Lieut. C. L. Pettibone, Fourth O [
                                        Ohio
                                    ] Volunteers. These three are sleeping in a deep, dark dell that the
                                    sun-light seldom visits—no other graves are near them.
                        Sergeant Gibson, of Co. H, is buried far off to the left of our line and near the
                                    rebel works; also Ferman, of Co. I, both Fourteenth boys. Many of the boys are
                                    buried with no board to mark the spot.
                        I send you some names of our old brigade, Head-boards were put up to all these, by
                                    our boys of "
                                        Hancock
                                    's Veterans:" J. M. Finch, Co. I, Levi Grimes, Co. H,
                                    William Shindler, Co. H, Serg't Oliver Whittaker, Co. B, W. Curley, Co.
                                    H—4th 
                                        Ohio
                                    , A. Magrum, Co. F, Jas. Gallagher, Co. B, John H. Beatty, Co.
                                    A—8th 
                                        Ohio
                                    .
                        Excuse haste. We have orders to move the camp right off.
                        
                                    More again, soon.
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  6 Fourteenth Indiana Regiment, which included the
                        "Invincibles" (Co. G.) and "Old Post Guards" (Co. B.) of 
                            Vincennes
                        .
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp First Regiment U. S. Veteran Vol.
                              Hancocks Corps.
          Near 
                                    Washington
                                 , D. C.,
                           
                                    July 3, 1866.6
                           
                                
                        
                                    Friend Greene:
                                
                        Since joining this Veteran Corps in December last, I have marched with it over many
                                    (to me) very interesting portions of 
                                        Virginia
                                    . We commenced the campaign in February [1865] at Harper's
                                    Ferry—marched through 
                                        Charleston
                                     and Berrysville to Winchester, where we lay encamped several weeks.7
                        
                        We were on a two weeks' "raid" after the guerrilla chief
                                        Moseby8 in the 
                                        London
                                     Valley—fighting or rather skirmishing md picket firing all
                                    the time night; and day. As we were in "light marching order," or,
                                    as it is called, "fighting trim," it proved a lively and
                                    interesting trip, and though in March, and the weather disagreeable, we all ehjqyed
                                    it hugely, as old soldiers alone enjoy such excitements.
                        Leaving Winchester early in May, we marched through Millwood, 
                                        Paris
                                    , Upperville, Middleburgh, Aldie, and Fairfax to the Long Bridge, and
                                    returned to this our old rendezvous on Geisboro' Point, across the Eastern
                                    branch of the Potomac, called Camp Stoneman. Down on the level plateau fronting the
                                    river are stables for 30,000 horses.
                        We are quartered on tall bluffs overlooking both 
                                        Washington City
                                     and 
                                        Alexandria
                                     and the broad Potomac for miles. Huge forts with flags flying and the
                                    frowning dogs of war peeping from dark embrasures loom up in all directions.
                        But I must not be too tedious in my description of scenery that has so often been
                                    described.
                        Our division, numbering nine regiments (commanded by Brevet Major Gen. S. S. Carroll,
                                    formerly Col. 8th 
                                        Ohio
                                     Vol., and commander of our "Old Brigade" for more
                                    than a year), numbers perhaps 4,000 men out of 8,600 enlisted. Cause of such
                                    reduction, desertion by the d—d "bounty jumpers."
                        Eight of the old 14th are enlisted in the division, and good and true soldiers they
                                        are.9 Our rations for the month's
                                    "Skeleton Hunt" in the Wilderness were the "marching
                                    rations" of hard tack, salt pork, sugar, salt, and coffee—no
                                    fresh beef nor vegetables. Dame Nature fortunately came to the soldiers'
                                    assistance with an abundance of cherries, dewberries, blackberries &c. Our
                                    marches were easy ones, but all made during the heat of the day—from 8 to
                                    4 o'clock—our Colonel (Bird) having a penchant for enjoying the
                                    cool of the mornings and evenings in his tent—not a bad idea, after all,
                                    for the men either, as they had ample opportunity to bathe, &c., before
                                    dark.
                        Well, to commence: We steamed to Belle Plain, 
                                        Virginia
                                    . This is the landing where I embarked with a rebel bullet in my foot
                                    for 
                                        Washington
                                    , May 14, 186410—marched 12 miles next
                                    day [1865] to 
                              
                                 6
                                            
                                                Vincennes
                                            
                                            Westem Sun, July 15. 1865.
                              
                                 7 "Prock" is here going back to the
                                            Isst months of the War, when he was in the Shenandoah Valley.
                              
                                 8 Col. John S. Mosby was the most noted of the rangers
                                            who fought for the Confederacy in the latter part of the War. He was active
                                            in the Shenandoah Valley during 1864 and the early months of 1865. He was
                                            born in 1833 and died in 1916.
                              
                                 9 "Prock" was one of the eight.
                              
                                 10 See Indiana Magazine of History
                                            (March, 1938), XXXIV. 89–98.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              Fredericksburg, Virginia
                           , over a desert, it might be termed.
                                    Few inhabitants were seen in crossing this 
                                        Virginia
                                     Sahara, once the camping ground of the mighty Army of the Potomac and
                                    latterly the Paradise of guerrilla bands.
                        As we pitched tents on the south side of the Rappahanock at 4 o'clock, P. M.
                                    the order to be in readiness to march at 4 A. M. was read. As soon as arms were
                                    stacked of course each man and officer knew what was expected of him. This rule our
                                    Colonel observed throughout the trip.
                        Your correspondent roamed all over the battle field of December 13, 1862,11 No head boards or monuments mark the spot where the gallant
                                    defenders of the old flag fell on that ever-memorable day. The great
                                    "slaughter pen" of Gen. A. E. Burnside is most all under
                                    cultivation, enriched with the blood of as brave men as ever answered their
                                    country's call. I searched the by-ways of the city for headboards of the
                                    burial of our brigade, but found but one of our regiment —the grave of
                                    poor Hutchins, of Company B, "Old Post Guards"—but as
                                    this country is all open now to visitors, sightseers, &c. , friends of those
                                    who have fallen will find no difficulty in procuring permits to visit different
                                    battlefields and gathering the remains of those who perished in the fierce
                                    conflicts.
                        The remains of Chancellorsville Hotel and the out-houses were still visible, portions
                                    of blankets, knapsacks, haversacks, &c. , marked the spot on which two
                                    well-matched contending armies had strived [sic] for the mastery. From
                                        Chancellorsville12 we bore off to the right towards the
                                    extreme right wing of our line of battle in the Wilderness on the 5th of May, 1864.
                                    Operations were commenced on the extreme right where the 6th corps fought, and
                                    continued to Spottsylvania Court-House, 
                                        Virginia
                                    .
                        The first day we "deployed." The squad to which I was attached
                                    discovered a picket post of our men that had been taken by surprise and were shot or
                                    bayonetted to a man in a thick copse of cedars—they lay where none but an
                                    out-post could have been posted.
                        A little further on, near a gold mine and quartz mill, nineteen rebels were found
                                    buried, killed by the bayonet alone, as the rude head-board indicated; and now our
                                    task commenced in earnest. Bodies of our soldiers were thickly strewn through woods
                                    and fields in all directions. There was no difficulty in ascertaining where those
                                    lay who fell in the open field, as the rank growth of weeds marked each spot on
                                    which a soldier lay. Heavy works were in front and the line that charged here
                                    suffered terribly. Everything of value, including weapons, accoutrements and
                                    blankets had been taken.13
                        
                        At one time I was within two miles of Robertson's Tavern, near Mine Run, the
                                    place where the brave Lieut. Geo. Rotramel was buried in November, 1863. Had I known
                                    it at the time I would have procured 
                              
                                 11 The field where the Battle of 
                                                Fredericksburg
                                             occurrfd. "Prock" was in that battle. See ibid. (Scpt. 1937), XXXIII. 338–340.
                              
                                 12 The Battle of Chancellorsville (May 3–7,
                                            1863) was fought in an area that lies between 
                                                Fredericksburg
                                             and the Wilderness.
                              
                                 13 This is a remarkable paragraph, describing as it
                                            does what a soldier who fought in the Wilderness in 1864. found when he
                                            visited the scene in 1865.
                           
                                     a coffin and head-board and given the gallant
                                    fellow a decent burial. No man was more respected in the old 14th Indiana than he.
                        The gold mines at this place were formerly worked by one Hunt from 
                                        New York
                                    . He took in one year $13,000 from them, but the cost of
                                    working them had barely paid expenses.
                        The main line of the rebel works commences at Moreton's Ford, on the
                                    Rapidan, and continues to 
                                        Richmond
                                    , and formidable ones they are, too.
                        Our camp was daily besieged with a crowd of half-starved women and children and a few
                                    "Johnnies" in uniform. All the rations we could spare were freely
                                    given them. They had nothing to offer in exchange but a few onions, lettuce,
                                    cucumbers and other garden vegetables, the demand far exceeding the supply.
                        In the Wilderness, at Brock's Roads, I picked up a block of wood with the
                                    name of, "J. Ackley" on it, on the very ground our regiment
                                    charged over in May, '64. Presuming it formerly belonged to that bully
                                    soldier Jap Ackley, of Company "B," old 14th' I shall
                                    retain it till I see him again.
                        I spent one rainy day in huckleberry hunting in the swamps in front of our old works
                                    at Brock's Roads. The bushes grew as high as a man's head and were
                                    loaded with the luscious fruit. I found here in the midst of the swamps the skeleton
                                    of a tall rebel who had evidently crawled into the thickets, and mounting on a stump
                                    of a large tree watching his chance for a shot at some "Yank," had
                                    been himself picked off. The shot must have been fired from a knoll some five
                                    hundred yards off, the only high ground in the immediate vicinity. The ball had
                                    struck him in the forehead and with just force enough to break through, as I found
                                    it rattling in the skull but slightly battered; his rifle and equipments lay near
                                    him, his body lying across the stump; from a large button on his jacket marked in
                                    the centre with an "R," I inferred he belonged to some rebel rifle
                                    regiment and was "sharp shooting" on his own hook. Two of his
                                    front teeth were filled with gold—I fobbed 'em and the button
                                    also, the rifle and a ball-screw, cone-wrench and pocket comb in his carriage box. I
                                    "chucked" his bones in a sink-hole and scraped the dirt over them
                                    as well as I could with a stick; mounting the skull on the end of the same, I stuck
                                    it in the stump to mark the spot; for any comrade of the "Johnny"
                                    that might hereafter be searching for him. If I had been provided with a spade I
                                    would have done the soldier justice and buried him in the swamp, but I was more than
                                    a mile from camp and probably could not have found the spot again after once leaving
                                    it.
                        The grape and cannister from Arnold's Napoleons had been very destructive to
                                    the charging column of Longstreet's corps on the 6th of May, '64.
                                    They were piled in heaps in front of our works. Had our search been made early in
                                    the spring before vegetation was so far advanced, many more remains would have been
                                    discovered.
                        On the farm of one Akers in the rear of our lines is the place where our corps
                                    hospital was established, and here the brave fellows of our old brigade and others
                                    are thickly planted. There are four burial places on the farm—most of the
                                    graves marked with cracker-box head  boards. This
                                    man Akers owns, or rather there are on his plantation about twenty negroes, mostly
                                    wenches and brats, with perhaps three rheumatic "uncles." He has a
                                    son at home who was a lieutenant in the rebel army. Six acres in wheat and six in
                                    corn is all the crop they have to depend on for winter food—two worn-out
                                    horses and two cows compose their "stock."
                        I visited the iron furnace on the Nye river, four miles from
                                    this place. It has been rebuilt and will soon be in running order again. Well do I
                                    remember the day I first saw this furnace- A large two-story brick dwelling house
                                    hidden in shrubbery, formerly the residence of the owner of the iron works, is now
                                    in ruins and looks the very picture of desolation itself. Owls, bats and snakes are
                                    now the sole occupants.
                        At Todd's tavern, heavy breastworks had been thrown up by our rear guard. A
                                    severe cavalry fight took place here, but we did not halt to look for the remains of
                                    the fallen horsemen.
                        We passed the place where had been the hospital of the Fifth corps, after their
                                    bloody charge of the 8th of May [1864]. I well remembered the rows of wounded
                                    soldiers I had seen stretched out here as we bivouackea on the same spot but little
                                    over one year ago, and listening all the night long to the deep groans of the
                                    wounded and dying heroes and shrieks and curses of those undergoing the torture of
                                    the probe or keen blade of the amputating knife. Many a poor fellow's bones
                                    rest here under the shade of oak and pine, and few with boards to mark the spot.
                        Two fine springs gush from the rocks a short distance to the left of the road. We
                                    halted only to, quench our thirst. There was no time to do honor to those sleepers,
                                    as but a few hours march ahead of us hundreds lay who had been scarce covered with
                                    their mother earth.
                        But, friend 
                                        Greene
                                    , I fancy this letter is quite long enough. If you find it dull, stupid
                                    and prosy, attribute the cause to the piping hot weather and a lack of energy and
                                    "mint juleps."
                        More again, soon, and I will try to put more life into it next time. To-morrow is the
                                    4th of July my fifth one in the army. There will be no
                                    demonstration in this Division.
                        "All quiet on the Potomac!" is the watch cry.
                        
                                    Adieu,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp First Regiment U. S. Veteran Vol.
                              
                                 
                                    Hancock
                                 's Corps. Near 
                                    Washington
                                 , D. C.,
                           
                                    July 11, 1865.14
                           
                                
                        
                                    Dear Greene:
                                
                        At 4 o'clock on the morning of the 7th inst. we marched with one
                                    day's rations and "forty rounds" to the Arsenal, or Old
                                    penitentiary building, to take part in the "drop game" [hanging].
                                    As we filed into 
                              
                                 14
                                            
                                                Vincennes
                                            
                                            Western Sun, July 22. 1866. In some respects, this is the
                                            most unique letter written for publication in the Western
                                            Sun by Lieutenant Landon. It is a description by a soldier, who was an
                                            eye-witness. of the execution of the four persons charged with complicity in
                                            the agaasaination of Lincoln. on the seventh of July, 1865.
                           
                                     the enclousure and formed two sides of a square
                                    (the prison wall and the high brick parapet forming the other two), I observed first
                                    four graves and four "wooden overcoats" [coffins], then the
                                    scaffold, with two drops, and the four "treason chokers"
                                    [suspended ropes] swaying to and fro in the wind. I had not anticipated all this so
                                    soon, presuming the XEQtion [execution] would of course be a public one, and that
                                    having already marched five miles in a broiling July sun and through dense clouds of
                                    stiffling dust, fancied our troubles but begun, and that we were to escort the
                                    wretches to some of the high and barren hilltops surrounding the city, we were all
                                    most agreeably disappointed and stood at ease, leaning on our well burnished arms
                                    and gazing with mere curiosity at the workmen putting the
                                    finishing touches to the "assassins' derrick." Guards
                                    being posted everywhere, we stacked arms and broke ranks. Some of the carpenters in
                                    the regiment lent a hand in adjusting beams and traces, occasionally tossing the
                                    boys a block that was sawn off, or a strip of scantling for a walking stick. A grand
                                    rush was always made for these by the "relic hunters of the
                                    Wilderness," occasioning much amusement amongst the soldiery. In removing
                                    some caission boxes, &c., from one part of the yard, a fatigue party
                                    captured a huge rat. He was immediately court-martialed, sentenced and a (miniature
                                    gallows being erected and a piece of fish line procured) hung—his carcase
                                    chucked into one of the pits near the coffins.
                        The prison wall is at least eighteen feet high and shut out not only the view from
                                    the Potomac, but the "ten knot" breeze that was filling more than
                                    one white sail on the broad stream. Occasionally a circling puff whirling over the
                                    enclosure would stir up everything that was laying around loose, dust included, and
                                    cause the "human hawsers" [suspended ropes] to writhe as I have
                                    seen wounded snakes before now.
                        Some hundred citizens were admitted—not twenty-five of them but what were
                                    attached to either the "press gang" or detective's force
                                    of 
                                        Washington City
                                    . All these "roosters" carried umbrellas, and soon had
                                    them spread skyward. The sentinels took revenge by quietly punching their sharp
                                    glittering bayonets through the "silk Sibleys," so, had it rained,
                                    many a chap would have wondered why his "roundhouse" leaked so
                                    badly.
                        Finally, everything was in readiness and "Time!" called. The
                                    soldiers stood to their arms and the four culprits appeared on the scene. The usual
                                    formula was gone through with, lasting perhaps twenty minutes, when the ropes were
                                    adjusted the white caps pulled over their heads, and they were literally jerked into Eternity. I have an idea, that from the time a fellow
                                    feels the rope coiling round his neck till he is "hood-winked" and
                                    actually "rubbed out" of existence, ye past presents the
                                    finest—aye, perhaps the most terrible—panorama he ever
                                    witnessed. I have no desire to see it (when my turn comes for "going
                                    under") "roped in," with a frame of
                                    bayonets and bronzed, unsympathising faces.
                        Life having been pronounced extinct by the U.S. surgeons present, the yard was
                                    cleared of all but members of our regiment or division by order of Major Gen. 
                                        Hancock
                                    ; a "detail" was then made to take down  the bodies and bury them. The soldiers performing this
                                    task whacked off as much rope from each dangling quirl as they could reach, and,
                                    cutting it into small pieces, threw it among their comrades below. The scramble for
                                    the twine far exceeded that for the blocks and scraps of wood an hour or two before.
                        Two men scuffling good humoredly for a "rope-relic," rolled into
                                    one of the freshly dug graves, and before they could extricate themselves half a
                                    dozen shovel fulls of earth had been thrown upon them by laughing comrades.
                        The bodies were placed in the "wooden overcoats" just as they fell,
                                    with the exception that the fatal nooses were taken off—the white
                                    "deathhoods" were not removed. I noticed the
                                    rope in every instance had cut to the bone.
                        
                        Mrs. Surrat died without a struggle, merely a clenching of the left hand Payne or
                                    Powell was on the "drop" next in order He took great pains to
                                    place his toes right on the edge—stood straight as an
                                    arrow—said nothing to the lookers-on—gave a slight shrug of
                                    the shoulders when the coil fell about his bare neck, but not a tremor of a nerve or
                                    winking of an eye could be noticed. He died, to use the slang term, "game
                                    to the last." Harrold [Herold] and Atzerott [At-zerodt] were both half dead
                                    with terror and the consciousness of their awful situation. Their knees knocked
                                    together as they bade each other "good boye."15 There was but a single disturbance that I saw during the day. One of the
                                    6th regiment, U.S. Veteran Volunteers, 
                                        Hancock
                                    's corps, attempting to pass the guard at the outer gate with
                                    an empty canteen for water, was halted, and some words passed, when the sergeant of
                                    the guard coming up drew his sabre and stabbed the unarmed soldier in the face,
                                    putting out his right eye and giving him a dangerous if not fatal wound. The
                                    sergeant and the guard on at this post are from the "Veteran Reserve or
                                    Invalid corps" and no troops "in the field" are on good
                                    terms with these d—d overbearing "Invalids and hospital
                                    bummers"—that's what's the matter. Well my
                                    item is not finished yet: a brother of the wounded man, hearing of the uncalled for
                                    and cowardly act, came up and put an ounce and a half of cold lead into the
                                    brain-pan of the "reserve sergeant," killing him instantly, and
                                    then walked cooly on to see after his brother's wounds. That's the
                                    right kind of vengeance, for you!—he had heard that his brother was
                                    mortally wounded and was determined on revenge first—that is as it should be!
                        
                                    Truly yours,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp First Regiment U.S., Veteran Vol.
                              
                                 
                                    Hancock
                                 's Corps. Fort Marshall, near 
                                    Baltimore
                                 ,
                           
                                    Aug. 3, '65.16
                           
                                
                        
                                    Dear Greene:
                                
                        We have "changed our base" again. On the 12th of July six companies
                                    were "detailed" for guard and patrol duty at Giesboro'
                                    Point, in a drenching rain we moved off and before noon 
                              
                                 15 The names of the four persons executed were: Mrs.
                                            Mary E. Surratt, Lewis Thornton Powell (who had taken the name of Payne),
                                            David E. Herold. and George A. Atzerodt.
                              
                                 16
                                            
                                                Vincennes
                                            
                                            Western Sun. Aug. 12, 1865.
                           
                                     had our "dog-tent" pitched on
                                    the sandy shores of "Gooseberry Pint;" as the boys called it;. So
                                    soon as the drops ceased to patter and the boiling July sun could glare upon us
                                    through rents in the torn storm clouds, a million sand-flies, horse-flies,
                                    gad-flies, green-flies, gnats, and gallinippers made a charge upon our encampment. A
                                    severe battle ensued, which continued all night long with unabated fury. A corps of
                                    blood-thirsty musquitoes and other winged torments reinforced our enemies of the day
                                    and came near "demoralizing" us. Old soldiers of the Army of the
                                    Potomac, who had campaigned during the "heated term" on the
                                    Peninsula, and suffered the torments of the damned almost at Harrison's
                                    Landing on the banks of the James in '62, "caved in" on
                                    the gnat question, declaring that Giesboro' was entitled to the palm, and
                                    that her "musquito fleet" was decidedly more formidable than any
                                    they had previously encountered. Fortunately, ere three suns had rose and set,
                                    orders were received to strike tents and pack knapsacks for 
                                        Baltimore
                                    . Most welcome order!
                        In due time the regiment was "laying around loose" on board a
                                    "soldier train," composed of hog, horse, cattle and lumber cars,
                                    and we were soon rolling toward the "
                                        Monumental City
                                    ." 'Twas the Sabbath, and "all was
                                    quiet" along the line and in the city, too, as we marched steadily and
                                    quickly through this post.
                        For the first few days after our arrival there was, as the boys express it,
                                    "Hell in the guard-house," that institution being literally jammed
                                    and every company represented, but heavy "fatigue duty" imposed on
                                    all offenders soon restored discipline and order.
                        Five companies were sent to Fort McHenry, two to the city for provost
                                    duty—the other three remained till within a few days past, when another
                                    one was sent there also. This leaves companies "D" and
                                    "E" to perform the duties of this post. They are light, and as we
                                    are blessed (?) with but one drill per day (on the big guns) there
                                    is really no reason why any of us should grumble. Indeed we are very pleasantly
                                    situated; the barracks we white scrubbed, so they are neat, clean and cool. The view
                                    of city, country, and the famous "Bay of 
                                        Baltimore
                                    ," the huge "ships that go down to the sea,"
                                    barks, brigs, schooners, sloops, pilot-boats, swift steamers, puffing tugs, pleasure
                                    yachts, revenue cutters and dark looking men-of-war, is, from the ramparts, truly
                                    magnificent, and for variety and beauty unsurpassed by anything I ever gazed upon in
                                    the shape of the picturesque. I never tire of it, and can sit and watch the water
                                    craft dotting this beautiful bay for miles, day by day, with equal pleasure and
                                    delight.
                        The weather is too confounded hot for comfort to-day, and I have nothing stronger
                                    than pump water to 40-fy with.
                        
                                    Perspiringly, yours,
                                    PROCK. 
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Some time in September, 1865, Lieutenant Landon received his discharge from 
                        Hancock
                    's Corps. He was assigned to the Third Regulars and given a commission as
                    Liuetenant.  With a short period off duty, he visited 
                        Vincennes
                     in the latter part of September.17 He left for 
                        New York City
                     in time to reach it on Sept. 30.18 He left for the South with his
                    regiment on Oct. 9.19
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Merchants Hotel
                              Courtland Street, 
                                    New York City
                                 ,
                           
                                    Saturday Night, Oct. [7], 1865.20
                           
                                
                        
                                    Friend Greene:
                                
                        Have been here just a week to-night. Have visited the Park and the Museum of Anatomy,
                                    618 
                                        Broadway
                                    ; also many other noted places; consider the latter the "big
                                    thing" of all.
                        At the corner of Rector and 
                                        Broadway
                                    , on which looms up old Trinity Church, I noticed on a bulletin-board
                                    the price of gold, and directly underneath a notice of Divine services at 10 A.M.,
                                    tomorrow, in the open air at the Park. "God and gold!" with New
                                    Yorkers—but gold comes first.
                        A few incidents of my trip towards the rising sun [
                                        Vincennes
                                     to 
                                        New York
                                    ] might not prove uninteresting. After a parting hs
                                    all round with old friends at the "Wm. Tell"—no tales,
                                    your correspondent
                                        "Left behind his native shore, Home, and all he loved
                                        B-4,"
                                     and was fast locked in the arms of Morpheus in twenty minutes after the
                                    train started—so much for a clear conscience. Train ran off the track, so
                                    I was told. Maj. Gen. Sherman was thrown sky-high, alighting on his feet, puffing a
                                    cigar as usual. I would like to know where he lit that "cheroot."
                                    H. Temple informed me of these facts next morning, and as the General was sitting
                                    forninst us at the time smoking, and did not dispute it, and as friend T. [Temple]
                                    is a man of veracity, and more, too, I am satisfied somebody was, in classic
                                    parlance, "tight."
                        Well, in consequence of the mishap, the train arrived in 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     too late for connections East, and I took some lager and
                                    "traced up" the Governor, found him happy and contented. God bless
                                    himI
                        I also saw Charley Peek—four of that boy would make a bushel, heaping full
                                    at that.
                        Cad was invisible—he, like the General, being a
                                    "nightbird." What horrible dreams these owls must have. I remember
                                    one night (or morning, rather, for 'has just knocking off four by the town
                                    clock) during my late flying visit to Old Post, the General, 'Squire, and
                                    myself occupied the boards together—all at once one of
                                    'em sang 
                              
                                 17
                                            Ibid., Sept. 23. 1866. Editor 
                                                Greene
                                             reports meeting "Prock" in Vincennei on Sept.
                                            22.
                              
                                 18 In a letter written on a Saturday in October, in 
                                                New York City
                                            . which omits the day of the month, "Prock"
                                            says that he reached the city just a week before. In a later letter written
                                            from St. Marks, 
                                                Florida
                                            , on October 24, he states that he left
                                            "Gotham" (
                                                New York City
                                            ) on Oct. 9. (See Western Sun. Mar. 31. 1866).
                                            There was only one Saturday in October, 1866, before Oct. 9. which was Oct.
                                            7. This establishes the fact that his undated letter was written on Oct. 7.
                                            and the further fact that he reached 
                                                New York City
                                             on S&. 30. He must have left 
                                                Vincennes
                                             before the middle of the week, possibly on Tuesday. Sept. 26,
                                            since some connections were missed on the trip.
                              
                                 19
                                            
                                                Vincennes
                                            
                                            Western Sun, March 30. 1866.
                              
                                 20
                                 Ibid., Dec. 2. 1865. Editor 
                                                Greene
                                             explains that this letter of Oct. 1'71 should have
                                            arrived "long since."
                           
                                     out—"We have lost a
                                    child!" The voice and accent were so piteous, I sprang at once to my feet
                                    and roused them both, thinking 'twas a night mare; but, no! 'tis
                                    all shrouded in mystery to this day.
                        I left Porkopolis on the 10 P.M. "Lightning Train" for 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     via Steubenville—advise all my traveling-in-haste friends to
                                    avoid that route East; 'tis a "slow
                                    coach"—this is the third time I have found it so. The Express
                                    after daylight ran slower than a canal boat, and the conductor's watch
                                    running down, he stopped the train at a saw mill to set it going (not the mill) and
                                    get the time o' day. Missed connection at Stuebenville—was
                                    mad—lager.
                        Next passenger train brought me into Hades (Pittsburg)—another miss; more
                                    lager and the time mixed with a few beer for luck. In the sleeping car that night
                                    for Harrisburgh, I forgot my troubles, delays, devilments, &c., and dreamed
                                    of the "Ice Witch!"
                        Harrisburgh was overflowing with 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                     Dutch, lager, pea-nuts, and discharged soldiers. Was on time,
                                    tho', and that was some comfort.
                        I found the Oyster City (
                                        Baltimore
                                    ) fresh and cool; met some old acquaintances in "
                                        Hancock
                                    's Veterans"—smiled—hurried to
                                    Uncle Sam's Quarter-master for transportation; he kept me waiting 36 hours,
                                    d—n him—"red tape" not played out yet.
                                    However, had time to squeeze a lemon and the hand of some of the "boys in
                                    blue," see the "pictures."
                        Excuse me from another ride on the "Owl Train" from 
                                        Baltimore
                                     to 
                                        New York
                                    . I have endured a few shakes out West, but the way everything and
                                    everybody was tumbled about promiscuously over that portion of the road from
                                    Brunswick to 
                                        Newark
                                    , N.J., exceeded any shaking up it was ever my ill fortune to
                                    experience. My teeth were shaken loose, hair shaken off by the handsful. I pitied
                                    (?) an old maid that sat a few seats off. Somebody's hair shook off from
                                    her caput, and when I laughed, she looked as mad as any bald hornet, but dared not
                                    speak for fear her molars (false ones) would tumble out.
                        A bottle of St. Croix X. X.—1860 Bitters shook out of a
                                    gentleman's valise, and it required the combined efforts of a brace of ua
                                    to prevent it from shaking to pieces. We finally succeeded, however, and there was a
                                        smile all around. Our fellow-passengers congratulated us on
                                    our success, each and every one seeming to be x-tremely x-cited during our
                                    x-traordinary x-ertions in x-tricating the X.X. from its perilous situation.
                        
                                    Yours, contentedly,
                                    PROCK
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            It was in the last letter that Prock wrote to the Western Sun, that of October 24,
                        1865,21 that he described his first sea voyage, from 
                        New York
                     to Savannah, which began on October 9 and ended before October 19: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        October 9th. Left Gotham on steamer Empire City. Before I had satisfied my curiosity
                                    and examined what was visible on deck, our 
                              
                                 21
                                            Ibid,, Mar. 81, 1866.
                           
                                     gallant sea craft was sweeping through the
                                    "Narrows," or "Hell Gate." A sailing vessel,
                                    under full press of canvass, passed between us and Fort Johnstone or some other
                                    Bastile. She was a most beautiful sight, skimming like a sea bird, almost
                                    noiselessly, over the white capped waves, the bright copper sheathing flashing in
                                    the sunlight as her sharp bows rose gracefully upon each swell, parting the ever
                                    restless waters and sending them whirling and circling in bubling eddies far astern.
                                    Hush!
                        Having been ordered on duty by the ranking military officer on board (a Major of
                                    Artillery), I was necessarily compelled to go below for a short time, for the
                                    purpose of obtaining the number of soldiers on board; amount and quality of their
                                    rations; to divide them into squads, placing a non-com. in charge of each, and make
                                    arrangements with the ship's steward for supplying the men with hot coffee
                                    twice a day. Having accomplished this task, I reported progress,
                                    "smiled" with ye Major, took a 
                                        Cuba
                                     (not 6) at his expense, and again sought the deck. We were beginnhg to
                                    meet the long rolls of Old Ocean. I had heard the "long rolls"
                                    before, but never experienced the same sensations…. We were twenty-five
                                    miles from land, ye skipper said, and with steam and sail were bowling along
                                    merrily, nothing visible but curling foam-crested waves, and Heaven's
                                    "ethereal blue" above. Right gallantly the old bark bore us on,
                                    and Prock enjoyed it hugely. Sunset was gorgeous almost belond description, but here
                                    goes! The instant before the great sullen sea was rolling and heaving with its
                                    leaden blue surface, slightly traced here and there with foam, but no sooner had the
                                    sun touched the horizon than a flood of purple glory spread over the whole ocean, so
                                    that it became like a sea of molten gold and amber…. Nuff!
                        The "spot" on old Sol's shining countenance was distinctly
                                    visible to the naked eye as he shot up like a rocket (almost) from his watery bed
                                    next A. M.
                        This day was not so fine. Clouds began to obscure the "azure
                                    vault," the "gentle zephyrs" (?) that had hitherto sighed
                                    (?) through the rigging gave place to old Boreas, who came howling and shreaking
                                    from the southeast. Ye sea ran high, and ye craft ran higher.
                        
                                    "Zose were zick who ne'er were zick B 4, An ze beeples
                                        zick B 4 were zick ze more."
                                
                        Not I tho'! This day I observed numerous "monsters of the
                                    deep," dolphins, flying fish, blue fish, porpoises, and ye voracious shark.
                                    Some disciples of Sir Isaac Walton rigged a "trolling line" some
                                    two hundred fathoms (1200 feet) long, and successfully "trolled"
                                    for blue fish in the ship's wake. They "triced up" a fine
                                    dolphin and some four hundred and sixty pounds of the scaly meat beside.
                                    'Twas rare sport. I now had an opportunity of witnessing the
                                    "dying dolphin" of which I had read so much in the Primmer by Sir
                                    Peter Parley, Esq., when life was young. The "changeable hues"
                                    were beautiful….
                        Wind veered round during the night, and the next day the sails were again unfurled to
                                    speed the bark to port. At 4 o'clock, hoxvever, Boreas "changed
                                    direction" suddenly, and blew strong, and "dead  ahead." The ship's shirt tails were
                                    close reefed, and steam alone resorted to. Old craft rolled and pitched in a manner
                                    not at all agreeable to pleasure seekers and romantic young ladies, of whom there
                                    were a squad aboard. Ye "Eagle," [Lieutenant Landon], however,
                                    kept the deck till midnight, enjoyiag the change. How grand it was! On comes a huge
                                    dark mass of water, foaming and seething, seemingly resistless in its headlong
                                    course. How it thunders against the ship's bows, dashing clouds of
                                    drenching spray from fore-castle to quarter-deck, and then, its fury spent, surging
                                    and hissing as it whirls madly astern! See it! Can't, eh? Well, neither can
                                    I now!
                        
                        Eleven P. M. Off Hatteras, blowing "great guns." Now we are
                                    heavenwards, ye wheels of ye steamer revolving in air; now deeply burried in a
                                    monstrous wave, the timbers groaning and creaking as it thunders past! Perched on a
                                    coil of hawser rope, and holding on by the "rattlines," I watched
                                    the "revolving of light" of Hatteras, now some fifteen miles off.
                                    Mate said 'twas visible for ten leagues (thirty miles) at sea.
                        Many vessels have "tacked" in vain off this dread cape, the
                                    "tumbling star" (beacon light) warning them of the certain doom
                                    that awaited all on board, as the wild waves drifted them resistlessly nearer and
                                    nearer the fearful breakers.
                        Daylight found us some miles south of 'ye cape. The storm clouds had been
                                    rent asunder. As the sun rose clear and beautiful, a land bird of the hawk species
                                    was observed perched on the foreyard. Venturing too far from shore, his hawkship
                                    sought this as a resting place. During this day I observed butterflies around the ship, and though we were twenty miles from shore, and
                                    the wind blowing from the southwest, these tiny "birds" kept pace
                                    with us, and with apparent ease too! Seeing is believing with some
                                    people, but with Prock feeling is the naked truth. I
                                    "cotch" one. 'Twas a genuine brown butterfly.
                        Majority of the fair sex on board were Yankee skule marms from way down East, gwine
                                    to Souf Karliny for tew teech de juvenile pulled population how tew shute the young
                                    idy, and the "kummin man" (of color also, 2-Bsure) The
                                    amalgymashun doctrine. Massa Chewsits had no small share in this kontribushion of
                                    phemails. Taken awl in awl, tha wur a sour looking set—a kind of
                                    furniture that won't spile by ruff handling. All were under charge of a
                                    male attache of that negro boarding-house institution known as the
                                    freed-man's bu-ro.
                        Well, on the 13th we sighted the "buoys" off Port Royal Harbor, S.
                                    C. As we passed the first one, a "school" of flying fish flew up
                                    beneath the bows, and went skipping away at a great rate….
                        Most of the passengers hurried ashore as soon as the ship touched the wharf, but a
                                    few of us remained on board all night, and had a "high old time"
                                    with her officers. Good fellows, all.
                        So ended my first sea voyage….
                     
                  
               
                
            A letter dated October 19, 1865, was written at Savannah 
                    following the sea voyage described above. A paragraph giving "Prock's"
                    impression of the City should not be omitted: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Savannah is a beautiful city yet, though a large portion of it is in ruins.
                                    Sherman's resistless troopers left their mark and no
                                    mistake—ransacked houses, safes blown open and laying loose about the
                                    streets, blocks of ruins where the torch had been applied, fences demolished,
                                    shrubbery torn up, &c., &c. The city is laid out checkerboard
                                    fashion, streets straight as a gun-barrel, an abundance of shade trees, and most
                                    excellent brick and flag-stone side-walks. There are some of the finest private
                                    residences here I have seen tn Dixie. The city contains numerous public squares and
                                    a small park. One of these squares is piled full of shot, shell, grape and
                                    cannister; another is "blockaded" with captured artillery; a third
                                    has a fine monument raised to the memory of 
                                        Pulaski
                                    ….22
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Other interesting paragraphs from the Savannah letter follow: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Cotton, cotton, cotton! People here wear cotton, raise cotton, sell cotton, buy
                                    cotton, ship cotton, steal cotton, smuggle cotton, and talk cotton—and
                                    eat cotton seed, for aught I know.
                        The city is garrisoned by a white regiment (N. Y. Vols.) Their term of enlistment
                                    expires soon, and they will be homeward bound, when the civil authorities will
                                    reign, I suppose.
                        A low, marshy country bounds the Savannah river all the way up
                                    from the mouth to this place. There are several huge forts, and the obstructions
                                    were very formidable—huge piles driven into the bed of the river,
                                    pointing down stream, and shod with iron. Portions of these inventions of the
                                    "Johnnies" have been removed to allow the passage of; boats flying
                                    the stars and stripes. It does a soldier good all over to see that
                                    "grid-iron" floating proudly over all!
                        
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Jacksonville
                                 , Fla.,
                           
                                    Oct. 21, 1865.23
                           
                                
                        
                                    Friend Greene:
                                
                        The good steamer "froze" to the wharf at this place about 1
                                    o'clock A. M., and your flying correspondent having put himself outside of
                                    a parting "nip" with the "skipper," and a large
                                    breakfast, shook himself and sprang on shore….
                        Andrew—
                                        Jacksonville
                                     is what we bad boys call in America a H–1 of a place! Load
                                    two five hundred pounders to the muzzle, one with half a dozen Brucevilles and
                                    'tother with railroad iron, cotton bales and lumber, and cross-fire
                                    'em both at once into a sand bank; where nothing struck, plant live oaks,
                                    make a narrow plank-walk all around the bank, scatter a few darkies over it, with
                                    here and there a spindle-shanked, hungry-looking "Johnnie," and a
                                    few brace of Uncle Samuel's 
                              
                                 22
                                            Ibid., Nov. 25, 1865.
                              
                                            23
                                            Ibid.
                                        
                           
                                     "cracker-eaters" dressed in
                                    blue, have 'em all sucking oranges or sugarcane and going slow, and, friend 
                                        Greene
                                    , there is your 
                                        Jacksonville
                                    !
                        The town is surrounded with earth-works, rifle-pits, &c., and the timber is
                                    cleared off for at least a mile from the suburbs, in all directions. The 13th
                                    Indiana boys assisted in throwing up the dirt. There are two regiments of colored
                                    troops here, and a portion of the 7th U. S. Infantw.
                        The train runs semi-occasionally to Tallahassee. It is supposed to go out at 6 A. M.
                                    tomorrow. If so, I go, too.
                        
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              City Hotel, Tallahassee, Fla.,
                           
                                    Oct. 23, 1865.24
                           
                                
                        
                                    Friend Greene:
                                
                        Having steamed over one hundred and sixty miles on dry land, I am now quartered in
                                    the capital of the State of 
                                        Florida
                                    . The first train brought me to Lake City, the half way place. The road
                                    is a good one to this point, but the engine and cars hardly hold
                                    together—time about 12 miles an hour. The portion of country through
                                    which it runs is sparsely settled, the land very poor along the line, a great deal
                                    of marsh, and the remainder for the most part covered with heavy pine timber. I
                                    counted fifteen steam saw-mills, all new ones, too, along the route to the city (?)
                                    above mentioned.
                        There were a few cotton bales at several of the stations, and any quantity of
                                    darkies. Young frizzle heads came through the car (there was only one passenger
                                    coach, the remainder being freight and box cars,) at every stopping place with
                                    sugar-cane, peanuts, gingerbread, oranges, and figs for sale. All of them possessed
                                    a portion of Uncle Sam's uniform (either cap, blouse, pants, or a leather
                                    belt with the U. S.). They are fat, black, "shiny," indolent,
                                    ignorant, careless, good-natured, contented, and 'appy, apparently. If not,
                                    whose fault is it? I am not an agent for the "Freedmens Bureau,"
                                    and consequently expected to ameliorate their condition. No, sir-ee, let Gen. O. O.
                                    Howard and his staff attend to Cuffee. They are well paid for it no doubt.
                        From Lake City to Tallashasee the old rattle-box of a train ran like the very devil
                                    over as rough a track as there is in the 
                                        United States
                                    , not excepting the Brunswick railroad in Jersey, that State by the way
                                    being just outside the 
                                        United States
                                    . The country is, more rolling as you approach the interior, and we
                                    whirled through several deep cuts. The depot at Tallahassee is half or
                                    three-quarters of a mile from the town, and in a dilapidated condition.
                        The town itself is very pleasantly situated on a high ridge. The streets are broad,
                                    irregular, and most of them poorly shaded; houses scattering, the majority built of
                                    wood; only one business street, and, as in Hilton Head, S. C., the stores,
                                    &c., are all on one side of the street, and the opposite side almost all
                                    vacant lots.
                        
                           
                              24 Ibid.
                        
                        
                        The State House looks as though it might have been built by Americus Vespucius with
                                    the wrecks of some of his Spanish galleons, or of "drift wood"
                                    from the coast. At all events 'tis an odd-looking piece of architecture,
                                    and must have been thrown together to a hurry.
                        I observed a score of captured cannon on one vacant lot, with caissons, limbers,
                                    &c.
                        One street, I forgot the name, has a very few quite respectable residences on it, but
                                    all sadly in need of paint and plaster. For the most part the fences are gone from
                                    around the dwellings, probably used for fire-wood by the C. S. cavalry or other
                                    rebel troops.
                        The country around is very thickly settled, the land fertile. Provisions are cheap,
                                    quite as much so as in Indiana. There is an abundance of oats, corn, hay, fodder,
                                    &c.
                        Wagon loads of cotton are constantly passing through the streets, but the stores are
                                    poorly stocked, and trade dull enough. Everything is in such an unsettled state at
                                    present that business of all kinds is at a stand still.
                        I am going down to St. Marks to-morrow on the railroad. I want to see the Gulf
                                    o' Mexico. Perhaps I shall go to Tampa, away down the coast.
                        My hair curls tight to-day and I am not in a good humor, therefore I must cease
                                    scribbling and try a gallop on a pony into the country for a change. The A. Q. M.
                                    has lots of horseflesh here, and 'tis a "free ride." Once
                                    more adieu.
                        
                                    Frantically, yours,
                                    PROCK.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            The last letter to the Western Swn by Lieutenant Landon was written at St. Marks, 
                        Florida
                    , Tuesday, October 24, 1865.25 This letter was long delayed in the
                    mails, or more likely carried for many weeks in the pocket of the comrade who was asked to mail it
                    by "Proclc." Though it reached its desination very late, it was promptly
                    published, appearing in the Sun of March 31, 1866.26 At that
                    time, Lieutenant Landon was in 
                        Vincennes
                    , having severed his connection with the army for a short period.
                    "Prock" was not well impressed with St. Mark's: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Will not attempt a description of this hole ?n the boot-leg of the U. S. Suffice it
                                    to say, that of all the saints I ever saw this is the most shabby one. St.
                                    Francisville, on the 
                                        Wabash
                                    , would be a city compared to it. The sand is bottomless, and as to
                                    fleas—ye gods! O. C. K. in his liberal translation of "The Good
                                    Book" says: "The 
                              
                                 25
                                            Ibid., March 31, 1866.
                              
                                 26 The editor explains that the letter wan entrusted
                                            to a friend to be mailed. and adds that "It has been on a
                                            'tramp' ever since [Oct. 24]. throughout the South,
                                            looking for a post-office. …"
                           
                                     wicked flea, when no man
                                    pursueth, but the righteous is as bold as the lion." I fully concur with
                                    the worthy and learned translator, and broadly assert, without fear of successful
                                    contradiction, that these "little jokers" are more numerous and
                                    lively, hop farther, bite quicker and deeper, and hold more
                                    "claret" [blood] than the insects of any seaport, gulf-port, or
                                    any other port in America. I long for the hour when I shall "flee from the
                                    wrath to come." C Lahr! [Selah]27
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            The following items appeared in the Western Sun from time to time, and it seems
                    well to republish them here as they add interesting matter relative to Lieutenant Landon: 
                        The "Continental Hotel," corner of Main and Fifth, with Jas. Reynalds as
                            proprietor and Will. Landon ("Prock") as clerk is becoming one of the
                            popular institutions of the city.28
                  
                    
                    
                        "PROCK" AGAIN IN HIS ELEMENT.—We observe, from the recent
                            confirmations by the Senate, the name of our old and cherished friend and popular
                            correspondent W.D.F. Landon ("Prock"), to be Lieutenant in the regular
                            army. A most excellent appointment! We are sure that friend L. would give a good report of
                            himself in whatever position he might be placed—but the army is his forte! We, in
                            behalf of our readers, will protest against his accepting the commission, however, unless he
                            agrees to drop us a line occasionally, over his favorite nom de plum of
                            "Prock," which has become so familiar to all our patrons.29
                  
                    
                    
                        Our friend Landon ("Prock") has received his commission as Second
                            Lieutenant in the 18th regulars, and will join his regiment at Fort 
                        Columbus, New
                            York
                      bay, in a few days.30
                  
                    
                    
                        LIEUT. W.D.F. LANDON—HIS DISAPPEARANCE.—A letter has been received
                            here, from "Head-quarters, Fort 
                        Leavenworth, Kansas
                     ," under date of February 3, 1867, addressed to the
                            friends of Lieut. Landon, giving the painful intelligence that he left that post, 8th of
                            July last, "without leave, and has not been heard from since." The letter
                            also gives a list of articles found in his trunk, which was left at his quarters.
                        Alas, poor "Prock!" This shocking news is the first tidings received of our
                            old and valued friend and correspondent since he left 
                        
                           27 In the remainder of this, his last lettt-r to the Sun, "Prock" goes back to redate incidents of
                                    the sea voyage from 
                                        New York
                                     to Savannah, which began on Od. 9 and ended about a week later, at
                                    least by Oct. 18. "Prock" remained on the boat one night after
                                    most of the passengers had landed, and he wrote a letter from Savannah on Oct. 19.
                                    1865. At the end of the final letter of Oct. 24. 1865. "Prock"
                                    said: "Leave this place [St. Marks] for Tampa in 'a few
                                    days'." Whether he went to Tampa or not before returning to the
                                    North, there is no way of knowing.
                        
                           28
                                    
                                        Vincennes
                                    
                                    Western Sun, March 9. 1866. In the issue of March 31, Lieut.
                                    Landon is mentioned as the new clerk at the "Continental."
                        
                           29
                           Ibid., April 20. 1866.
                        
                           30
                           Ibid., May 5. 1866.
                     
                             here last May, to join his regiment (Third infantry)31 in which he had been commissioned as Second Lieutenant. We are
                            fearful that he has passed from earth, how or in what manner time may
                            reveal—perhaps by the hand of the mericless savage! While we trust our
                            forebodings may not be realized, we dread the worst.32
                  
                    
                    
                        Some two weeks ago, Hon. W. E. Niblack received a letter from an aunt of Lieut. W.D.F.
                            Landon, residing in 
                                Vermont
                            , making anxious inquiries about him and expressing fears that some fatality had
                            befallen him. Mr. N. immediately addressed a note to the Adjutant General on the subject and
                            received the following reply. This, in connection with what we have already published leaves
                            but little room to doubt that our cherished friend "Prock" has gone to his
                            last home. Peace to his manes!33
                  
                    
            
            The letter from Assistant Adjutant General Samuel Breck of 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., written on Feb. 13, 1867, to Hon. W. E. Niblack, member of the national House of
                    Representatives from Indiana, follows: 
                  
                     
                        Sir: In reply to your communication of the 4th inst, I have to inform you that it
                                    appears upon investigation that Lieut. Landon, not having been seen since July 8th,
                                    1866, at Fort 
                              Leavenworth, Kansas
                           , it is supposed that he
                                    was drowned while bathing in the Missouri river.34
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
                  31 The editor is in error. "Prock" was attached to the
                        Third Regulars in, the fall of 1866. hut in the spring of 1866, he became a Second Lieutenant in
                        the Elghteenth Regulars.
               
                  32
                        Ibid., Feb. 16, 1867.
               
                  33
                        Ibid., Feb. 23, 1867.
               
                        34
                        Ibid.
                    
            
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               The Potawatomi Indians. By Otho Winger. The Elgin Press, Elgin, 
                        Illinois
                    , 1939. Pp. 159, illustrated.
            In the preface, the author indicates that his book "is one of the results of years of
                    interest in and study of the American Indian." It is written to record and preserve the
                    history and traditions of the Pottawatomi. Many of the readers of the Indiana Magazine
                        of History are acquainted with President Winger of 
                        Manchester
                     College and his previous volumes, The Lost Sister Among the Miamis
                    and The Last of the Miamis.
            
            The first chapter briefly sketches the history of the Pottawatomi prior to the War of 1812. These
                    Indians fought first with the French and then with Pontiac, against the English. During the American
                    Revolution, they aided the English against the Americans. They also fought against whites at The
                    Fallen Timbers (1794) and at 
                        Tippecanoe
                     (1811.) Such were the usual alliances of the Indians of this area. The
                    author's description of the massacre at Fort 
                        Dearborn
                    , during the War of 1812, enables the reader to understand why pioneers hated the
                    Indian. The discussions of land cessions and the removal of the tribe present an entirely different
                    atmosphere. The Fort 
                        Dearborn
                     Massacre and "The Trail of Death" illustrate the extremes in the
                    relations between whites and Indians.
            Pottawatomi trails and traditions are also discussed. Considerable biographical data are given of
                    various tribal leaders. Some of the better known Indian traders are presented. The author's
                    appraisal of the work of the missionaries includes favorable mention of those of the Catholic faith
                    as well as the Baptist missionary, Isaac McCoy. Ample illustrations and maps add to the value of the
                    book. The one-page bibliography consists largely of secondary sources, and only a few footnotes are
                    used.
            Those interested in the Indian history of Indiana will enjoy reading this account of the Pottawatomi.
                    The reviewer can testify that the author has succeedd in conveying his evident interest in and
                    enthusiasm for his subject to the pages of this little volume.
            DONALD F. CARMONY.
            
         
         
         
            
               Pope's Digest, 1815, I. Edited with Introduction by Francis S.
                    Philbrick. 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library, 
                        Springfield
                    , 1938. Pp. lxxiv, 356.
            This well bound, carefully edited volume is the first of two, that, together, will furnish a complete
                    reprinting of the laws of the territory of 
                        Illinois
                    , as revised and edited by Nathniel Pope in 1815. The present volume is Law
                        Series, III, and Collections of the 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Librarg, XXVIII. The second volume of Pope's Digest will be published later. In it will appear further laws, a
                    bibliography and an index for the two volumes.
            Professor Philbrick's "Introduction", which runs to more than sixty pages,
                    contains a short sketch of Pope's public career, followed by a discussion of the
                    "Revision of 1815" and its relationship to later revisions. This treatment is
                    accompanied by extensive notes and will prove very valuable to users of the Digest. Professor Philbrick edited the volume, Laws of Indiana Territory,
                        1801–1809, first published by the 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library (Law Series, II, Collections, XXI) in 1930, and later (1932) reprinted by the Indiana Library and Historical
                    Board. The present work will be welcomed by all students of the early history of 
                        Illinois
                    , Indiana, and the Old Northwest, generally, and they will look forward with interest to
                    the publication of additional volumes edited by Professor Philbrick.
            W.O.L.
         
         
            
               Red Hugh of 
                            Ireland
                        
               , be Jeannette Covert Nolan, a volume written primarily for juvenile readers,
                    is a stirring story drawn from the unhappy history of 
                        Ireland
                     in the period of Queen Elizabeth. Mrs. Nolan, wife of 
                        United States
                     District Attorney 
                        Val
                     Nolan, is deeply interested in good books for young people. Her desire is to write, and
                    to see others write, books in this field that will be read. She is opposed to the publication of
                    expensive volumes in the nature of children's literature, because this places them beyond
                    the reach of too many who deserve the chance to read. She fears that young people of today read less
                    than did those of an earlier period when reading matter was more difficult to obtain, and she is
                    inspired to write because there are entirely too many dull books among those offered to American
                    youth of the present. 
                    Red Hugh of 
                            Ireland
                        
                (Harper and Brothers, 
                        New York
                    , 1938, pp. 250, $2.00) is but the latest youth's novel by Mrs.
                    Nolan. Among her other books are, Second Best (1933), The Young
                        Douglas (1934), and New Days, New Ways (1936). We advise all readers of
                    the Indiana Magazine of History who are interested in young people's
                    literature, or in the selection of books for children, to become acquainted with the work of
                    Jeannette Covert Nolan.
            Other publications received too late for this issue will be reviewed or noticed in our June, 1939,
                    issue.
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages
            AN AGE OF CHANGE
            WILLIAM O. LYNCH.
            
            There have been long periods, some of them lasting for centuries, in which the essential, everyday
                    features of life changed very little. Mehods of growing crops, harvesting crops, and preparing them
                    for use were not greatly modified among settled, civilized peoples from the time of Pericles to that
                    of George 
                        Washington
                    . It was much the same with the making of clothing and the processes back of this
                    important human activity, as it was indeed with most of the things that made up the round of life.
                    Better hand tools, household utensils, carts and wagons, ships, buildings, and other individual
                    commodities were slowly devised, but, for extensive alterations in the ways of life and ways of
                    making a living, the world had to wait for the machine age. When one reflects on the extremely slow
                    evolution of society, government and education through many centuries of simple economic conditions,
                    it is not so difficult to understand the bewilderment that prevails in regard to finance, industrial
                    output, employment of laborers, transportation and international relationships that mark the present
                    complex set-up.
            Should the world come to another static period of several centuries, or one century, or even a half
                    century, one wonders whether the leaders of men would be better able to understand and solve the
                    economic problems confronting them—whether the lack of rapid changes would be a handicap
                    or a helpful feature of the situation. When our nation was born the leaders faced not only intricate
                    international problems and profound political problems at home, but they lived in a world
                    transformed by the commercial revolution and in a period of expansion in commercial banking such as
                    the world had not seen before. They also lived in a period when Europe had been tremendously
                    influenced by the colonization and exploitation of the New World. A new period of unrest was to
                    follow when the interior of the 
                        United States
                     was to be colonized with astonishing rapidity, with an economic crisis coming at the
                    end of Jackson's presidency and another on the eve of the Civil War.
            It is in the period since the Civil War that changes have come to our country with such startling
                    speed. The spread of  the industrial revolution and the invention
                    of new machines and processes in rapid succession have transformed America and furnished undreamed
                    of problems in regard to production, transportation, finance, labor, social welfare, education,
                    morality and government.
            A vast number of living American men and women can remember conditions as they were sixty years ago.
                    It was long after that before I carried on my first telephone conversation. I saw the first electric
                    street-car on September 3, 1888, in 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana. Railroads had reached a high stage of development by the opening of the Civil
                    War, but the vast interurban system of Indiana was constructed after 1890. In fact most of the lines
                    were built between 1900 and 1915. Strange to say, in this field of transportation, the lines and
                    rolling stock have disappeared as rapidly as they came in. The high period of the interurban lasted
                    less than a quarter of a century.
            It was in the spring of 1898 that I first saw an automobile, or horseless buggy. By 1908, there were
                    quite a few in every city. Three years later, they were numerous enough to furnish all urban areas
                    with a real traffic problem, but with no parking problem as yet. In the summer of 1916, I bought a
                    Model T Ford car, and have owned some kind of an automobile for almost twenty-three years.
            I remember the day when the farm wagon was the means of transportation for my father and his family.
                    This was followed by a period when two-seated spring-wagons were used. The family was growing in
                    this epoch. "Growing" being interpreted, means that the number of children
                    increased from four to seven during the spring-wagon age, while, at the same time, the older
                    children increased considerably in stature and weight. The truth is that the two-seated carry-all
                    worked pretty well as long as there were not over five children. The parents, a baby, and one small
                    child could occupy the front seat. The three older children could sit comfortable in the rear seat.
                    More was accomplished at times but it was with difficulty. There were emergencies, I believe, when
                    the two seats held all nine of us, which meant five in the rear, with two youngsters, who at
                    frequent intervals stood up to rest all concerned, seated on the knees of older children. As the
                    rising generation grew older, one, two, and sometimes three single buggies were maintained.
            
            There were country families who maintained carriages, but these were expensive luxuries for both
                    rural and town families. In the ante-automobile age, country families held a distinct advantage over
                    city people in the matter of transportation. There were always horses and wagons on farms, and, when
                    a farmer purchased a carriage or spring-wagon, he simply supplied himself with a light set of double
                    harness and transformed a farm team into a pair of drivers at will. Two blacks, greys, bays, roans
                    or sorrels equipped with shiny harness and hitched to a Sunday vehicle always attracted attention.
                    The city family that could afford a carrige must also be able to own horses and assume the burden of
                    upkeep. This caused the phaeton, an equipage that required but one horse, to be popular with
                    dwellers in towns. The real situation was this, however, that business and professional men and
                    their families walked while many country families, who could not otherwise compete with them, rode
                    in spring-wagons, carriages, or buggies. In the larger cities, street-cars faced little competition
                    in the horse and buggy days. Just as gunpowder made all men equal in height a few centuries ago, so
                    motor cars have placed urban residents on a par with their country cousins in the matter of local
                    transportation.
            The sickle, of similar design to the familiar grass-hook of today, was the simple grain-harvesting
                    tool for a long age. The cradle, which superseded the sickle, was a boon to harvesters, but it was
                    largely superseded by the reaper in a comparatively short time. Born on a retarded frontier, where
                    there were numerous stumps in most of the fields, I saw much grain (wheat, oats, rye, flax)
                    harvested with the cradle. The reaper was in successful use twenty years before my day, but many
                    farmerrs in frontier areas of the Old Northwest were twenty-five years late in reaching the stage
                    where they could use it to advantage or afford to purchase it.
            For a few years after I was old enough to gather sheaves or help shock wheat, I saw harvesting done
                    by the reaper. One man drove the machine, and unless the crop was light, there were four binders and
                    two shockers. This meant a Torce of seven men, with two or three boys, to gather sheaves and carry
                    water. In a good field of grain, a farmer with a brisk team could keep the entire gang on the jump.
                    The regular harvest wage was $2.00 per day. To avoid a heavy outlay on labor and to ease
                    the high cost of machinery, two  farmers often joined in the
                    purchase of a reaper. It was not uncommon for the owner, or owners, to harvest the crop of some
                    neighbor and let him pay by his labor. When the cutting of a field of wheat started, four stations
                    were agreed upon. These separated the distance around the field into fmr approximately equal
                    sections. Each of the four binders must finish one section during every round of the reaper, advance
                    to the next section and so on till the field was finished. Whenever the driver was able to catch a
                    harvest-hand before his last bundle was tied and thrown out of the way, the men in the field were
                    apt to let out some lusty yells. In fact, as I remember it, the annual harvest season was a time of
                    much hilarity, though, as a rule, nothing but cold water was served to the men.
            From time immemorial, each sheaf was bound with a handfull of grain stalks. Just as the harvester was
                    ready to tie up a bundle, he would deftly size a proper amount of straw, divide it into equal parts,
                    and skilfully turn one part about the other at the heads so that when drawn about the sheaf the
                    "double-band" would hold together. Grasping the band at the union he would stoop
                    quickly, pick up the grain for his bundle, place the band around it, move his hands back towards the
                    butts of the two parts of the band, draw it up tightly, connect the ends with a hurried twist and
                    force them under a part of the band. An expert binder could do all this with real speed and
                    efficiency, but sheaves tied up by a poor workman would often fall apart before they could be placed
                    in the shock. I have never forgotten the moment when I succeeded in binding my first sheaf of wheat.
            Many farmers continued to use the reaper for a time alter the appearance of the self-binder. It was
                    in the early eighteen-eighties that I saw the first mechanical binder in action. It was but a few
                    years until binders were a part of the equipment of all grain farmers. I need not mention the more
                    modern combiners that are now used on many farms.
            The steam thresher, succeeding the threshing machine operated by horse-power, was in general use
                    before I was born. I remember very well separators that were not equipped with stackers, blowers or
                    self-feeders. The grain was carried to the bin or hauled to market in bags. Grain sacks were made to
                    hold two bushels. When filled with wheat, the weight was one hundred twenty pounds. A country boy
                    was  respected by his elders and companions when he could stand
                    flat-footed, place his hands and forearms about a two-bushel bag of wheat and lay it on his
                    shoulder. I never won renown for physical strength or prowess, but I recall that I first shouldered
                    a sack of wheat when I was seventeen years of age.
            The development of moving pictures, the evolution of the radio, the rapid perfection and extensive
                    use of air craft —each of which has greatly changed the world in which we
                    live—I feel no call to write about. These are phases of the shifting twentieth century
                    scene for men and women of a younger generation to handle. Like others of my age, I can, of course,
                    appreciate the difference between the new period and that which preceded the advent of the cinema,
                    the transmission of sound over the ether waves, and the navigation of the air. It is difficult, I am
                    sure, for all who have reached maturity since 1910 to correctly envision the conditions of the day
                    when there were no movies, no radio to turn on, and no airplanes, but humanity actually did somehow
                    struggle through long ages without them.
            I have written about tangible things, the changes connected with which it has been easy for anyone to
                    observe. In the wake of industrialism and the building of the accompanying financial structure,
                    there have come new conditions more baffling to the understanding. The simple civilization of
                    yesterday has gone forever. Millions of people are riding the surging waves produced by evolving
                    economic and social forces without rudder or compass. The leaders in the fields of industry and
                    finance seem to be as completely lost as the masses. Using his creative ingenuity, man has invented
                    numerous labor-saving machines, discovered marvelous processes, and developed intricate financial
                    methods. He has also perfected effective means of destruction for use in war. The result is that
                    civilized peoples are seemingly overwhelmed by the forces that have been turned loose in the world.
                    Men are at the mercy of these forces, it appears, and they must now employ their creative energies
                    to get in control of the powerful factors they have permitted to get the best of them or perish.
         
         
         
            
               Contributors to this issue: Dr. Paul Wallace Gates is an assistant professor of
                    history at Cornell University, 
                  Ithaca, New York
               . Dr. Irving McKee is an instructor in
                    English at Culver Military Academy, Culver, Indiana. Oliver W. Robinson is an instructor in English
                    at 
                        Vincennes
                     University, 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana. H. S. K. 
                        Bartholomew
                     is a retired newspaper man who lives near 
                        Goshen
                    , Indiana. Dr. Stephen S. Visher is a professor of geography at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana. Dr. Christopher B. Coleman is Secretary of the Indiana Historical Society and
                    Director of the Indiana State Library. DeWitt S. Morgan is Superintendent of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public Schools. Donald F. Carmony is associate professor of history at Indiana Central
                    College, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid.
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more copies of the following
                    numbers, especially those marked with asterisks: 
                        
                     ⋆Volume I, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1905).
                        Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
                        
                     ⋆Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907).
                        Volume VII, 4 (Dec., 1911).
                        
                     ⋆Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1912).
                        
                     ⋆Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
                        
                     ⋆Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
                        
                     ⋆Volume XVII, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1921).
                        Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
                        Volume XXII, 1, 4 (March, Dec., 1926).
                    
            
            The Indiana University Library will appreciate a gift of the following issues of the National Geographic Magazine: vols. I-VI (1890–1896, twelve issues per year),
                    IX (1898, twelve issues); XV (1904, twelve issues).
            In 1930, The Indiana Magazine of History published a General
                    Index for the first twenty-five volumes (1905–1929). The Index was compiled by
                    Dorothy Riker of the Indiana Historical Bureau. Every library and every individual possessing a file
                    of the Magazine for a period covered by the General Index, or
                    for any considerable portion of the period, should have a copy. It is still possible to obtain
                    copies at $1.00 each. Send orders to the Indiana Magazine of History, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the articles of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
         
         
            The Hollowell Family
            LESTER D. PREWITT
            
            There is a legend which relates that in the seventeenth century three Hallowell brothers came to
                    America from 
                        England
                    . Two of them settled in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the other going farther south. The latter was a very loud and forceful preacher. The
                    people insisted on writing his name Hollowell instead of Hallowell, and the descendants still spell the name with an o in the first
                    syllable.
            Thomas Hollowell, second of the name, son of John and Sarah Hollowell, of Norfolk County, 
                        Virginia
                    , was born on December 4, 1739, and married Mary Peele (or Peelle), daughter of Robert
                    and Elizabeth Peele. The cermony took place on December 7, 1760, in 
                        Quaker
                     meeting in 
                        Northampton County
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    . Thomas came to 
                        Orange County
                    , Indiana, in 1812, and died prior to 1830.
            John Hollowell, father of the second Thomas Hollowell, died in 1751 or 1752 in Norfolk County, 
                        Virginia
                    ; his will was proved April 16, 1752 (recorded in Will Book If, p. 246). The will of
                    John Hollowell, husband of Sarah Rountree, mentions a cousin Thomas, and a brother Thomas, and
                    children (Rachel Copeland, Mary, Sarah, Rachel, John, and Thomas). In Will Book 5f of Norfolk
                    County, 
                        Virginia
                    , are recorded wills olf two Thomas Hollowells—one of them (p. 208), dated
                    June 16, 1693, probated September 15, 1693, mentions children (Thomas, John, William, Elizabeth,
                    Katherine, and Luke). The other will (p. 22), dated March 15, 1686, probated May 17, 1687, mentions
                    a wife Alice, and children: Edmond, Thomas, Henry, Joseph, Benjamin, John, Sarah, Elizabeth, Alice.
                    Sarah, the wife of the first John Hollowell was the daughter of Moses and Sarah Rountree. Moses died
                    in 
                        Perquimans County
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    , in 1755. His will, made on July 21, 1755, mentions his wife, Sarah, and children:
                    Sarah, Hannah, Ledy, Ann. The will of his daughter Hannah, probated in 1759, mentions sisters Sarah
                    and Ledy, and is witnessed by Joe and Abner Hollowell.1
            
            Mary Peele, wife of the second Thomas Hollowell was born on February 2, 1742 (o.s.) and died on
                    January 11, 1813. She was the daughter of Robert Peele (or Peelle) who was born on June 29, 1709,
                    and died on July 13, 1782, in 
                  
                     1 Will Book, 1756. North Caroina (Office of Secretary of State),
                        37.
               
                    
                    
                        Northampton County
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    .2 Robert married Elizabeth Edgerton and they moved from Nansemond
                    County, 
                        Virginia
                    , to 
                        Northampton County
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                     in 1742. Elizabeth died April 26, 1749. Robert Peele, Jr., was a son of Robert and
                    Judith Peele. Judith's will was probated in August, 1756, in 
                        Northampton County
                    . A Robert Peele is listed as having contributed to the cause of American liberty during
                    the Revolutionary War.3
            
            The marriage of Thomas Hollowell and Mary Peele is recorded as follows: "1760, 12, 7.
                    Thomas, of 
                        Perquimans
                     Co., s. John and Sarah Colony of Va., Co. of Norfolk, m. Mary Peele, in Rick Square NH.
                    [Northhampton County]."
            In 1931 the family Bible of Thomas Hollowell was found in an attic at Paoli, 
                        Orange County
                    , Indiana, and is now in the possession of Joseph A. Hall, a great-great-grandson.
                    Nothing is recorded of John and Sarah Hollowell save that they lived in Norfolk County, 
                        Virginia
                    , and were the parents of Thomas Hollowell who lived in 
                        North Carolina
                    . The Bible records the death of the wife of Thomas as follows: "Mary
                    Hollowell, wife of Thomas Hollowell, late of 
                        North Carolina
                    , but now of Indiana Territolry, departed this life the 11th day of the first month, of
                    1813, at about 8 or 9 o'clock at night, aged 70 years and 9 months lacking 2
                    days."
            The record of the descendants of the Hollowell family was collected by John J. Hollowell of Farmer
                    City, 
                        Illinois
                    . He died on October 5, 1934. Prior to his death, he sent a copy of his material to
                    Lester D. Prewitt, Forest City, 
                        Iowa
                    , who has compiled the following outline adding some data collected by himself.
            
                    Children of Thomas and Mary Peele Hollowell:
                    4
                
            Abigale (Abigail)—b. Dec. 26, 1761; m. 1784 to John Spivey; children: Elizabeth (b. 1785),
                    Exum (b. 1787), Mariam (b. 1790), Charity (b. 1794), Becca (b. 1797), Abba (b. 1800), Ephraim (b.
                    1802). John Spivey, the husband of Abigale Hollowell, died on October 10, 1805.
            Sarah—b. Dec. 24, 1763; m. 1785 to Ralph Fletcher; children: Mary (b. 17877), Joshua (b.
                    1790), Achsah (b. 1793), Betty (b. 1796), Jesse (b. 1801), John (b. 1805).
            
               
                  2
                        
                            North Carolina
                         Will Book, No. 1, 253.
               
                  3 Stephen B. Weeks Southern Quakers and Slavery (Johns Hopkins University Studies in History and Political Science. Extra
                        Volume XV, 
                            Baltimore
                        , 1896). 190–191.
               
                  4 Thomas Hollowell, who married Mary Peele, was a son of John and Sarah
                        (Rountree) Hollowell.
            
            
            John—b. Jan. 11, 1766; m. 1786, to Miriam Overman; children: Henry (b. 1787), Jesse (b.
                    1790), Mary (b. 1792), Sarah (b. 1794), Jonathan (b. 1796), Eli (b. 1798), Aaron (b. 1801), John (b.
                    1803). John Hollowell and his family moved from 
                        North Carolina
                     to Indiana Territory, in April, 1807, and settled near the present town of Valeene, 
                        Orange County
                    . He was probably the first white settler in that county. His brother Robert and family
                    moved to the same vicinity a few years later.
            Miriam—b. 1769; m. 1804, to John Hobson; no children listed in records.5
            
            Robert—b. 1772; d. April 30, 1865; m. Oct. 23, 1794, to Elizabeth Cox, (dau. Thomas and
                    Phebe Cox); five children.
            William—b. 1775; m. 1797, to Phebe Cox; s. Robert (b. 1802; c. 1804). Phebe may have been
                    a sister of Elizabeth Cox, since her name is the same as that of Elizabeth's mother. No
                    further record of this line.
            Thomas—b. 1777. No further record.
            Joseph (Josse)6—b. Aug. 16, 1780; moved to Indiana in 1809; d. 1822
                    (about), 
                        Orange County
                    ; m. Elizabeth Woodward of 
                        North Carolina
                     (Elizabeth—b. Jan. 16, 1,778; d. July 1857; dau. Josua [Joshua] and Mary
                    Woodward); five children. The father of Elizabeth Woodward Hollowell died in 
                        Wayne County
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    , in 1789, and his will was probated in April of that year.
            
               Children of Robert and Elizabeth (Cox)Hollowell:
               7
            
            Smithson—b. 1775; m. Rachel Chenoweth. Smithson Hollowell lived on a farm near
                    Hardinsburg, 
                        Washington County
                    , Indiana. He was a faithful quaker, and twice each week made the seven-mile journey on
                    horseback to the Lick Creek 
                        Quaker
                     Meeting in 
                        Orange County
                    . Children of Smithson and Rachel (Chenoweth) Hollowell were: Robert (m. Sarah
                    McIntosh), John (m. Phoebe Colclasure), William (m. Emily Coulter), Thomas (m. Malinda Coulter),
                    Maryanna (m. Martin Kinkade), Ellen (m. Harvey Walter), Martha (m. Leander Hardin).
            Michal—b. 1777; m. William Lindley. Children of William 
                  
                     5 Hinshaw, American 
                                    Quaker
                                 Genealogy, I, 308, gives the marriage date an April 16, 1804, at
                            Contentney meetinghouse. 
                                Wayne County
                            , 
                                North Carolina
                            . This was a second marriage for John Hobson.
                  
                     6 The name Josse is formed from Joseph, and should not be confused with Jesse as was done by J. J.
                            Hollowell in his records.
                  
                     7 Robert Hollowell, who married Elizabeth Cox, was a son of Thomas and
                            Mary (Peele) Hollowell
               
                     and Michal (Hollowell) Lindley were: Edmund (b. 1817; d. 1833);
                    Areanna (b. 1818; d. 1833, of cholera); Uriah (b. 1820; d. 1853), Alfred (b. 1822; d. 1891; m.
                    Martha J. Maxwell), Elizabeth (b. 1824; d. 1860; m. Samuel Lindley), Asenath (b. 1825; d. 1911; m.
                    1849, to Elisha Parker), Hiram (b. 1827; d. 1893; m. (1) Laura White and (2) Elizabeth Woodward),
                    Sarah (b. 1829; d. 1907; m. 1850, to Cader Newsom), Jonathan (b. 1832; d. 1926; m. (1) 1852, to
                    Elmira Starbuck and (2) 1858, to Ann Fisher), William (b. 1838; d. 1928; m. (1) 1865, to Harriet
                    Shaw and (2) to Margaret Ward), Walter (b. 1840; d. 1862), 
                        Milton
                     (b. 1841; d. 1887), Laban (b. 1843; d. 1923; m. Anna Frazier), Hannah E. (b. 1845; d.
                    1855).
            Nathan—b. 1779; d. 1865; m. Nancy Everett. Children of Nathan and Nancy (Everett)
                    Hollowell; James (b. 1821; d. 1895; m. (1) 1841, to Celia Thomas and (2) 1859, to Mary Amanda
                    Trueblood Lindley, widow of Jonathan Thomas Lindley and dau. William Penn and Anna Trueblood),
                    Elizabeth (b. 1822; d. 1863; m. 1850, to Joseph Newsome), Robert (died unmarried), Joseph A. (b.
                    1824; d. 1897; m. 1844, to Deborah Dixon), Nathan (no data), Nancy (b. 1838; d. 1867; m. 1854, to
                    John A. Lindley).
            Peggy—b. 1800; m. Thomas Lindley. Children of Thomas and Peggy (Hollowell) Lindley were:
                    Eli, Robert, Elizabeth, Charles, Nathan, William, Aba, and Sarah.
            William—b. 1803; m. Mary Lindley. Children of William and Mary (Lindley) Hollowell were:
                    Michal (m. Wood Boyd), Elizabeth (m. Jesse Boyd; thirteen children,8 one of
                    whom, Lindley Boyd, m. Sarah Jane Miller).
            Polly (Mary)—b. 1806; m. Exum Morris; one dau. Margaret (b. 1826; d. 1912; m. John Hall,
                    who was born in 1821 and died in 1907). Polly (Hollowell) Morris died soon after the birth of her
                    daughter. After the death of his wife, Exum Morris moved to 
                        Parke County
                    , Indiana, where he married a second time and reared a family. Children of John and
                    Margaret (Morris) Hall were: Robert W.(b.—1843; d. 1863), Exum (b. 1845; d. 1929; m.
                    Sarah J. Trotter), Mary Ellen (b. 1846; d. 1853), Richard W. (b. 1849; d. 1900; m. Margaret
                    Gardner), Anna J. (b. and d. 1851), Catherine (b. 1852; d. 1897; m. Bayless Palmer), Nancy M. 
                  
                     8
                            History of Lawrence. 
                                    Orange
                                 and 
                                    Washington Counties
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 580.
               
                     (b. 1854; d. 1858), Joseph A. (b. 1857; m. 1879, to Mary
                    Frances Apple), Laura Decker (no data), Morton W. (b. 1864; m. Louisa Teaford), Leulla (b. 1870; m.
                    James A. Durrett).
            
               Children of James and Cecelia (Thomas)Hollow
                        ell:
               9
            
            Robert Thomas—b. 1842; d. 1867.
            Amos K.—b. 1844; d. 1921; m. (1) Adeline Parker and (2) May I. Kramer.
            Nathan—b. 1847; d. 1874.
            James S.—b. 1849; m. Sara Engle.
            Julda J.—b. 1853; d. 1898; m. Christian Stiefel.
            Iram—b. 1856; d. 1858.
            
               Children of James and Mary A. (Trueblood-Lindley)Hollow ell:
               10
            
            
               
                        Elwood
                     L.—b. 1860, d. 1898, m. 1890, to Hannah Esther Newby.
            Edmond J.—b. 1863, d. 1888.
            John J.—b. 1865; m. 1888, to Jeanette A. Gibbens.
            Nancy—b. 1869; d. 1929; m. 1892 to Ora A. Morris.
            
                    Children of Joseph and Elizabeth Hollowell Newsome:
                    11
                
            Mary Emma—b. 1852; d. 1932; m. 1906 
                        Milton
                     Hanson.
            Nancy M.—b. 1854; d. 1865.
            Lysias E.—b. 1858; m. Eliza J. Gaston.
            
               Children of Joseph A. and Deborah (Dixon)Hollowell:
               12
            
            Charles—b. 1846; d. 1928; m. Anna B. McCoy (d. 1931).
            Silas D.—b. 1850; d. 1924; m. 1874 to Phioba Scaaf (d. 1930).
            Rufus—b. 1851; d. 1909; m. Elvira Smith.
            Nathan L.—b. 1853; d. 1918; m. Minnie Cooley.
            Mary Elma—b. 1856; d. 1859.
            Morris W.—b. 1858; d. 1932; m. 1901, to Kate Smith.
            Walter—b. 1861; m. 1880, to Katherine Schaffer.
            Martha E.—b. 1864; m. 1884, to Atwood H. Rowley.
            Robert E.—b. 1868; m. 1892, to Ophelia Carter.
            
               
                  9 James Hollowell, who married Cecelia Thomas, was a son of Nathan and
                        Nancy (Everett) Hollowell.
               
                  10 This is the same James Hollowell (son of Nathan Hollowell), who first
                        married Cecelia Thomas. His second wife was Mary A. (Trueblood) Lindley, widow of Thomas
                        Lindley.
               
                  11 Elizabeth Hollowell, who married Joseph Newsome. was a daughter of
                        Nathan Hollowell and sister of James Hollowell.
               
                  12 Joseph A. Hollowell, who married Deborah Dixon, was a son of Nathan
                        Hollowell, and brother of James and Elizabeth Hollowell.
            
            
            
               Children of John A. and Nancy (Hollowell)Lindley :13
            
            Isabel Ann—b. 1856; m. John Kelamo.
            Nathan A.—b. 1857; m. 1880, to Ida Florence Apple.
            Martha E.—b. 1859; m. 1879, to Worth Atkinson.
            Homer—b.1860; m. 1899, to Bessie Hanna.
            
               Children of Jose Woodward and Martha (Cloud)Hollowell:
               14
            
            Mary (May)—m. James W. Chritton; resides at Rocky Ford, 
                        Colorado
                    .
            Laura—b.—; d. Dec. 14, 1932, Sioux City, 
                        Iowa
                    ; m.
            Feb. 18, 1885, to James H. Belt (b. Jan. 27, 1855; d. June 20, 1929); children: Laurence J. (b. March
                    31, 1887; m. Nov. 23, 1917, to Kathryn Newland), Laura L. (b. Sept. 9, 1893; d. Dec. 24, 1834, Sioux
                    City, 
                        Iowa
                    ; unmarried).
            Children of Lawrence J. and Katherine (Newland) Belt were: James Lawrence (b. Aug. 26, 1921), Janet
                    K. (b. Dec. 15, 1928).
            Joel T.—b. 1842; d. before 1902; m. Alice Denslow.
            Elizabeth—d. 1902, prior to the death of her father, James H. Belt.
            Evelyn Jane—b. No. 27, 1847, 
                        Iowa City
                    ; d. July 14, 1802; buried in Hollowell lot at Koszta, 
                        Iowa
                    ; m. Dec. 2, 1866, 
                        Iowa City
                    , to George W. Ringler (b. Aug. 15, 1845, 
                        Athens
                     Co., 
                        Ohio
                    ; enlisted in Co. G, Thirteenth Regiment 
                        Iowa
                     Infantry; d. Mar. 22, 1893; buried at Koszta, 
                        Iowa
                    ; son Reuben Jacob and Elizabeth Jane Black Ringler; grandson of Jesse and Catherine
                    Boyer Ringler, and George and Fannie Carter Black). For marriage of Evelyn Jane Hollowell to George
                    W. Ringler, see Marriage Record Book C, p. 89, 
                        Iowa City
                    , 
                        Iowa
                    .
            
               Children of George W. and Evelyn Jane (Hollowell)Ringler:
               15
            
            Nettie—b. April 15, 1868; c. May 12, 1868.
            
               
                  13 Nancy Hollowell, who married John A. Lindley, was a daughter of Nathan
                        Hollowell, and sister of James, Elizabeth and Joseph A. Hollowell.
               
                  14 Josse Woodward Hollowell, who married Martha Cloud, was a son of Joseph
                        and Mary (Woodward) Hollowell and a grandson of Thomas and Mary (Peele) Hollowell. Martha Cloud
                        was a 'daughter of Joel and Rebecca (Thompson) Cloud. Martha was born in 
                            Orange County
                        , Ind., on Jan. 24, 1824, and died on Sept. 14, 1880, in 
                            Iowa County
                        , 
                            Iowa
                        . She wss buried beside her husband in Koszta Cemetery. The mother of Martha (Cloud)
                        Hollowell, Rebecca (Thompson) Cloud, was born on Feb. 10, 1786, in N. C., and died on November
                        19, 1844. Joel Cloud (father of Martha and husband of Rebecca) was born on July 4, 1787, in N.
                        C., and died on Sept. 26, 1834. His marriage to Rebecca Thompson occurred in 1811, in 
                            Orange County
                        . N. C. The parents of Rebecca (Thompson) Cloud were Samuel and Elizabeth (De Bow)
                        Thompson. Elizabeth when a widow received a pension on Samuel Thompson's Revolutionary
                        War service. Widow's Pension File, L. S. C. No. 4605. In. Pension Records, 
                            Washington
                        , D. C. Samuel's will is recorded in Book 5, p. 42, in 
                            Iowa County
                        , 
                            Iowa
                        
               
               
                  15 Evelyn Jane Hollowell, who married George 
                            Washington
                         Ringler, was a daughter of Josse Woodward and Martha (Cloud) Hollowell.
            
            
            Charles—b. Nov. 13, 1869; d. Sept. 21, 1882.
            June (Juniata)—b. Mar. 20, 1872, 
                        Iowa
                     Co., 
                        Iowa
                    ; d. Dec. 8, 1925, Forest City, 
                        Iowa
                    ; buried in Maringo Cemetery; m. April 12, 1898, to William Roscoe Prewitt (b. July 11,
                    1868, Owen Co. Indiana, near Freedom; migrated to 
                        Iowa
                     in 1876; resides at Forest City, 
                        Iowa
                    ); one son, Lester Dee (b. Aug. 24, 1899, Victor, 
                        Iowa
                    ; m. June 28, 1928, to Lela May Wolf, 
                        Iowa
                    ). For marriage record of June Ringler to William Roscoe Prewitt, see Marriage Record
                    Book G, p. 76, 
                        Iowa City
                    , 
                        Iowa
                    .
            Sanford—b. Jan. 20, 1876; m. Jan. 26, 1904, to Frances 
                        Brown
                    , Kirksville, 
                        Missouri
                    .
            Wilford Peele—b. Sept. 14, 1777; d. Oct. 17, 1934; buried at Waverly, 
                        Iowa
                    ; m. Jan. 31, 1906, Bremer Co., 
                        Iowa
                    , to Anna Donlon (dau. Michael and Anna Cummings Donlon); children: Hazelton, Edith,
                    Donald.
            Edith—b. July 29, 1880; m. Mar. 10, 1903; in 
                        Iowa
                     Co., 
                        Iowa
                    , to Orval G. Eben (b. Mar. 9, 1880 in 
                        Iowa
                     Co.); one dau. Evelyn Charlotte (b. June 9, 1908, in Two Harbors, 
                        Minnesota
                    ; m. Oct. 2, 1934, to Morris B. Toreyson, at 
                        Duluth
                    ).
         
         
         
            Queries and Answers: Query 78: ABBOTT-LESTER FAMILIES
            
            Samuel Abbott of English ancestry was born on February 2, 1819, and died on December 1, 1903. He was
                    one of a family of sixteen children. The family migrated from some eastern state arriving by
                    flatboat in 
                        Switzerland
                     County, Indiana. On the journey, family tradition says that the father, mother, and
                    four children died of an epidemic, and that the rest of the family arrived in 
                        Switzerland
                     County about 1821 or 1822. Probably the eldest child of this family was Elizabeth (b.
                    1793 or 1794; m.—Kingsley; d. February, 1881).
            Others of the family—Hiram, Mary, Samuel, Edward, Isaiah —went to 
                        Minnesota
                    . Another son, name unknown, perhaps went to 
                        Michigan
                    . The other children died in infancy. Samuel Abbott lived in various homes in 
                        Switzerland
                     County until 1834, when he went with his guardian, August Peabody. to 
                        Wabash County
                    , Indiana. He was married on August 30, 1840, to Eliza Ann Lester. She was born on March
                    5, 1821. The Lester family was also from 
                        Switzerland
                     County. Other members of the family were: Parmelia (who married Augustus Peabody),
                    Sarah (who married Eli Schooner), Eliza Ann, Mary, John, and David. Their mother is thought to have
                    been an Appleby. The mother of Samuel Abbott was a Currier. Names of parents and earlier ancestry of
                    Samuel Abbott and his wife, Eliza Ann Lester, are wanted.—G. D. G.
            Query 79.: ROBERTS
                    FAMILY
            
            Phillip [Philip] A. Roberts was born in 
                        North Carolina
                     on March 12, 1773; his wife, Mary Bobbitt (a widow, with at least one son, Elijah
                    Bobbitt) was born in 
                        Kentucky
                     on December 31, 1796. They were married about 1818 or 1820, and the following Roberts
                    children were born in 
                        Boone County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    : Thomas R. (b. 1827), Richard (b. 1829), Sally Ann (b. 1835), Francis M. (b. 1838),
                    Catherine J. (b. 1842). The family came to 
                        Greene County
                    , Indiana, after 1850. Phillip died on January 1, 1857; Mary died on November 29, 1857
                    and is buried in 
                        Kentucky
                     Ridge Cemetery, Jackson Township, 
                        Greene County
                    , Indiana. It has been said that the father of Phillip was William Roberts of 
                        Granville County
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    , who may have come to 
                        Kentucky
                     with Richard Henderson when Transylvania was founded. I would  like proof, name of Phillip's mother, and the exact place of
                    his birth. Also I wish to learn the maiden name of his wife, Mary, and the date and place of their
                    marriage.—O. B.
            Query 80: MORRISON-SLARROW FAMILY
            
            I am a descendant of Nancy Morrison who married Samuel Slarrow, a Revolutionary soldier. The Morrison
                    family was from 
                  Salem, New York
               , and the Slarrow family, originally from Saratoga
                    County, later moved to 
                        Steuben County
                    , 
                        New York
                    . Samuel was born on February 4, 1759, and died in 1839; Nancy (Morrison) Slarrow died
                    about 1820 in 
                        New York
                    . Their children were: John (b. 1794; d. 1868; m. Elizabeth Stamp), Jane (b. 1804; m.
                    Joseph Copeland), Mary (m — McMillan), Martha and Sydney, who died young, and Caroline
                    (b. 1807; d. 1876; m. Christopher Stamp). Caroline and Christopher Stamp migrated to 
                        Michigan
                     in 1844. Descendants of this line in Indiana have been trying for many years to find
                    records of the Morrison and Slarrow families, and will greatly appreciate further data or
                    suggestions.—J. S.
            Answer to Query 5 (September, 1936, pp. 309–10, M. McM.) : In addition to the answer to
                    this query published in December, 1936 (p. 434), giving inscriptions from tombstones of the
                    Eddingfield family, the following records concerning that family have been compiled. The immigrant,
                    name not known, born in 
                        England
                    , came to the 
                        United States
                     about 1750 with his wife, who was from 
                        Ireland
                     and whose name is not known. They had children: Thomas, Samuel, a daughter, Enoch,
                    Myer, and John E. The last was born in 
                        Fayette County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , about 1786, and married Hannah Thompson. They had children: Julia, Lucinda, William
                    Thompson, Thomas, and John Jamison Eddingfield. The last was born on February 12, 1815, in 
                        Butler County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , and died on October 8, 1875, near New Ross, Indiana. He was married on December 14,
                    1842, to Sarah Primrose Williamson, who was born on February 17, 1814, and died on May 28, 1899.
                    Sarah was the daughter of George Williamson, Sr., and his wife Margaret Morrison. George was born in
                    Holland, came to 
                        Pennsylvania
                     about 1750, and later moved to 
                        Warren County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . The children of George and Margaret (Morrison) Williamson were: David, George Jr.,
                    James,  John, Mary W., Jane, Keziah, Margaret, and Sarah
                    Primrose (married as above stated), John Jamison and Sarah Primrose (Williamson) Eddingfield had
                    children: George Williamson, Calvin, Mary Ann, William Thompson, Oscar 
                        Marion
                    , James Carey, and Edgar Newton. Of this family, James Carey was born on May 1, 1856, in 
                        Butler County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , and died on April 24, 1933, at New Ross, Indiana. He was married on January 28, 1889,
                    to Arretta Esham Huffington (b. Nov. 23, 1855, at Leesville, Indiana; d. Dec. 23, 1932; dau. of
                    James 
                        Madison
                    , Sr., and his wife Eliza Holland Huffington). I have never found any proof of
                    Revolutionary service in these family lines.—Rev. Paul W. Eddingfield, 965 N. Ewing St., 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
            Answer to Query 71 (December, 1938, p. 496, J. M. B.): The will of Thomas Byrn appears in 
                        Harrison County
                     Will Records 1809–1832 (pp. 130–131). The will, made April 29,
                    1827, and probated August 25, 1827, mentions sons—solomon, David, Jesse, John;
                    daughters—Susannah, Sally, Nancy, Mary, Catherine; and his wife Catherine, who was
                    appointed executrix. Ages of the children were not given. The will was witnessed by Gillam Harris,
                    Joseph Denbo, and John Cunningham.—Miss Dorothy Riker, Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
            Second answer to Query 71: The marriage of Thomas Byrn and Catherine—, will be found in 
                        North Carolina
                     records. The will of William Byrn, dated March 29, 1813, was probated on October 12,
                    1813; his wife Christinia is mentioned, but no children. William and Charles Leeson Byrn lived on
                    the same section of land, northeast of Corydon, while the land of Thomas Byrn was southwest of
                    Corydon. I know many of the descendants of the Bryn family, and something of the early history of
                    the Thomas Byrn family, and will be glad to assist further, if the one interested will write me.
                    Mrs. B. F. Yeager, of Corydon, informed me of this query in the Indiana Magazine of
                        History.—
                        Benton
                     Windell, R. R. 2, Corydon, Indiana.
            Answer to Query 72 (December, 1938, p. 496, U. S.) : In regard to the query concerning Mary Banks who
                    married Isaac Mayfield and was thought to be the daughter of Lynn and Sarah Banks, proof of the line
                    may be found in Tyler's Quarterly Historical and Genealogical Magazine,
                    XV, 116–26,  236–53; XVI,
                    21–32, 114–22, in articles by Mrs. S. W. Hiden of 
                        Newport
                     News, 
                        Virginia
                    . Proof is given that Linn Banks, son of Gerrard and Ann Linn married Sarah—,
                    and that they had the following children: William (b. June 3, 1761, in Culpepper County, 
                        Virginia
                    ; m. Elizabeth 
                        Brown
                    ), Susannah, Sarah (m. — Poindexter), Lucy (m. — Marksbury), Mary
                    (m. Isaac Mayfield of Query 72), John, Cevina (m.—Taylor), Nancy (m. William Wilson),
                    Gerrard, and Sophia. William and Elizabeth (
                        Brown
                    ) Banks were married on December 11, 1801. They went from 
                        Virginia
                     to Garrard County 
                        Kentucky
                    , and later to 
                        Putnam County
                    , Indiana. William Banks was in the Revolutionary War. The children of Gerrard and Ann
                    Linn (Lynn) Banks are given as: Linn (Lynn), William, Ruben, Thomas, Adam, Gerrard, Elizabeth, Mary,
                    Sarah, and Rachel. The older family lived in Stafford County, 
                        Virginia
                    , but Linn and his family moved to Culpepper Connty, 
                        Virginia
                    . Mrs. W. M. Sweeney, Astoria, L. I., supplied the information in this answer concerning
                    the migrating of William Banks to Indiana.—Miss Mary Martin, 
                        Fredericksburg
                    , Indiana.
            Answer to Query 74 (December, 1938, p. 497, W. I. U.): The Revolutionary service of John Groenendyke,
                    mentioned in this query, collected by Mrs. Ora A. Doyle, Clinton, Indiana, and published in the Roster of Soldiers and Patriots of the American Revolution Buried in Indiana (p.
                    166), states that he was born on June 5, 1756, at 
                  New
                            Brunswick, New Jersey
               , served
                    as a private in Middlesex County, 
                        New Jersey
                    , died November 1, 1824, and is buried as stated in the query, Groenendyke Cemetery,
                    Eugene, 
                        Vermillion County
                    , Indiana. He married Lucretia Rappleye on March, 30, 1797. They had one
                    child—John. It seems probable that there was a connection with the James Groenendyke who
                    was born in 
                        New Jersey
                     in 1770 and died in 
                        Fayette County
                    , Indiana, in 1837. As the first wife of James was Barbara Buck who died in 
                        Henry County
                    , Indiana, and many descendants of whom are living in 
                        Henry County
                    , the Curator of the 
                        Henry County
                     Historical Society Museum, Mr. Clarence H. Smith, 
                        New Castle
                    , may be able to make connections in this family. —M. T. M.
         
         
         
            Lawrence County Cemetery Records
            BERNICE S. MARTIN
            
            
                    The Elijah Allen Cemetery:
                    1
                
            Cooper, Brillia I., dau. G. L. and Ph. E. Cooper; b. Dec. 10, 1873; d. Feb. 4, 1874.
            Cooper, Hannory—b. Jan. 17, 1873; d. Feb. 3, 1873.
            Cooper, Ory Coline—b. Jan. 17, 1873; d. Feb. 14, 1873.
            Darr, Elizabeth—b. Oct. 28, 1822; d. Sept. 11, 1896.
            Darr, Elizabeth—b. Oct. 28, 1822; d. Sept. 11, 1896.
            Darr, John P.—b. Dec. 22, 1815; d. May 15, 1893.
            Darr, George W.b. Jan. 1, 1856; d. Feb. 7, 1906.
            Darr, Hannah—b. Jan. 17, 1858; d. Apr. 4, 1896.
            Darr, Rachael—Aau. of J. P. and E. Darr; d. July 21, 1843; age 1 yr., 6 mos., 2 days.
            Darr, Sophie M.—geb. Dec. 11, 1794; gest. Nov. 21,
                    1854.
            Flinn, Charley W.—Sept. 3, 1874; Dec. 28, 1918.
            Flinn, George—b. Feb. 11, 1748; d. Jan. 6, 1828.
            Flinn, Jno.—Co. H., 24th Ind. Inf. (no dates).
            Flinn, Luther C.-b. Feb. 25, 1877; d. Nov. 18, 1900.
            Flinn, Millie A.—wife of Thomas Flinn; June 16, 1844; Aug. 26, 1929.
            Flinn, Thomas—May 16, 1844; Feb. 17, 1927.
            Glaesline, Arminey—dau. of G. M. and P. Glaesline; b. Sept. 15, 1850; d. Aug. 13, 1851.
            Glaesline, Ens A.—son of G. M. and P. Glaesline; b. Sept. 16, 1850; d. Aug. 18, 1851.
            Glaesline, Eliza C.—1856 (no other data).
            Glaesline, Mariah E.—1856–1920.
            Glaesline, Generall—son of G. M. and P. Glaesline; d. May 22, 1855; age 6 mos., 21 days.
            Glaesline, George M.—Jan. 4, 1816; d. Jan. 13, 1884.
            Glaesline, Nancy Ann D.—dau. of G. M. and P. Glaesline; d. May 28, 1865; age 2 yrs., 11
                    mos., 19 days.
            Glaesline, Patience—wife of G. M. Glaesline;—b. Jan. 6, 1818; d. May 14, 1898.
            Gutherie, James A.—b. Aug. 15, 1841; d. Jan. 25, 1862.
            Gutherie, Rachel—b. May 2, 1811; d. Sept. 22, 1836.
            Guthery, Eley A.—dau. of H. and N. Guthery; b. Mar. 25, 1815; d. Jan. 15, 1850.
            Guthery, Hughey—b. 1774; d. Jan. 25, 1847 (new stone).
            Guthery, Nancy, Wife of H. Guthery—b. Oct., 1780; d. Dec. 11, 1862.
            Guthrie, Daniel—b. Feb. 14, 1737; d. Sept. 17, 1826.
            Guthrie, Hugh—d. Jan. 25, 1847 (old stone).
            Guthrie—infant son of Sam'l and S. Guthrie; b. and d. Nov. 14, 1832.
            Guthrie, Jan—b. Feb., 1747; d. Aug. 18, 1826.
            Guthrie, Louisa J.—dau. of Sam'l and S. Guthrie; b. July 3, 1852: d. Aug. 24,
                    1853.
            Guthrie, William—b. Aug. 19, 1805; d. July 9, 1836.
            
               
                  1 Mrs. Bernice S. Martin. who copied these records, is a resident of 
                            Bedford
                        , Indiana. The Elijah Allen Cemetery is located at Leesville, Lawrence County,
                        Indiana.
            
            
            Henderson, Joseph—b. July 8, 1808, in 
                        Montgomery
                     Co., Va.; d. Aug. 13, 1872.
            Henderson, Pheba—b. May 3, 1820, in Penn.; dau. of L. and S. White; d. Feb. 2, 1858.
            Hubard, Sarah L.2—b. Sept. 16, 1861; d. June 10, 1870.
            Hubard, William H.—b. Apr. 15, 1866; d. Aug., 1870.
            Kindred, Nancy P.—dau. of Wm. and R. Kindred; d. June 30, 1861; age 11 mos., 1 day.
            Kindred, Rachel—wife of Wm. D. Kindred; d. June 29, 1851; age 43 [?] yrs., 3 mos., 8 days.
            Kindred, William D.—b. Sept. 18, 1810; d. July 22, 1868.
            Lemp, Karline, G.S.C.—geb. Dec. 15, 1849; gest. Apr.
                    10, 1855.
            Mathews, Alfred A.—son of Matthew and Nancy Mathews; b. March 11, 1857; d. Nov. 27, 1858.
            Mathews, Isaac—b. Mar. 16, 1805; d. Oct. 17, 1880.
            Mathews, Mary—wife of Isaac Mathews; b. Oct. 5, 1801; d. March 3, 1870.
            Mathews, Matthew—Jan. 9, 1835; April 19, 1919.
            Mathews, Nancy E.—Dec. 16, 1833; May 8, 1911.
            Mathews, Theodore Emery—son of F. I. and J. W. Mathews;—Dec. 7, 1888; Nov. 7,
                    1892.
            Mathis, Jacob—b. Nov. 29, 1837; d. Jan. 24, 1879.
            Mathis, William—Co. G, 140th Ind. Inf. (no dates).
            McKimmey, Euretta—wife of L. McKimmey; b. Dec. 26, 1830; d. March 18, 1858; dau. of I. and
                    M. Mathews.
            McKimme, Isaac C.—son of L. A. and Euretta McKimmey; b. July 28, 1856; d. Nov. 28, 1862.
            McKimmey, Louis A.—b. Nov. 29, 1833; d. June 24, 1869.
            Riley, Harvey—b. Oct. 10, 1878; d. July 2, 1880.
            Rosenbaum, Sarah—wife of C. J. Rosenbaum; Apr. 12, 1846; age 22 yrs., 5 mos., 18 days.
            Weddle, Florence—dau. of H. A. and M. S. Weddle; b. Aug. 17, 1873; d. Sept. 26, 1873.
            Williams, Addie O.—b. Nov. 20, 1888; d. Aug. 23, 1890.
            Williams, Charley M.—1874–1931.
            Williams, Elizabeth J.—dau. of Jacob F. and Emily J. Williams; b. June 27, 1843; d. Sept.
                    21, 1906.
            William, Emily P.—1876–19—.
            Williams, Emily J.—wife of Jacob F. Williams; b. Dec. 25, 1821; d. Oct. 24, 1904.
            Williams, Hattie P.—b. Aug. 10, 1881; d. Aug. 2 [?], 1881.
            Williams, Isaac—b. Apr. 29, 1811; d. Feb. 6, 1872.
            Williams, Jacob F.—b. June 19, 1816; d. Nov. 27, 1860.
            Williams, J. L.—Co. D, 33rd. Ind. Inf. (no dates).
            Williams, Ova O.—b. Mar. 20, 1900; d. Feb. 19, 19018
            
               
                  2 Sarah L. and William H. Hubbard were children of J. H. and M. A.
                        Hubbard.
               
                  3 There is an additional stone bearing no name and a single date, Nm. 27,
                        1832. There are also about one hundred ten graves that can be located by depressions in the
                        earth or by rough sandstone slabs. This cemetery is the burial place of many of Lawrence
                        Gannty's first settlers.
            
         
         
         
            Hardin Family Cemetery Records
            LOIS BROWN CARTER
            
            Aaron Hardin—b. Dec. 17, 1789; d. June 17, 1866.
            Sarah (Consort of Aaron Hardin)—b. Feb. 7, 1787; d. May 11, 1863.
            Alberter [sic] L. Hardin—b. June 6, 1818; d. May 27, 1843.
            Matilda Kelso (Consort of P. D. Kelso)—d. Mab. 29, 1839.
            Matilda (daughter of P. D. and M. Kelso)—d. June 10, 1843; age 4 yrs.
            Leander Hardin—b. July 24, 1816; d. September 29, 1839.
            Mary E. Hardin—b. May 13, 1823; d. August 18, 1827.
            John F. Hardin (son of J. M. and M. C. Hardin)—b. Dec. 17, 1860; d. Jan. 21, 1861.
            Aaron H. Schoonover (son of R. and M. Schoonover)—b. Oct. 12, 1836; d. Jan. 15, 1866.
            Matilda E. Schoonover (dau. of P. and M. Schoonover)—b. June 11, 1844; d. May 11, 1845.
            Andrew J. Hardin—b. Oct. 17, 1824; d. Oct. 18, 1866.
            A. J. and M. Hardin (twin daughters)—b. Sept. 26, 1866; d. Oct. 23, 1866.
            Aaron Leathenvood Hardin—b. Nov. 19, 1826; d. April 27, 1896.
            Yirginia Ann Patton Hardin (wife of A. L. Hardin)—b. Feb. 7, 1826; d. Feb. 6, 1900.
            Mary Louisa Hardin Coombs—b. Sept. 21, 1848; d. Feb. 28, 1924.
            William Preston Hardin (son of A. L. and B] Hardin)—b. Sept. 21, 1855; d. August 7, 1866.
            Frank L. Hardin—b. May 23, 1867; d. Mar. 11, 1872.
            Infant (son of Aaron L. and 
                        Virginia
                     Ann Hardin)—b. and d. Aug. 12, 1847.
            Albert McClellan Hardin—b. July 1, 1862; d. Sept. 11, 1866.
            David P. Hardin—b. July 1, 1862; d. July 4, 1862.
            Harley H. Hardin—b. April 27, 1869; d. Sept. 26, 1874.
            Aaron E. Hardin—b. Feb. 17, 1853; d. April 6, 1936.
            Sallie F. Hardin (wife of A. E. Hardin)—b. April 10, 1863; d. April 13, 1906.
            Rene C. Hardin—b. 1891; d. 1917.
            Lorenzo M. Hardins—b. 1901; d. 1920, in 
                        Germany
                    ; Bugler Co. A, Fifth Infantry, Second Brigade of American Forces.
            Margaret E. Cravens (daughter of J. A. and S. Cravens)—b. May 7, 1846; d. Nov. 23, 1848.
            
               
                        
                     1 Aaron Hardin founded Hardinsburg, Indiana, in 1838. The Centennial
                            anniversary of the following was observed in Aug. 16–17 1938.
                        The Hardin Family Cemetery is located in 
                                Madison
                             Township, 
                                Washington County
                            , Indiana. In addition to members of the Hardin family. some neighbors and
                            friends were buried in the Hardin Cemetery. The burial ground was recently enclosed by a
                            strong wire fence, which was erected by descendants of the Hardin family. Mrs. Lois 
                                Brown
                             Carter, who copied the records, is a granddaughter of Aamn L. and 
                                Virginia
                             (Patton) Hardin.
                    
               
                  2 Albert McClellan Hardin and David P. Hardin were twins.
               
                        
                     3 Lorenzo MeIntosh Hardin's name wan placed on the Gold Star
                            Honor Roll. Indiana World War Records: Gold Star Honor Roll (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1921). 691. He is classed as a bugler. His record follows:
                        "Son of Aaron E. and Sarah McIntosh Hardin: born June 12, 1901, 
                                Madison
                             Township, 
                                Washington County
                            , Ind. Farmer. Entered service September 1, 1919. 
                                Louisville
                            , Ky. Trained at Camps Taylor, KY., and Meade, Md., assigned to Company H. 6th
                            Infantry. Sailed over seas October 17, 1919. Died of pneumonia January 2, 1920, Base
                            Hospital, Coblenz, 
                                Germany
                            . Body returned, and buried in Hardin Family Cemetery, near Hardinsburg,
                            Ind."
                    
            
            
            J. A. Cravens4—b. Nov. 4, 1818; d. June 21, 1893; age 74 years, 7
                    months, 17 days; "Served in Mexican War, in State Senate, and in Congress."
            Susan E. Cravens—d. Feb.—, 1895; age 71 years, 5 months, 18 days.
            Sarah A. Cravens—b. Dec. 26, 1856; d. August 3, 1876; age 19 years, 7 months, 7 days.
            John Cravens5—d. Nov. 15, 1879, age 83 years, 7 omnths, 12 days.
            Nancy Elizabeth (daughter of 
                        Washington
                     and Mary Hislip)—d. June 3, 1863; age 4 years, 8 months, 11 days.
            Mary Ida (daughter of 
                        Washington
                     and Mary Hislip)—d. Mar. 18, 1871; age 6 years, 2 months, 8 days.
            Martha J. Davis6—b. Oct. 27, 1861; d. Nov. 26, 1862.
            James E. Davis—b. July 27, 1869; d. Sept. 3, 1862.
            Charles R. Ellis—b. Oct. 4, 1819; d. Jan. 24, 1861.
            Sarah E. Ellis (wife of C. R. Ellis)—b. July 18, 1828; d. April 4, 1862.
            Sarah M. Ellis—d. Oct. 9, 1878; age 25 years, 26 days.
            William A. Ellis—4. June 17, 1876; age 24 years, 10 months, 14 days.
            A. Coulsen Ellis (son of S. G. and F. B. Ellis)—d. September 16, 1887.
            Ballard Lond—d. Nov. 6, 1851; age 6 years, 11 months, 3 days.
            Elizabeth K. Bogle (wife of John G. Bogle)—d. June 14, 1884; age 69 years, 7 months, 18
                    days.
            Jane (wife of Samuel J. Hagens)—d. January 17, 1828; age 34 years, 11 months, 17 days.
            Sarah Suddith—b. 1841; d. 1869.
            John A. Roll (son of John and Sarah Roll)—d. Nov. 21, 1867; age 8 years, 2 months, 17
                    days.
            Simeon (son of J. and Sarah Roll)—d. September 15, 1866; age 6 years, 7 months.
            
               
                  4 James A. Cravens of Hardinsburg served two terms in the national House
                        (1861–1865).
               
                  5 Near the grave of John Cravens is a wall stone with the initials
                        "J. C.," but nothing more.
               
                  6 Martha J. Davis and James E. Davis were children of Jwqh Id. snd
                        D—Davis.
            
         
         
         
            Early Wills of 
                        Orange County
                    , Indiana1 (Abstracts and Notes)
            MRS. N. B. MAVITY
            
            Ellexson, Jeremiah. Will—executed December 26, 1937—probated February 12,
                    1838—mentions wife, Winifred—daughters: Mary [Ellexson] Nail of 
                        Washington County
                    , Indiana, Zilpha [Ellexson] Rogers, Elizabeth and Winifred—references to
                    other children who are not mentioned by name.
            Chandler, William. Will—April 23, 1837—probated May 8, 1837
                    —mentions children: Elizabeth (eldest daughter), Robin, Catherine, Sarah, Isaac, Rachel,
                    William—wife, Mary—Ambors Goff and rest of wife's
                    children—executors: wife (Mary) and Joel Vandeveer.
            Duncan, George. Will—December 9, 1838—probated February 21,
                    1839—mentions wife, Patsy D. Duncan—lawful heirs of daughter Emily B.
                    Riley—"my body to be buried at the discretion of Alexander Wallace and Patsy D.
                        Duncan."2
            
            Reed, Joshua.3 Will—December 24, 1823—probated November
                    term of court, 1838—mentions daughters: Rachel Phillipps, Martha Marts, Mary
                    Mahan—"my body to be buried at discretion of Thomas Phillips, Jacob Marts, and
                    Peter Mahan"—witnesses: Alexander Wallace, Asa Burt, Edward Kearby.
            Duncan, George, Sr.4 Will—June 26, 1832—probated March 23,
                    1839—mentions wife, Elizabeth—children: Luvina Vest, Sarah Kearby, Jane Boon,
                    Polly Holmes, Fleming A. Duncan, George Duncan—witnesses: Alexander Wallace, Linzey
                    Duncan.
            Smith, Humphrey. Will—August 25, 1831—probated August 19,
                    1839—mentions wife, Abigail—sons of wife, Caleb and Jarvis—son of
                    testator, Allen Smith, Caleb and Jarvis—testator's daughter, Malissa Smith.
            Cunningham, William. Will—July 14, 1833—probated October 6,
                    1839—mentions wife, Deborah—daughters: Elizabeth Buckhanan, Anna
                    Cunningham—son-in-law, John Buckhanan, and his son William.
            Trimble, Jane. Will—June 21, 1839—probated October 11, 1839—mentions
                    daughters: Mary, Margaret and Elizabeth Trimble, Sarah Martin, wife of Nathan—sons:
                    Thomas and George—"My late husband, George Trimble."
            Boswell, Ichabod. Will—August 21, 1840—probated September 11,
                    1840—mentions wife, and heirs (none by name)—"My worthy son Samuel
                    Haladay to be executor of my will."
            Noblitt, Abraham. Will—August 26, 1840—probated September 21,
                    1840—mentions wife, Amelia; sons: Vandeveer, William, and John T.; daughters: Nancy Lynch
                    and Cynthia Noblitt.
            
               
                  1 This is the final installment of a series of abstracts of Wills of 
                            Orange County
                        , Indiana, prepared by Mrs. N. B. Mavity. See Indiana Magazine of
                            History (September and December. 1938). XXXIV, 384–387, 501–504.
                        for previous installments.
               
                  2 George Duncan was buried at Stamper Creek Cemetery, 
                            Orange County
                        , Indiana.
               
                  3 Revolutionary soldier. See Mrs. Roscoe C. O'Bryne, ed. Roster of Soldiers and Patriots of the American Revolution
                        Buried in Indiana (Broorkville, Indiana, 1938).
               
                  4 Revolutionary soldier. Ibid., 130. He is buried in
                        Stamper Creek Cemetery, 
                            Orange County
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            Hill, Joseph. Will—June 21, 1840—probated October 3, 1840—mentions
                    legal heirs of daughter Elizabeth (late Elizabeth Dixon)—son-in-law, James Huston and
                    Nancy his wife—son-in-law Busick Sanford and wife Jane—son Josiah Hill
                    (daughter, Mary Ann Hill and wife, Nancy Hill)—second wife's children: 
                        Franklin
                    , Margaret Jane, William, Joseph, Abigail.
            Harmon, Edwin F.5 Will—October 5, 1839—probated November
                    11, 1840—mentions mother and father—sisters: Polina and Lavisa Merilla
                    —brother, William Watson—Miss Betsey Brewer.
            Sears, John, Sr. Will—April, 1840—probated June 19, 1841—mentions
                    wife, Polly—children: Francis Asbury, Daniel Fletcher, Eliza Ann, Mary Jane, John,
                    William, 
                        Franklin
                    , Martha Talbott, Thomaa Morris—children of a former marriage: James B. Sears
                    and Elizabeth Gunton.
            Featherkile, George. Will—January 1, 1835—probated March 19,
                    1842—mentions wife, Polly—children: Anna Johnson, Polly Tyler, George
                    Featherkile, Adam Featherkile.
            Osborn, Abraham. Will—May 23, 1842—probated July 18, 1842—mentions
                    wife, Martha—sons: Abraham K., William C., Jesse—daughters: Abagail Holaday,
                    Mary Wilson, Rebecca Phipher, Hannah Moorman, Elizabeth Hill, Achsah Osborn, and Sarah Ann
                    Osborn—witnesses: Joseph Henley, Andrew Wilson.
            Denny, Simon. Will—September 23, 1837—probated July 19,
                    1842—mentions sons, Samuel and Davis.
            Cloud, John. Will—August 5, 1842—probated September 26, 1842
                    —mentions wife, Hannah—after Hannah's death, property to be sold and
                    funds to go to Lick Creek Monthly Meeting of Friends to be used in the promotion of useful
                    education—witnesses, Aaron Andrew, Thomas Newlin.—executors, Silas Dixon, Levi
                    Woody.
            Cornwell, Peter. Will—September 26, 1842—probated October 19,
                    1842—mentions wife, Elizabeth—children: Simon A., Nancy, William, Elizabeth.
            Self, John. Will—August 15, 1843—probated September 12, 1843
                    —mentions wife and children (not by name).
            Atkinson, Thomas. Will—November 2, 1840—probated April 20,
                    1844—mentions children: Thomas, Robert, Arthur, Henry, Ann, Margaret, Ruth,
                    Mary—sons, John and Arthur to be executors.
            Busick, Benjamin. Will—April 18, 1944—probated September 2,
                    1844—mentions wife, Eliza, her heirs and assigns forever.
            Ross—William. Will—August 28, 1844—probated December 11,
                    1844—property bequeathed to Polly, wife of John W. Sears.
            
               
                        Campbell
                    , Robert. Will—February 19, 1845—probated May 27,
                    1845—certain tract of land where there is a family graveyard to be kept for that
                    purpose—mentions sons: Robert A. M. 
                        Campbell
                     (a 
                  
                     5 Edwin Harmon was a brother to William Watson Harmon who was given
                            the contract for the carpenter work for the 
                                Orange County
                             Courthouse. He also built the old Presbyterian church, and the Simpson home on
                            North Gospel Street at Paoli. The Harmon family came from 
                                Massachusetts
                            . They are buried in the Paoli Cemetery.
               
                     minor), John H., Samuel, David M.—daughter, Nan
                    Taylor—heirs of "my daughters who are dead.6
            
            Farlow, Joseph.7 Will—July 5, 1845—probated August 9,
                    1845—mentions wife, Ruth—daughter, Deborah Jones—sons, Jonathan and
                    Nathan—son-in-law, Archibald Moulder and wife Hannah—daughter Mary's
                    children: Mary Ann, Thomas, and Mary.
            Moulder, Jacob. Will—October 18, 1845—probated March 20, 1846
                    —mentions wife, Elizabeth—daughter, Susannah Lindley—sons: John,
                    William, Lewis, Archibald, Oliver—daughters: Sally, Lydia, Mary Ann —Betsy
                    Jane and Archibald O. Moulder—children of Alexander Moulder—witnesses, Thomas
                    Braxton and Thomas Newlin.
            Throop, John.8 Will—December 28, 1846—probated February 8,
                    1847—mentions John S. Moore and Rebecca Jane Moore ("the children of my daughter
                    Jane Moore")—Jane Lefler (my adopted granddaughter)—children: Oliver
                    M. Throop, Jane Moore, Sophia Throop, John T. Throop.
            Scott, William. Will—December 14, 1841—probated May 28, 1847
                    —mentions wife, Nancy S. Scott—grandsons, William. A. D. Scott and Samuel T.
                    Scott—Martha Jane McPheeters and her heirs—"I reserve one-fourth acre
                    of land, where the graveyard now is, for a family burying place, never to be transferred out of the
                    family."—witnesses: Simeon Frost and Mary Frost.
            Leonard, Thomas. Will—January 4, 1843—probated August 18,
                    1847—mentions wife (not by name)—Jonathan Leonard, Isaac Leonard, Jemima
                    Harvey, James Leonard, Jane Seybold, Rachel Taylor, Nancy Seybold, Mary Compton, Baily Leonard,
                    Jeruel Leonard, Jabez Leonard, and Martha Cox.
            Meriam, Eliza.9 Will—July 8, 1847—probated September 25,
                    1847 —mentions daughter, Helen M. Lewis and her children—mentions desire to be
                    buried in the "burying ground" at Paoli, adjoining the grave of her husband (John
                    Meriam)—executor, John 
                        Wise
                    —witnesses: G. W. 
                        Wise
                     and A. J. Simpson.
            Cook, Jacob. Will—August 11, 1847—probated September 30, 1847
                    —mentions wife, Catharine—sons: Absolem, Abraham,
                    Valentine—daughters: Elizabeth Smith and Polly Underwood—minor heirs of
                    Absolem McCabe (deceased)—grandson David R. Bledsoe.
            Moorman, Zachariah. Will—August 9, 1847—probated August 25,
                    1847—mentions wife, Nancy—children (not by name)—lot No. 84 in
                    Paoli to be sold.10
            
            
               
                  6 See sketch of W. C. 
                            Campbell
                        , Histoty of Lawrence. 
                                Orange
                            , and 
                                Washington Counties
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1884). 605.
               
                  7 Joseph Farlow was a large landowner; south of Paoli in the vicinity of
                        the 
                            Beech Grove
                         Friends Church.
               
                  8 The Throop family setteld at an early date in 
                            Orange County
                        , having migrated from Stafford County. 
                            Virginia
                        . Miss Sophia Throop is said to have been the first woman teacher of 
                            Orange County
                        . Miss Jennie Throop, a granddaughter of John Throop, was a well-known teacher for
                        many years.
               
                  9 Eliza Meriam, wife of John Meriam, died on July 15, 1847, at the age of
                        sixty-one. She was a Prentiss (Prentice) of 
                            Vermont
                        . John Meriam was one of the men who founded the town of Hindostan of Martin County,
                        Indiana, one of the famous Hoosier "ghost towns." He came later to 
                            Orange County
                        , established a tavern known as "Mansion House," on the public
                        square in Paoli. Mrs. Meriam continued the tavern after her husband's death.
               
                  10 The date of death given on Zachariah Moorman's tombstone in
                        the Paoli Cemetery (August 10, 1843) is incorrect.
            
            
            Chastain, William. Will—undated—probated December 11, 1847 —mentions
                    wife (not by name)—sons: James M., William, Isaac.
            Shirley, Henry. Will—December 22, 1847—probated January 4,
                    1848—mentions wife, Catherin—children: George, Garrett, John, Westly,
                    Susannah, Harriet, Margaret Hertsel (formerly Shirley), Henry Brassie, heir of Ann Brassie (formerly
                    Ann Shirley), "my scholarship in Indiana Asbury University"—executors:
                    Andrew Wilson and George Shirley.
            Porter, James. Will—February 6, 1847—probated February 28,
                    1848—mentions two eldest sons, Thomas B. and James S.—daughter Mary
                    Hix—youngest son David—executor, James P. 
                        Campbell
                    .
            Gillum, John. Will—December 3, 1847—probated April 15, 1848—mentions
                    wife, Susannah—children: Mahala, Areana, Cameliza, Leer [Leah?], Seth, Thomas, James,
                    Osburn, William, John Westly—witnesses, Thomas Newlin and Michael Mavity.
            Piggott, Jacob Jackson. Will—December 7, 1848—probated December
                    1848—mentions wife, Nancy—four sons—three daughters (not by
                    name)—brother-in-law, Elijah Frazier, to be executor.
            Williams, Francis, Will—July 6, 1846—probated February 29, 1848
                    —mentions daughter, Catherine Boyden—son William—children of
                    deceased daughter Anna Gherkin—executor, William Boyden.
            Finley, David. Will—March 25, 1834—probated September 26, 1848
                    —mentions wife, Elizabeth—heirs of son Jefferson Finley: Josephine, Samuel,
                    Elizabeth.
            Thornton, Thomas Volney.11 Will—December 4, 1848—probated
                    May 29, 1849—mentions wife, Clarinda C. Thornton—brothers: Joseph, George,
                    Jefferson C.—sisters: Elizabeth M. Thornton, Caroline T. Woolfolk, Harriet M.
                    Norris—half-brother Henry P. Thornton—Joseph, son of sister
                    Caroline—nephew and namesake, Thomas V. Thornton, son of George.
            William, John. Will—May 26, 1849—probated July 19, 1849—mentions
                    wife, Rachel—sons: Isaac, Robert, John—grandson, William Bloomer Carter.
            Towell, Jesse H. Will—May 18, 1849—probated August 7, 1849—mentions
                    wife, Elizabeth—witnesses: Thomas Newlin and John Dixon, son of Simon.
            Cosgrove, Patrick.12—Will—March 15,
                    1849—probated August 14, 1849—mentions wife, Charity—two sons, John
                    and James.
            Self, Thomas. Will—August 19, 1849—probated January 12, 1850
                    —mentions son, Thomas A. Self—Hannah Stout, an heir—the heirs of
                    Elizabeth Ferguson, to wit: Joseph S. Ferguson, John M. Ferguson —other children: William
                    A., Thomas, John, Phillip, George, James Alexander—executors: son, James Alexander Self,
                    and "my esteemed friend William Holoday"—witnesses: William Pierson,
                    John B. Cart-Wright.
            
               
                  11Thomas Volney Thornton was a prominent lawyer of Paoli. His wife,
                        Clarinda Thornton. "married against discipline." as shown, by the minutes of
                        the Lick Creek monthly meeting, held in 
                            Orange County
                        , February 19, 1835. The Simpson home on North Gospel Street, Paoli, WM built for
                        them and the site for the Presbyterian church of Paoli was given by Mr. Thornton.
               
                  12 A soldier of the Mexican War. His wife waa Charity Underwood, widow of
                        Benjamin Underwood.
            
            
            Pound, Joseph. Will—November 20, 1849—probated April 16, 1850
                    —mentions son-in-law to be executor—wife Hannah—children and their
                    heirs (nat by name)—witnesses: Alfred Elliot and Abraham Tegarden.
            Trimble, Moses. Will—January 31, 1848—probated June 15,
                    1850—mentions James Jackson Trimble, John Dixon Trimble—Jane
                    Belcher's children—Isabell Wolfington to have $30, and her living
                    from the farm while she remains single—Lucinda Leonard and William Trimble to have
                    money—executors: William Marley and William Leonard.
            Irvine, William.18 Will—September, 1846—probated October
                    18, 1850—mentions sons: William W. and Jesse A.—daughters: Sarah Jeter, Anna
                    Baker, Eliza Spear, Martha McLane—children of deceased daughter—Lucinda
                    Tegarden—"my unfortunate daughter, Jane Irvine."
            McCracken, John. Will—September 14, 1850—probated May 29,
                    1851—mentions wife, Margaret—sons Ansil and Daniel—Azra
                    Cobb's heirs—witnesses: James Clark and John P. Davis.
            McDonald, William. Will—April 11, 1851—probated June 18, 1851
                    —mentions grandchildren: William M. Hobson, Rachel Hobson, Hiram
                    Hobson—executors: Eli Allen and Clement McDonald—witnesses: Jonathan Palmer
                    and Harmon Hobson.
            Roberts, Andrew. Will—June 16, 1851—probated August 25, 1851
                    —mentions wife, Nancy—sons (not by name)—witnesses: Arthur J.
                    Simpson and James C. Holmes.
            Hardman, Daniel. Will—July 17, 1851—probated September 29,
                    1851—mentions six oldest children: 
                        Washington
                    , Mary, Lumenious, Leonard, Abraham, John—other sons: David and 
                        Marion
                    —wife Elizabeth—house and lots in town of 
                        Salem
                     (the property of Margaret Hardman, deceased)—executors: Lumenious Hardman
                    and son-in-law—give youngest children named: David, 
                        Marion
                    , Margaret, Peter and Mary Evaline.
            Lindley, Martha.14 Will—November 30, 1830—probated November
                    27, 1851—to my daughter Gulielma, "the watch which was left to me by her
                    father"—mentions six children: Hezekiah Henley, John Henley, Joseph Henley,
                    Henry Henley, Mary [Henley] Braxton, Rebecca Henley —executors: sons Joseph and Henry
                    Henley—witnesses: Thomas Newlin and Owen Thompson.
            Reed, Jesse. Will—October 1, 1851—probated January 7, 1852—mentions
                    wife, Elizabeth—children: Henry, Jeremiah, George, William, Margaret.
            Scott, Eliza. Will—February 6, 1852—probated March 8, 1852—mentions
                    mother-in-law, Nancy Scotk—hildren: Emily, Martha Ann, William D., Samuel C., Margaret,
                    Hannah C. Hill—executor, Samuel R. McClain [McClane].
            McClane, William. Will—January 28, 1852—probated March 8,
                    1852—mentions wife, Caroline—daughters: Marthy Ann, Mary Elizabeth, Rachel
                    Catherine—brother Samuel R. McClane to be executor—witnesses: Levi Gifford,
                    Sr., and Abraham Wells.
            
               
                  13 See Roster of Soldiers and Patriots of the American
                            Revolution Buried in Indiana, 203.
               
                  14 Martha Henley Lindley was the second wife of Jonathan Lindley. She was
                        a widow whose maiden name was Saunders. Gulielma Lindley was the only child of this
                    marriage.
            
            
            Lewis, John M. Will—April 20, 1837—probated April 30, 1852—mentions
                    wife, Elizabeth—son, David S. Lewis, to be executor together with wife. Codicil dated
                    January 18, 1843, names Joshua Lewis co-executor with David Lewis—codicil dated March 22,
                    1852—to son Abraham J. Lewis and his heirs, the share of my real estate which would have
                    descended to son George W. Lewis and his heirs.
            Magner, Elizabeth Jane. Will—June 18, 1852—probated September 6,
                    1852—mentions sisters, Mary Ann Magner and Martha Sarah Magner—two brothers
                    who are at home with "my mother," James H. and Orin M.
                    Magner—"brother John, having left home, is not to receive any
                    portion"—witnesses: John Baker and Sarah Magner.
            
               Corrections ("Indiana Genealogy," December, 1938) :
            Line 24, p. 493. Change to read (
                  
                            Van
                         Cleefe) instead of (widow of — Cleft).
            Line 30, p. 495. Change date 2825 to 2852.
            
            First query, p. 496. Change heading from Gray Family to Byrn
                    Family.
            
         
      
   
