
      ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 107, Issue 3, pages 197-288. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2011).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:107+issue:3+year:2011&browseMode=source
    
 ----FULL TEXT----
        
          
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
          
          


               
               
                    "It's In the Air"
                    Ernie Pyle's IU Letters
                    OWEN V JOHNSON


                    Famed journalist and war correspondent Ernie Pyle was a year out of high
                         school when he came to Indiana University (IU) in September 1919. He
                         appears not yet to have been outside the states of Indiana and
                         Illinois.
                         Four years later he had become a world traveler, holding a position with an
                         up-and-coming daily newspaper in Washington, D.C., where his assignments
                         included covering a speech by the president of the United States. During
                         his student years, "[Pyle] became a part of the University
                         life-interested, loyal and friendly," as Herman B Wells, his classmate
                         and later president of the university, recalled a short time after the
                         journalist's death. "We feel that his years at Indiana prepared
                         him for his active newspaper career which reached such a climax of acclaim
                         and of tragedy."1 But as Lawrence Wheeler,
                         executive director of the IU Foundation, told Lee Miller, Pyle's first
                         biographer, "There has been a good deal of misinformation used in
                         connection with Ernie's time [at IU]."2



                    
                         Owen V. Johnson is Associate Professor at the School of Journalism
                              and Adjunct Associate Professor at the Department of History at
                              Indiana University. He teaches a yearly course at IU devoted to Pyle
                              and is working on a book of Pyle's letters.
                         Editor's Note: The author has lightly edited Pyle's letters
                              for spelling and punctuation to promote clarity.
                         1Remarks at dinner preceding world premiere of
                              the movie, The Story of G.I. Joe,
                                        Indianapolis,
                              July 6, 1945, Herman B Wells Speeches, box 6, collection C137, Indiana
                              University Archives, Bloomington,
                              Indiana.
                         2Lawrence Wheeler to Lee Miller, September 4,
                              1945, box 455, collection 213, Indiana University Archives.
                    

                    


                    Pyle entered IU as a farm boy who spoke in an easy rural Indiana dialect, and
                         emerged as someone who loved to write in a polished, but everyday style.
                         Arriving at IU as a country hick and blackballed by a fraternity his
                         freshman year, he would a year later pledge another fraternity and become a
                         well-known and much-loved "big man on campus."
                    Like many freshmen even today, Pyle acclimated slowly to the more challenging
                         academic environment in college. In fact, during his first two years he
                         garnered mostly Bs and Cs, with an English class and a journalism class
                         drawing his best grades. In his junior and senior years he received all Bs
                         and As, an impressive accomplishment given the multiplicity of his campus
                              activities.3
                    Pyle's surviving correspondence with his family back home in Dana offers
                         us some insight into his IU experiences and provides evi- dence of his
                         intellectual and social growth at IU. As would be the case in most of his
                         voluminous correspondence later in life, he saw his letters from
                                   Bloomington as a kind
                         of conversation with people. He wrote mostly about things which he knew
                         would interest his family members. None of them—father Will, mother Maria,
                         and Aunt Mary—had gone past eighth grade.4 In the dozen
                         surviving letters we see almost nothing about the intellectual climate of
                         the campus and only passing references to his classes, factors that may
                         have been very influential in his life. All of Pyle's letters to his
                         family are signed Ernest, which is what he was always called by family
                              members.5
                    This article introduces and reproduces the surviving Pyle letters, looks at
                         Indiana University in the early 1920s, and considers Pyle's time there
                         in an effort to understand how his Bloomington days contributed to his
                         development as a reporter and writer.6 Also included
                         are one letter 
                              3The author has been provided access to
                                   Pyle's transcript by the registrar, but, in accordance with
                                   current privacy law, with the proviso that specific grades for
                                   specific courses cannot be indicated. Student transcripts, Office
                                   of the Registrar, Indiana University (copy in possession of the
                                   author).
                              4Pyle wrote sympathetic portraits of all
                                   three in September 1935. See David Nichols, ed., Ernie's America: The Best of Ernie Pyle's 1930s
                                        Travel Dispatches (New York, 1989), 12-17.
                              5Pyle did not date many of his letters.
                                   Based on postmarks and/or context, the author has added dates to
                                   many letters. These dates will appear in square brackets. The
                                   first letter reproduced here is in the IU Archives. The other
                                   remaining letters from these years are in the collection of the
                                   Indiana State Museum and Historic Sites and in the Lilly Library
                                   at Indiana University.
                              6Pyle's life at IU is summarized by
                                   Ruth P Albright, "Ernie Pyle at Indiana University,"
                                        Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History
                                   12 (Spring 2000), 4-13. Pyle probably wrote his parents weekly.
                                   It is impossible to determine how often he wrote his aunt, who
                                   was the recipient of several of the letters that survive and are
                                   included here.
                         
                         
                         
                              Indiana University campus, c. early 1920s. When Pyle attended IU,
                                   only fifteen buildings stood on campus, but the school stood at
                                   the brink of a period of rapid growth.
                              Courtesy Indiana University Archives (71-1202)
                          from his summer with the navy reserves after his sophomore year,
                         and another sent from Asia at the end of his junior year.
                    John Stempel, Pyle's classmate who later served for three decades as
                         chair of the Department of Journalism, thought Pyle's IU days were
                         important. "I have often pointed out that Ernie exemplifies the fact
                         that we frequently can predict a youngster's future from his college
                         record, not so much in terms of what he will do specifically but in terms
                         of the kind of job he will do," he wrote thirty years later.7
                    Pyle's first contact with IU was a letter of inquiry, written more than
                         a year after he was graduated from Helt Township High School and shortly
                         after his return from a brief volunteer stint in the Navy. The university
                         to which Pyle was requesting admission comprised only fifteen buildings,
                         but it was on the threshold of significant change. "Indiana 
                              7John E. Stempel to Mrs. Harry L. Potter,
                                   December 12, 1950, student files, School of Journalism, Indiana
                                   University.
                         
                          University had never rated very high
                         academically among the Big Ten universities of the upper Midwest,"
                         historian Howard H. Peckham writes. "It seemed parochial in that,
                         until after World War I, it was full of native students and native
                              faculty."8 That had begun to change with the
                         arrival of World War I veterans who had seen more of the world than their
                         cohorts of earlier years. The university hired new faculty members as
                         enrollment surged above 2,300 by 1919. With rooming houses, fraternities,
                         and sororities providing the chief source of local housing, IU faced a
                         challenge accommodating its new students.
                    Pyle's two letters from his freshman year (1919-20) show that he still
                         belonged to the country, both in speech and interests. He was blackballed
                         that year by the Kappa Sigma fraternity, perhaps because of his country
                         roots. By the end of the first semester of his sophomore year, however,
                         Pyle had pledged Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity and moved into the
                         fraternity house. Fraternity life provided him an entree to such campus
                         social rituals as dating and "boress" sessions. As Wells wrote in
                         his memoirs, At night with studies completed, "boress"
                              sessions, the rap sessions of today, formed around the den fireplace
                              at the fraternity house, at the Book Nook, or elsewhere, frequently
                              running until the small hours of the morning. On the spur of the
                              moment a safari was launched: a trip to Indianapolis, to a home-brew
                              speakeasy cabin on the banks of White River beyond Bedford, or even to
                                        Chicago for a weekend
                              to listen to great jazz in the South side night spots. Football
                              weekends were regularly observed, ostensibly to back the team whether
                              the game was played at home or away, and the score little altered the
                              ritual of the occasion.9 Pyle's letters at the time give no
                         hint of such boress sessions. Did he believe his family would not be
                         interested? Did he not participate in them? We do not know, but it is hard
                         to believe that as an active young man on campus he did not have some
                         association with them.10 Pyle had, 
                              8Howard H. Peckham, Indiana: A
                                   History (Urbana, Ill., 2003), 107.
                              9Herman B Wells, Being
                                   Lucky (Bloomington,
                                   Ind., 1980), 41-42.
                              10Many years later, Pyle would write to his
                                   friend Stempel that he looked forward to "our bull session,
                                   which I'd enjoy immensely." Ernie Pyle to John Stempel,
                                   September 4, 1940, accn. 1216, Ernie Pyle Originals, D-Day
                                   Folder, Indiana University Archives.
                         
                          among other things, joined the staff
                         of the student newspaper, where he was assigned the bookstore beat, which
                         covered many campus activities.11 His letters make
                         clear that his social life was developing, even as he strived to keep up
                         with hometown news. For such an involved student, the "glittering,
                         swirling atmosphere of ideas" that Wells found in his "nightly
                         boresses" would seem likely to have offered a powerful attraction.12
                    One letter dated May 22, 1921, written near the end of his sophomore year,
                         provides interesting evidence of Pyle's intellectual and social growth
                         at IU. It also offers the first hint of his desire to travel. But for the
                         bulk of our evidence of Pyle's college days, we turn to the letters
                         written in his junior year, when his grades improved and he took on
                         leadership positions in campus activities. Pyle had served as city editor
                         of the Daily Student during the fall semester of 1921.
                         "It seems to me that Ernie had misgivings about his ability or
                         capacity to be City Editor," Daily Student editor Wilbur Cogshall
                         remembered, "but he was talked into it and did a good job."13 In that role he wrote his first known bylined
                         article, which ironically was published on the front page of the Purdue Exponent. "Football is King in
                         Bloomington
                         today," Pyle wrote. "Everything else gave way last night at the
                         annual Homecoming Pow-wow, while the gridiron sport ascended the throne of
                         popular favor which will not be relinquished until Saturday night."14
                    The Daily Student staff that year included some of the most
                         distinguished names in the newspaper's history: Nelson Poynter, who
                         later bought and shepherded the St. Petersburg Times to
                         national fame and established the Congressional Quarterly
                         and the Poynter Center for Media Studies; Cogshall, who later edited the
                              Louisville Courier-Journal; and Stempel, who served
                         as the chair of IU's journalism department from 1938 to 1968. In
                         addition to Wells, other outstanding IU students at the time included
                         composer Hoagy Carmichael and Charles Halleck, later the minority leader of
                         the U.S. House of Representatives.




                    
                         11"Ernie Pyle's Death Remembered: War
                              Reporter I.U. Student," Indiana Daily Student,
                              April 18, 1962, p. 1.
                         12Wells, Being Lucky,
                              42.
                         13Wilbur Cogshall to Lee Miller, October 2, 1945,
                              accn. 68.993.015.1360.1 & 2, collection of the Indiana State
                              Museum and Historic Sites, Indianapolis.
                         14Ernest T. Pyle, "Indiana Completes Plans
                              for Purdue Rooters' Reception," Purdue
                                   Exponent, November 19, 1921, p. 1.
                    


                    


                    An important clue to Pyle's development appears in his reference to a
                         "geology" class he was taking—in fact a geography class taught by
                         Professor Stephen S. Visher. Pyle clearly was much taken with Visher's
                         wide travel experience and with the enthusiasm he conveyed in talking about
                         his travels during class. One day after class Visher gave Pyle one of his
                         articles—we cannot know which one, because Visher published six articles in
                         1921 and sixteen in 1922 (in addition to co-authoring a book).
                         Visher's enthusiasm for travel is evident in an article he wrote for
                         IU's Alumni Quarterly describing his journey to
                         Hawaii, Fiji, Australia, the
                         Philippines, China, and
                         Japan.15 Only four weeks after its publication, Pyle left
                         Bloomington
                         to accompany the IU baseball team on its trip to Japan, and one could
                         easily conclude that Visher provided him with his inspiration to make that
                              trip.16
                     A short time before his departure, Pyle served on the all-campus committee
                         that spearheaded a memorial campaign to honor those who fought and died in
                         World War I through the construction of a Memorial Stadium and Memorial
                         Hall (both completed in 1925), and a Memorial Union (finished in 1932). An
                         address by Indiana governor Warren T. McCray helped
                         draw a record crowd to the kickoff rally.17 The
                         commitment of Pyle and the Daily Student to the
                         successful $1.5 million fund drive exemplified students' devotion to
                         the public good. "We shared unquestioning pride in our university and
                         a firm faith in its future," Wells wrote. "Student publications
                         reflected this loyal stance, praising student activities when possible and,
                         when not, revealing improvements in the future."18





                    
                         15Stephen S. Visher, "Yale-Indiana
                              Trans-Pacific Expedition," Indiana University Alumni
                                   Quarterly 9 (April 1922), 148-55. Visher was a prolific
                              scholar. His publications about Indiana led to his being known as
                              "Mr. Geography" of Indiana. He served a term as president of
                              the Indiana Academy of Science, and was vice-president of the
                              Association of American Geographers. John Kerr Rose, "Stephen
                              Sargent Visher: 1887-1967," Annals of the
                                   Association of American Geographers 61 (June 1971),
                              394-406.
                         16"Crimson Baseball Journey to Japan Goes
                              to Faculty," Indiana Daily Student, February
                              24, 1922, pp. 1, 4. Further evidence in support of this theory is that
                              IU department heads discussed final arrangements for the
                              Japan trip
                              the day Pyle wrote this letter.
                         17"Vision of New Indiana Sways
                              Hundreds," Indiana Daily Student, March 7,
                              1922, Memorial Extra, pp. 1, 4.
                         18Wells, Being Lucky, 41. Pyle wrote a two-part
                              series on Wells for Scripps-Howard. See his "Hoosier
                              Vagabond" columns in the Indianapolis Times,
                              August 30, 1940, p. 17; and August 31, 1940, p. 7.
                    


                    



                    Late Friday night, March 24, 1922, Pyle and three fraternity brothers left
                                   Bloomington by train
                         for the first leg of their journey to Japan, planning to accompany the IU
                         baseball team for its series of games against Waseda University.19 Pyle wrote several letters to his family on that
                         trip, one of which is included here because it provides an early example of
                         his descriptive travel observations.
                    No letters survive from Pyle's final full semester at IU (September
                         1922-January 1923), when he enrolled in seven classes totaling seventeen
                         hours of credit. Perhaps the most interesting to us is Philosophy 43a,
                         "Life Views of Great Men of Letters," taught by a team of
                         prominent professors-including IU president William Lowe Bryan, as well as
                         the chairs of the departments of Fine Arts, Romance Languages, Government,
                         English, Latin, German, and Economics and Sociology. It seems likely that
                         the course was designed for campus leaders such as Pyle, who in the same
                         semester would earn a football letter (for his service as student manager)
                         and would garner the Daily Student's distinction as "the most
                         versatile man on campus."20
                    Pyle left IU a semester short of graduation to take a job with the
                                   LaPorte,
                                   Indiana, Herald. As the story is
                         traditionally told, he wanted to distance himself from a shattered romance
                         with fellow student Harriett Davidson.21 Alumni
                         secretary George E "Dixie" Heighway, in a 1944 letter, offered an
                         alternative explanation: "He left school after some sort of row with
                         the Journalism Department... I am unable to find out just what this was all
                         about but, probably the less said about it the better anyway."22 On several occasions Pyle talked about coming 
                              19"Two Students To Work Way To Japan
                                   With Team," Indiana Daily Student, March
                                   23, 1922, pp. 1, 4.
                              20Bob Hammel and Kit Klingelhoffer, Glory of Old IU: 100 Years of Indiana
                                        Athletics (Champaign,
                                   Ill., 1999), 48. The manager
                                   filled the functions of both equipment manager and publicist.
                                   "Peddler Pyle Rivals Bazaars for Bargains," Indiana Daily Student, December 20, 1922, p.
                                   3.
                              21In this version, Pyle left IU in January
                                   1923 because Davidson, with whom he had been in love, had
                                   returned his pin. In fact, the pin did not come back until he had
                                   already left the university. Davidson received a degree in
                                   psychology with highest distinction and married Dr. Frank Martin
                                   of Bedford,
                                   Indiana, in 1924. She died in 1994. James Tobin, Ernie Pyle's War: America's Eyewitness to World
                                        War II (New York, 1997), 13-14; "Harriett D.
                                   Martin," Bedford Times-Mail, January 7,
                                   1994, p. A2.
                              22Owen V. Johnson, "Remembering Ernie
                                   Pyles IU Ties," online at http://journalism.
                                   indiana.edu/about-us/history/about-ernie-pyle/remembering-ernie-pyles-ties-to-iu/.
                         
                         
                         
                              Ernie Pyle and Harriett Davidson as they appeared in their 1923
                                   yearbook pictures. Although the couple dated regularly at IU,
                                   they went their separate ways after Pyle left the university
                                   before graduating.
                              1923 Arbutus, courtesy Indiana University
                                   Archives
                         
                          back in the spring 1924 semester to
                         finish his degree.23 He seems to have indicated an
                         interest in taking over as adviser for the Daily Student.24
                    In the end, Pyle's surviving IU letters only hint at his experience and
                         development in Bloomington. He evidently judged that much of what happened
                         there would not interest his family. Almost never did he comment on the
                         content of his courses. He wrote almost nothing about his many travels with
                         athletic teams, perhaps not wanting to worry the folks at home. On the
                         other hand, he was confident that they would appreciate his status as a big
                         man on campus, participating actively in the Greek system, supporting the
                         memorial fund drive, and working at the student newspaper. The way in which
                         Pyle continued to respond to and talk about people and events in Dana
                         suggests that when he sat down to write he had a picture in his mind of his
                         parents or aunt sitting around the kitchen table. It is an image that may
                         have served him well when he became a columnist and war correspondent. The
                         letters also show his gradually improving ability to tell a story, although
                         they were not the single-subject accounts that his columns would be.
                         Instead the letters took shape as vignettes in which Pyle played a
                         role.
                    Perhaps Pyle himself did not consciously think about how his maturation at IU
                         changed both him and his writing. He did recognize when the opportunity
                         came to take a job and leave IU, and he did not hesitate. He was confident
                         in his ability to survive in the outside world.
                    Pyle's college letters betray no sense of unhappiness with his
                                   Bloomington
                         experience. This makes his May 21, 1937, column about his first return to
                                   Bloomington something
                         of a mystery. It has often been read as reflecting the heartbreak that
                         supposedly came from the failure of his romance. In fact, a closer reading
                         of that column suggests that Pyle knew that his time in
                         Bloomington was
                         special, but that it 
                              23"Pyle Visits Panama, To Re-Enter
                                   University," Indiana Alumnus 3, no. 12
                                   (January 5, 1924), 3. He wrote Dean Clarence E. "Pat"
                                   Edmondson in spring 1924 that he decided not to come back because
                                   the managing editor of the Washington Daily
                                        News wanted him back on the paper and "I was a
                                   little afraid to come back with Harriett still in school."
                                   Pyle to Edmondson, undated, box LMC 2676, Pyle Mss. VI, Lilly
                                   Library, Bloomington,
                                   Indiana.
                              24Norman J. Radder [journalism professor] to
                                   John Stempel, April 18, 1924C142.1, Correspondence: Radder,
                                   Norman J., 1923-1938, Indiana University School of Journalism
                                   Records, collection C142.1, Indiana University Archives.
                         
                          could never be recaptured. "I
                         didn't want to see all the changes," he wrote.25
                    IU opened to the world while Pyle was a student there. Stimulated by some of
                         the best minds at the university, Pyle rode his own wave out into the world
                         and never looked back.




                    
                         Dana, Ind., July 31st - 1919
                              Dear Sir: -
                         I desire to enter Indiana University this fall, and am writing for
                              information. I graduated from Helt Township High School
                              (Vermillion
                              Co.) in 1918. Must I have a certificate filled out by the High School
                              Supt.?
                         The Supt. at the time of my graduation is gone and I don't know
                              where he is.26 I desire to take the L. A. and S.
                                   course.27 Please send me some circulars.
                         Yours Respectfully
                              Ernest T. Pyle28
                    



                    
                         Bloomington,
                              Ind.
                                                   522 E. Kirkwood Ave.29
                                   2 P.M. [mailed September 21, 1919]
                              Dear Auntie:-
                         I got a letter from the folks yesterday, but will write you and you can
                              tell them you heard from me. It has been raining here all day, 
                                   25"A Sentimental Renunciation
                                        Violated by Chance," Nichols, Ernie's America, 85-88. This view is supported by
                                        Pyle's comments in a 1940 letter to John Stempel in
                                        which he recounts a dinner with Herman B Wells: "I told
                                        [Wells] I had kind of a complex about not wanting to come
                                        back to Bloomington and seeing how
                                        everything had changed." Pyle to Stempel, August 3,
                                        1940, accn. 1216, Ernie Pyle Originals, D-Day Folder,
                                        Indiana University Archives.
                                   26The superintendent was Ralph C.
                                        Shields, a 1913 graduate of Indiana State University, where
                                        he had served as editor of the college yearbook.
                                   27Literature, Arts, and Science.
                                   28Pyle to Indiana University, July 31,
                                        1919, accn. 6056, Indiana University Archives.
                                   29This house stood on the south side of
                                        the block just west of today's Sample Gates.
                              
                              
                              
                                   "Aunt Mary" Bales, Ernie Pyle, and his father,
                                        William Pyle, c. early 1940s. Frank M. Hohenberger
                                        Photograph Collection, 5 x 7 copies, 1946, item 20, courtesy
                                        Lilly Library, Indiana University, Bloomington
                               started some time last night. It rained about all day Thurs.
                              too. They have surely had rain down here all summer, for everything is
                              just as green and nice. The pastures are good, and the corn
                              hasn't begun to get brown. Bloomington is a nice place although it
                              isn't as big nor as modern as Champaign.30 The
                              University is a nice place, not out-of-date like I had always heard. I
                              have a room about a hundred feet from the campus. My roommate is a
                              fellow from Tipton, Ind.31 Aki is in the
                              same house and has been sleeping in our room the last three or four
                                   
                                   30Pyle knew Champaign from having
                                        done his Navy basic training there in 1918.
                                   31We know almost nothing about
                                        Pyle's roommates throughout his time at IU. Alexander
                                        Louis Zivich, who was a year behind Pyle, claims to have
                                        been his roommate. "Class Notes," Indiana Alumni Magazine 70, no. 4
                                        (January/February 2008), 62.
                              
                               nights.32 One
                              of the kids in his room has been sick and he didn't want to sleep
                              with him. He has been in France eighteen months
                              and has been gassed, and his lungs are weak. The doctor pronounced it
                              pneaumonia [sic] this morning. I helped the doctor put some bandages
                              on him [a] while ago. They are going to take him to the hospital
                              tomorrow. The kid that sleeps with me just now got up.33 They had a big Freshman Stag last night, but Aki advised
                              me to stay at home, and I guess it's a good thing I did. This kid
                              went to a dance, and as he was coming home the Sophomores caught him
                              and clipped his hair. He is a terrible looking thing. I went and got a
                              watermelon about dark and Aki and I ate it in our room last night. Has
                              papa got your fender straightened up yet? There is [sic] a lot of big
                              fine machines down here. I have all my classes in the morning. I am
                              taking French, I like it fine.34 Mamma said Rema
                              was coming home in October. Indiana plays Wabash College in football
                              here next Saturday.35 I may get to see Carl and
                              Harold Bales if they come down.36 Well, I've
                              wrote about all I can think of, so I will quit for this time.
                         Ernest37

                    


                    
                         522 East Kirkwood Ave.
                                                    Bloomington,
                                                         Indiana
                                   Monday Morning [January 26, 1920]
                              Dear Auntie:-
                         I received your good letter several days ago, but have never got started
                              to writing since. We are having final Examinations now, and I 
                                   32Aki was Staats Aikman Foncannon, a
                                        member of Pyle's high school graduating class, who
                                        lived on a farm adjacent to the Pyle farm. After receiving
                                        his law degree from IU in 1923, he practiced law with his
                                        brother in Bicknell,
                                                  Indiana, for
                                        three years, then set up his own practice in
                                                  Vincennes,
                                                  Indiana. Later
                                        he joined the legal department of Allis Chalmers Tractor
                                        Company, later moving into sales. He retired in the early
                                        1960s and moved to Pennsylvania, where he died in 1975.
                                        Horace A. Foncannon Jr. [Aki's nephew] to author,
                                        February 1, 2011.
                                   33It was not uncommon at the
                                        time—especially in rooming houses—for men to sleep two to a
                                        bed.
                                   34Pyle's other classes included
                                        Freshman Composition, Industrial Society (taught by
                                        Professor J.B. Phillips), and Physical Geography (taught by
                                        Visher, then a newly hired assistant professor).
                                   35Indiana beat Wabash, 20-7, in the
                                        season opener. The Hoosiers finished the season with a 3-4
                                        record.
                                   36Carl was probably Carl Crane, a
                                        friend from Dana, who worked on the railroad. Harry Bales
                                        owned a nearby farm.
                                   37Pyle to Mary Bales, n.d., accn.
                                        68.980.002.0019a-c, collection of the Indiana State Museum
                                        and Historic Sites.
                              
                               don't have any more till
                              Wednesday, so I have all day today and tomorrow to study and answer my
                              letters in. It has been awfully slick here for the last week. Last
                              Friday morning a person could hardly walk. Several fell and hurt
                              themselves pretty badly. Yesterday the sun came out and melted almost
                              all the ice, but I stepped on a little patch this morning, and fell
                              for the first time.
                         I got a letter from Beany Miller Saturday saying that he was coming down
                              next Saturday, so I guess I will not leave here between semesters.38 We have from Thursday till Monday, with
                              nothing to do.
                         [The] Purdue basketball team played here Friday night and beat us 17 to
                              9. Spencer Groves and Dwight Thompson were down and they came up to my
                              room a while after the game. Paul Sturm didn't come.39
                         To[o] bad about Alvin getting hurt. I suppose you are all three
                              butchering now. It[']s been a long time since I saw anyone
                              butcher.
                         How is Uncle Jim now [?]40 I'm glad too, that
                              we went when we did, for he probably won't last till I get home
                              again. Mama said they had sent for Ada.
                         It's too bad Thad don't get away from Dana, for his health and
                              for his own good too.41 He ought to go West and
                              stay a year or two. I guess he is mad at me, I haven't heard from
                              him since November. I guess he is going to get a raise in his
                              [military] pension, so he could go all over the west and not have to
                              work any either.
                         Glad your hogs did so well. That will help out a right smart on your
                              machine. Wish Will would sell his mules and get a Ford. If I was
                              Beatrice, I would make him. I'll bet Jack is cute. Can he talk
                              any yet?
                         I had my pictures taken the other day, and am sending you one. Tell Mama
                              I intended to send theirs in the letter last night but forgot it, so
                              will send it the next time.



                         
                              38Presumably a friend from
                                   Dana.
                              39Paul B. Sturm was a friend from
                                   Dana (Dana
                                   High School Class of 1919) who studied engineering at Purdue.
                                   His father, Doctor John Sturm, who held a doctor of veterinary
                                   medicine degree from Purdue, owned the land south of the farm on
                                   which Pyle grew up. The younger Sturm served three terms
                                   (1933-39) as a Democrat in the Indiana General Assembly and was a
                                   member of the Purdue Board of Trustees for eight years. Justin E.
                                   Walsh, ed., Biographical Directory of the Indiana
                                   General Assembly, vol. 2, 1900-1984
                                   (Indianapolis,
                                   Ind., 1984), 405.
                              40Neither Pyle's father or mother had a
                                   brother named Jim.
                              41Thad K. Hooker was Pyles best friend in
                                   high school. He left school a year in 1917 to join the Army,
                                   although he was included in Pyles graduating class in 1918. Pyle
                                   recalled their friendship in his column, dated March 2, 1936,
                                   "Nothing Left to Giggle About," Nichols, Ernie's
                                   America, 19-21.
                         


                         




                         The sun is shining and the birds are singing this morning like it might
                              be spring coming on. I hope it is. I haven't been bothered with
                              the cold this winter though like I generally have.
                         Well, I better quit and get to studying for my examinations. Write
                              soon.
                         Ernest.42
                    


                    
                         Q.A.E. House.
                                   Thurs. Noon [December 1920]
                              Dear Auntie,
                         Received your letter this morning and will answer before I lay it away
                              and forget it. Also got one from Thad. He is still going to school and
                              is taking Spanish. I guess he likes it fine down at El Paso. I
                              don't know whether he is going to stay there after he finishes
                              school or not.
                         It was too bad about Frank Randolph getting killed. He always was rather
                              reckless anyway. He turned their Ford over the first week they had it.
                              I suppose you did hear a lot about the boys last week-end. Mary Alice
                              and Catherine each wrote me a letter, and that was all they talked
                              about. They will get over that foolishness when they get a little
                              older. Mary Alice ought to get a pretty nice fellow, she's pretty
                              and seems to have a right smart of sense.
                         I guess papa is having a high time at Los
                                   Angeles. He wrote to me that he
                              didn't know whether he would be back by Christmas or not. I hope
                              he is for Mama's sake. Too bad Bobby is sick. Hope there[']s
                              nothing serious the matter with him. I guess Fred Bales is the only
                              one of the boys in school as Carl is working in Indianapolis. I met a girl at our
                              dance the other night that used to go with Carl. She lives at
                                        Indianapolis. Too
                              bad the boys can[']t come over Christmas.
                         I suppose mama told you about our dance Saturday night. We had a
                              wonderful time and everybody was carried away with the music. I am
                              invited to two sorority dances this weekend. Have never seen
                              Harold's girl since that day we met her here.
                         It is trying to rain this morning. It is lots warmer and I expect it
                              will rain and then start to snowing or something. I dread to see the
                              bad 
                                   42Pyle to Bales, n.d., accn.
                                        68.980.002.0020a-c, collection of the Indiana State Museum
                                        and Historic Sites.
                              
                              
                              
                                   Mary Bales and William Pyle standing before a portrait of
                                        Ernie Pyle, presumably after his death on the island of Ie
                                        Shima in the Pacific in April 1945.
                                   Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University,
                                        Bloomington
                               weather come. Well, I must close for this time. Will be home
                              two weeks from tomorrow.
                         Ernest.43
                    



                    
                         Sun[da]y Afternoon [May 22, 1921]44
                              Dear Auntie:-
                         I am over at the Student office as usual this afternoon and am taking
                              advantage of the presence of the typewriters and writing a few 
                                   43Pyle to Bales, n.d., accn.
                                        68.980.002.0021, collection of the Indiana State Museum and
                                        Historic Sites.
                                   44The letter is written on Indiana Daily Student letterhead.
                              
                               letters.45 I
                              am writing to the folks, Thad and a buddy of mine in
                              Tennessee.
                         I just now heard that Dorothy Lauer broke out with the scarlet fever
                              this morning and the Tri-Delts are all quar[a]ntined.46 I had a date over at their house last night but
                              don[']t suppose there is any danger of me getting anything as I
                              didn[']t talk to Dorothy. If she really has got the s[c]arlet
                              fever as they think she has, the Tri Delts will all be in quar[a]ntine
                              until after school is out.
                         I went to church again this morning and almost melted.47 This is the hottest day we have had I think. This hot
                              weather reminds me of some of the terrible hot weather I went thru
                              with last summer. I hate to work a day like this but always have to
                              work on Wednesday night and Sunday afternoons. I won[']t lose
                              anything by it tho I don[']t suppose.
                         I got your letter the other day with the $2 bill in it and I sur[e]
                              appreciated it. Thanks ever so much. Anything like that sure comes in
                              handy now too. It has taken more money for me to go thru school this
                              year than last but I believe it has been worth it.48 I know I wouldn[']t take $400 for the experiences I
                              have had and the associations I have made this winter.
                         "Shorty" is one of the catchers on the ball team and they went
                              to Iowa last Thursday to play a double
                                   header.49 They won both games and 
                                   45Pyle joined the staff of the student
                                        newspaper during the second semester of his sophomore year,
                                        after completing a first semester journalism course,
                                        "Forms and Kinds of Newspaper Stories," with
                                        Professor Norman Radder. Although today the paper is known
                                        as the IDS, during Pyle's time it was
                                        known as The Student, or The
                                             Daily Student.
                                   46Dorothy Lauer was a pre-med student
                                        from Dana (member
                                        of the Dana High School Class of 1920). Her older sister
                                        (Mary) Ruth was also a member of Delta Delta Delta and a
                                        member of the staff of the Indiana Daily
                                             Student. Pyle's girlfriend Harriett was a
                                        fellow Tri-Delt. Ruth might have had some influence on Pyle
                                        becoming interested in the newspaper. She was women's
                                        editor during the 1919-20 school year and the following
                                        year served on the board of editors of the Arbutus yearbook.
                                   47Having attended a Methodist church in
                                                  Bono, he most likely attended
                                        the First United Methodist Church in Bloomington, located not
                                        far from what was then fraternity row.
                                   48This appears to refer to the
                                        additional social obligations necessitated by being a member
                                        of a fraternity.
                                   49Walter B. Lang, known as
                                        "Shorty," was a friend from Dana (1914 Dana High
                                        School graduate) who volunteered for the French ambulance
                                        service during World War I. Lee G. Miller, The
                                        Story of Ernie Pyle (New York, 1950), 14. Miller
                                        reports (p. 15) that it was Lang who got Pyle a bid to join
                                        the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. Not only did Lang play
                                        on the baseball team, he was a good enough golfer to win the
                                        1920 IU student summer match-play tournament. American Golfer 23 (September 1920), 28. It is
                                        possible that his friendship with Lang helped Pyle develop
                                        his golfing abilities.
                              
                               are coming back as far as
                              Chicago
                              today and watch the Chicago Cubs play. I wish I was a good ball player
                              so [I] could get to make some of those trips. They went all thru the
                              south this spring on their training trips, and went to
                              Ohio the other
                              day and got to go all thru the state penitentiary.
                         Two weeks from today I will be on my way home. We have classes all this
                              week and examinations the next week. Next Monday is Memorial Day and
                              we don[']t have any classes on the following Tuesday either so I
                              won[']t have much to do the last week of school. Our dance is the
                              night before I come home. My buddy from Chicago won[']t be able to
                              come as they are covered up with work in the offices up there. There
                              are lots of dances now that the warm weather has come. I am going to
                              two sorority dances this week and one next week end besides ours.
                         The campus is as pretty as can be now. Everything is in bloom. I wish
                              you and the folks could get some one to do the chores for you for one
                              even[in]g and drive down on Saturday June 4th, and then we could drive
                              back home the next day. I expect you will all be too busy or
                              won[']t want to leave your chickens. I know that it is pretty
                              hard to get away this time of the year.
                         I am glad that the sore on your head didn[']t prove to be a cancer.
                              How is it getting by this time[?] Well I must close and get to
                              work.
                         Goodbye,
                              Ernest.50
                    


                    
                         Ashland,
                              Wisconsin
                                   Tuesday Noon [Summer 1921]
                              Dear Folks,
                         I will try and write you a line while I have a little time. We are lying
                              in the harbor at Ashland,
                              Wis, on Lake Superior. About half of the
                              crew went ashore on liberty this morning, but I didn't get to go
                              because I have to go to work at 1 o'clock & work till 1
                              o'clock tomorrow. Seems like I always have the toughest luck. The
                              citizens had autos to take them riding & had a big celebration for
                              them. Maybe I will be lucky enough to get off in
                              Duluth, though.


                         
                              50Pyle to Bales, n.d., box LMC 1879,
                                   1884-1925, Pyle Mss. II, Lilly Library.
                         


                         



                         It is awfully cold up here, have to wear sweaters & pea-coats. I
                              don't have to be on deck in the cold tho, because it is warm in
                              the galley where I work, & when I am off duty I loaf below. I go
                              to work at 1 p.m., work till 9:30 that night, get up at 3:30 and work
                              till 1 the next day without a stop, then I have 24 hrs. with nothing
                              to do.
                         They put me to firing the next day after we left Chi. I fired 2 days and
                              accidentally dropped a slice bar on my foot & almost broke it, so
                              I wasn't able to fire any more, & they put me on this galley
                              job. Talk about this being a vacation, I will need one when I get
                              out.
                         Was in Canada Sunday morning. We went thru the locks at Sue Saint Marie
                              - I went on the Canadian shore to help with the lines. I wrote you a
                              card Sat. thinking we would dock at Mackinack, but we only stopped in
                              the harbor about a half hour, & they didn't take mail off, so
                              I suppose it was mailed at the Sue the next morning.
                         This kid that was at Champaign with me and I hang together as much as
                              possible as we are about the only two of the same type on the ship.
                              Most of the rest are rough-necks, typical sailors. Don't know
                              when I will be home but I expect about a week from Sunday. We will get
                              to Duluth about Thursday, & not
                              start back till about Sat. Then we will get in Chicago about Friday
                              & they will probably hold us a day or two to clean up the
                              ship.
                         I am getting plenty of good stuff to eat, that's one consolation.
                              We met four other battleships at the Sue, and they are still with us,
                              sailing in fleet formation. We had an awful storm Sunday night,
                              lightning, wind & rain. My razor was stolen last night, I'm
                              glad I didn't bring my watch. I will have to write Mr. Davis that
                              it is impossible to write anything while on board this wagon, but will
                              try & write him a little when I get home. Maybe you had better
                              call him then. If I don't find time to drop him a line he
                              won't be looking for it.
                         They called for painters the other day and I painted the hammock
                              nettings, the booms & part of the stacks. It is time for me to go
                              to work, so I must close. Tell Auntie hello. How is the painting
                              coming, about to run out of anything to do?
                         Ernest51

                    
                    
                         51Pyle to William and Maria Pyle, n.d., box LMC
                              1879, 1884-1925, Pyle Mss. II, Lilly Library.
                    


                    



                    
                         Q.A.E. House.
                                   Friday Night [January 6, 1922]52
                              Dear Auntie,
                         It is raining tonight so I am reading magazines and writing a few
                              letters. I have gotten so I like to write letters when I have time. It
                              has been very warm all week and began raining last night, so I presume
                              it will turn good and cold about tomorrow. My cold is almost well,
                              altho' I am a little hoarse at times.
                         Things have been very dull this week, as it is hard for everyone to get
                              settled down to studying again after vacation days. We have just two
                              more weeks until final examinations, then the semester will be over.
                              It ends Jan. 29th I believe, on Friday. The second semester starts on
                              Monday. I haven't been able to get much news for the
                              "[Indiana Daily] Student" this week as campus activities
                              have not yet gotten back into full swing. From now on tho' I
                              expect news will be more abundant, I am working in my spare time on a
                              bulletin which the fraternity is putting out the first of Feb.
                         I suppose you would like to hear a little about my trip, so I will tell
                              you about it. I went to Clinton Friday afternoon with Paul and his
                              girl, and had to wait there until 2 o'clock the next morning. It
                              was an awfully long wait, but finally passed away. I slept all the
                              way from there to Chicago, and got into Englewood at 7 o'clock.
                              On the way to Jack's house I passed University Ave. on 55th St.
                              and saw Mary and Anna's house, but didn't go see them. I got
                              to Jack's just as he was getting up and he had to work, so I went
                              to bed and slept till noon. In the afternoon his two sisters and I
                              went to a picture show downtown, and after that I went to Jack's
                              office and the girls went on home.
                         In the evening, Jack and I went to a musical show - "Cinderella on
                              Broadway" - which was very good. I called Sullivan up Sunday noon
                              - tried to get him Sat. and couldn't - and learned that his wife
                              had taken pneaumonia [sic] fever and that they had gone home. Jack and
                              I took a walk Sunday afternoon and in the evening we stayed at home
                              and visited with his folks and looked at some pictures he had. 




                         
                              52Editor's Note: "Probably Jan.
                                   10, 1921" is handwritten in pencil near the top of the
                                   letter. It is not Pyle's handwriting, but is probably the
                                   hand of a staff member who worked on the letters many years ago.
                                   The postmark on the envelope looks to be January 9, 1921, but the
                                   1 in 21 is faded. Based on his research, the author has set the
                                   year at 1922.
                         


                         



                         His father and mother are very nice, as well as his sisters. They are
                              very refined and cultured people, but not the least bit
                              "stuck-up." His sisters, I would judge are about thirty
                              years old. One of them works in a bank and the other stays at home.
                              They are only about 4 blocks from Aunt Nancy's house.
                         I left Chicago at 8:30 Monday morning, and got in here about 4 in the
                              evening. Our train killed a woman just north of here. She was a deaf
                              woman walking along the track and didn't hear the train coming. I
                              had a very pleasant trip and do not regret having gone. I think Jack
                              will spend a week-end with me here in the spring.
                         I think I will make all my work this semester, altho' there's
                              one short course in Economics I'm a little doubtful of. However
                              I'm carrying enough extra work tho', that it doesn't
                              matter if I should drop a little.
                         I wonder if papa is able to be out all the time now. He said his cold
                              didn't seem to improve much. Well, I must close as it is getting
                              late. Tell Uncle George hello.
                         Ernest.53
                    



                    
                         Sunday P.M. [January 22, 1922]54 Dear Folks:-
                         I finished my notebooks this morning, and I am pretty proud of them.55 I am confident I will get "A" on
                              both of them. When my professors excused me from final exams, they all
                              said my work had been very satisfactory. This week will be the hardest
                              that I have had this year. Twelve of us have been picked to do the
                              work of the regular staff of fifty, which means that we will have to
                              work continuously from 11 in the morning until 1 o'clock at
                                   night.56
                         I am mighty proud of my muffler, thanks ever so much for it. The boys
                              all think it is pretty fine. The new hats are in and I will go down
                              before long and get me one. I went to a dance at the Student Building
                              last 
                                   53Pyle to Bales, n.d., accn.
                                        68.980.002.0022a-c, collection of the Indiana State Museum
                                        and Historic Sites.
                                   54Letter written on Indiana Daily Student letterhead.
                                   55He is referring here to course
                                        notebooks. A few of Pyle's freshman course notebooks
                                        survive, copies of which are in the author's
                                        possession.
                                   56These select students were excused
                                        from their finals by university policy.
                              
                               night, but couldn't get a
                              pass for it. I think it is only the second dance I have had to pay for
                              this year. I ran onto some girls coasting down Indiana avenue
                              yesterday afternoon, and coasted with them for about an hour. I sleep
                              with one of the boys now, and he is just like a furnace, I never get
                              the least bit cold.
                         Buck is going to Indianapolis
                              this week-end and I think Johnny is coming home. Johnny made
                              "A" on his French exam yesterday, but I don't know
                              whether Buck got thru Spanish or not.
                         I read in The News the other night about Mr. Hopewell getting killed. It
                              is too bad. -"Tol'able David" was here but I
                              didn't get to see it as I always have to work.57 No, I have never seen "Molly 'O"
                                   either.58 I am going to learn my Masonry work
                              as soon as the semester is over with, and perhaps will take my second
                              degree sometime next month. Ruble, the Shriner, who is a Phi Psi is
                              going to teach it to me.59
                         I am feeling fine, so you needn't worry about me. Hope you are both
                              allright. Wilbur [Cogshall] just called up so I will have to go to the
                              [Indiana Daily] Student Office.
                         Ernest.60
                    



                    
                         Wednesday [January 25, 1922] 10:30
                                   a.m.
                              Dear Folks:-
                         I just now got your letter and will answer it as I have nothing to do
                              before noon. We work from noon until midnight, and then have nothing
                              to do during the forenoon. I make 8 hours A and 7 hours B out of my
                              work, which makes me feel pretty good.61
                         We don't have to work as hard to get the Student out as I thought
                              we would. We have filled the paper up easily so far, but it may be
                              harder 
                                   57Tol'able
                                        David, dir. Henry King (Inspiration Pictures, 1921),
                                        was a silent film classic starring Richard Barthelmess and
                                        Gladys Hulette.
                                   58Molly 0', dir.
                                        E Richard Jones (Mack Sennett-Mabel Normand Productions,
                                        1921), was a comedy-drama starring Albert Hackett and Eddie
                                        Gribbon.
                                   59Pyle is referring here to the
                                        Freemasons, a fraternal organization whose membership has
                                        shared moral and metaphysical ideals. The second degree is
                                        the middle one in the organization.
                                   60Pyle to William and Maria Pyle, n.d.
                                        accn. 68.980.002.0023a-b, collection of the Indiana State
                                        Museum and Historic Sites.
                                   61These are the grades he received for
                                        the fall semester, when he was taking Political Economy,
                                        Economic Geology, Practical Newspaper Work, and
                                        Editing.
                              
                              
                              
                                   Mary Bales and Maria and William C. Pyle in
                                                  Dana, Indiana, c. 1940, in
                                        the front yard of the Pyles' farm home. Maria Pyle,
                                        partially paralyzed with apoplexy, would die while Ernie
                                        Pyle was in England in the winter of 1940-1941.
                                   Courtesy of the Indiana State Museum and Historic Sites
                               Thurs. and Friday. All the other boys are worrying thru
                              examinations, while I don't have to bother a bit about them.
                         This letter will be short, because not a thing has happened since I last
                              wrote. I have a little cold, that is, my nose runs a lot, but it
                              doesn't make me feel bad and is better now. I got a letter from
                              Auntie yesterday. The organization Ruth Bourne belongs to is Phi Beta
                              Kappa, honorary educational, and isn't in The Arbutus.62 I will write again Sunday and maybe there will
                              be more to write.
                         Ernest.63
                    





                    
                         62In addition to his newspaper work, Pyle was a
                              member of the yearbook staff as a junior.
                         63Pyle to William and Maria Pyle, n.d., accn.
                              68.980.002.0024a-b, collection of the Indiana State Museum and
                              Historic Sites.
                    


                    





                    
                         S.A.E. HOUSE
                                   Wednesday evening [February 1, 1922]
                              Dear Folks:-
                         I will write y[o]u a few lines to let you know that I am all right, but
                              haven[']t much time right now to write bec[au]se I just got back
                              from the office. It is 7 o[']clock and I worked thru the dinner
                              hour because we had so much copy piled up, and I am going to see my
                              girl tonight.64 This week is the first time that I
                              haven[']t worked every week night for about three months. I have
                              been promoted to News Editor and just have to work at night every
                              other week now. I work all afternoon until about 6 o[']clock
                              usually, then next week I will have to work till about 1 o'clock
                              at night but not in the afternoon. I am going to work hard and I think
                              I [c]an be editor next year but don[']t say anything about
                              it.
                         It has been pouring down rain all day today and is still raining. We
                              started classes today and I have to carry some extra work because I
                              couldn[']t get any 2-hour cou[r]ses unless I would take them at 8
                              o['] clock and I couldn[']t get up for an 8 o['] clock
                              after working till mid- night, so I took a three hour course at eleven
                              instead, which makes me carry an hour extra work, but that
                              won[']t be much. My courses are harder this semester than they
                              were last and I don[']t expect I will make as good grades as I
                              did last, but I am going to work hard anyway.65 I
                              didn[']t have to buy any books at all last semester but I had to
                              cut loose for $7 wor [th] of books today and am not thru yet.
                         The whole Phi Delt fraternity invited me to the dance as S.A.E. representative.
                               I know every one of them but my best friend is Dale Cox,
                              a boy who lives here in town and is a good reportrer [sic] on the Student. I have been learning my Masonry work
                              in my spare moments and am learned down almost to the obligation. I
                              will s[end] some [Indiana Daily S]tudents tomorrow. John made all his
                              work, but Buck flunked 5 hours, conditioned 5 hours and made D on 5
                              hours. I would be ashamed if I were he.




                         
                              64Harriett Davidson.
                              65Pyle's courses included Community
                                   Organization, an economics course taught by Professor Shelley D.
                                   Watts; University Geography, taught by Professor Visher;
                                   Principles of Sociology, taught by Professor Ulysses G.
                                   Weatherly; and The Small City Daily, taught by Professor Radder.
                                   Pyle was an economics and sociology major. (One could not major
                                   in journalism at Indiana until the early 1930s, although a
                                   journalism department had existed there since 1910.)
                         


                         




                         I got my hat the other day. It is a brown one. The gray ones we[re] all
                              too light so I didn[']t get one of them. It cost $5.
                         I must close. Will write more Sunday when I have more time.
                         Ernest.66
                    



                    
                         Tuesday Afternoon [February 7,
                                   1922]
                              Dear Folks:-
                         I got your letter yesterday morning and was glad to hear from you, of
                              course. I got a letter from Klink this morning and he is coming down
                              either this week-end or next.
                         I also got a letter from Paul Sturm this morning and he is all worked
                              up. He said Doc called him home and accused he and the rest of us of
                              being drunk when they were down here for the Purdue game. It's an
                              outrage, and makes me so mad I can't see straight. It's just
                              like someone said once, no matter how hard you may work to get to
                              the top, there[']s always someone waiting there to kick you
                              down.
                         I don't know who started such a story, but Paul thinks Earl
                              Thomasmyer did it over jealously over Opal.67 Paul
                              said Earl told that Paul wouldn't hardly associate with his dad
                              while they were down here. I can account for every minute the boys
                              spent here, and if he still insists that Paul and I were drunk, I can
                              prove it to him.
                         Some day he's going to pop off to me and I'm going to tell him
                              what I think of him. I wonder how he thinks I could spend 8 hours a
                              day working on the Student, make the highest grades in the fraternity,
                              and go with one of the most highly respected girls in school if I was
                              a drunkard?
                         There are three forms of dissipation that I absolutely do not 
                              participate in, and those are gambling, drinking and running with wild
                              women, and I defy anyone to say they ever saw me do any of them. I
                              guess papa ought to know whether I acted like I was drunk or not. You
                              can tell Doc Sturm where to go, and if you don't, I will.
                         How is Glen Sexton? The epidemic of sickness is about over here. Shorty
                              came in Sunday night and went back this morning. It was a quarter
                                   66Pyle to William and Maria Pyle, n.d.,
                                        accn. 68.980.002.0026a-b, collection of the Indiana State
                                        Museum and Historic Sites.
                                   67Thomasmyer was a 1918 Dana High
                                        School graduate. "Opal" was perhaps Opal Hooper,
                                        Class of 1919.
                              
                              till two when I got home from the
                              office this morning. This is my week to work at nights and I study in
                              the afternoon. I have Sweeney set me out a bowl of cornflakes so I can
                              eat every night before I go to bed. Well I must close as there
                              isn't much news and I have to write to Klink.
                         Ernest.68
                    
                    
                         Sunday Afternoon [February 19, 1922]69
                              Dear Folks:-
                         We have just had dinner and I am pretty full so I will write a little
                              before I start studying. I put on my blue suit today for the first
                              time in about a month and I had fallen off so much I could hardly keep
                              my pants on. I hadn't noticed it before.
                         Yesterday morning I wrote over a thousand words of "dope" on
                              the Memorial drive for the downtown papers.70
                              Yesterday I had a couple of passes to "The Merchant of
                              Venice" which is playing here this week-end, so Wilbur Cogshall
                              and I went to that.71 Last night I went to the
                              Sigma Kappa house dance and had an awfully nice time. It rained all
                              day yesterday and is warm and misty today.
                         John wrote to his dad about Doc Sturm's affair and here is his
                              answer, in his exact words: "As regards the question you ask, it
                              is too silly and nonsensical to dwell upon. Remember that a dirty lie
                              doesn't do much harm, it is the truth that counts. I know, and so
                              do all the rest that were down to I.U. that day that this is a lie
                              pure and simple, but be 
                                   68Pyle to William and Maria Pyle, n.d.,
                                        accn. 68.980.002.0027a-b, collection of the Indiana State
                                        Museum and Historic Sites.
                                   69Letter written on Indiana University
                                        Memorial Fund letterhead.
                                   70It appears likely that two articles
                                        on the front page of the Bloomington Evening
                                             World resulted from Pyle's efforts, and may
                                        have been his work. Neither is bylined, not unusual for the
                                        time. The first, "Alumni To Be Canvassed After Big
                                        Drive," appeared Monday, February 20, and the second,
                                        "Big Auditorium To Be Built Out [sic] Memorial
                                        Fund," was published Tuesday, February 21. Neither the
                                             Bloomington Weekly Courier nor the
                                             Bloomington Daily Telephone carried
                                        special advance articles about the drive. The World had had a close association with the Indiana Daily Student for a number of
                                        years, resulting from the Student being
                                        printed on World presses.
                                   71Pyle's ability to get free
                                        passes and transportation was legendary. "Declaring
                                        that he has 'bummed' his way 35,000 miles with
                                        Indiana athletic teams, Ernie Pyle, manager of the Indiana
                                        football squad and formerly editor of The Indiana Daily
                                        Student, claims that making one's way without money is
                                        the easiest thing in the world, so long as a person uses his
                                        head," reported the Madison,
                                                  Wisconsin
                                        Capital Times, "Champion Student Bum
                                        Travels With Hoosiers," October 24, 1922. Also see WR.
                                        Emslie, "Ernie Pyle's Colorful Efforts at I.U.
                                        Recalled by Classmate," Richmond
                                             Palladium-Item, April 11, 1943, p. 6.
                              
                               careful that no tales are told on
                              you that are hard to clear up. Write soon and pay no attention to the
                              gossip. This comes from someone that is no friend of ours, just keep
                              your forethought all the time and let your conscience be your guide.
                              When a fellow is out in the world he must have some horse sense to
                              keep in the clear track at all times." - So I am going to forget
                              all about it and let Doc Sturm go on with his low-down
                              "sleuthing."
                         I wrote a thesis last week on "Fatalism, or Predestination."
                              It is interesting but a pretty deep subject for me to be writing on.
                              Next week I have to write on "Socialism." I am going to make
                              50 cents this afternoon by writing a song for a Pi Phi pledge that has
                              to have a sorority song for initiation. Klink didn't come this
                              week-end or last either. I haven't heard from him since he wrote
                              that he was coming.
                         John is feeling allright now. He passed all his work & will be
                              initiated. I think initiation is March 9. Yes, Buck is still pledged,
                              I hope he will make his work this semester, if he does he will be
                              initiated about the time school is out. How is papa feeling by this
                              time? You must be careful for there is a lot of sickness now. A girl
                              died at Residence Hall Friday night. Paul wrote me that Spence quit
                              school. I guess he flunked out in some of his work.
                         Glad your chickens and lambs are doing well. Did you get the [Indiana
                              Daily] Students I sent the first of the week? Well, I don't think
                              of anymore to write so will close. Ward Gilbert, an S.A.E. that is
                              married and lives here in town, invited Harriett and I up to spend the
                              evening with them, so we are going up there this evening.72
                         Ernest
                         P.S. - I didn't send my laundry this week.73
                    



                    
                         Student Office
                                   Thursday Afternoon [February 23, 1922]74
                              Dear Folks:-
                         I didn[']t write to you yesterday because there wasn't any
                              mail delivery and no mail went out so I knew it was no use to write. I
                              got 
                                   72Gilbert lettered in basketball,
                                        baseball, and track at IU in a career that extended from
                                        1913 to 1922.
                                   73Pyle to William and Maria Pyle, n.d.,
                                        accn. 68.980.002.0025, collection of the Indiana State
                                        Museum and Historic Sites.
                                   74Letter written on Indiana Daily Student letterhead.
                              
                               your letter this morning and will
                              answer it now while I have a little time. It was awfully warm
                              yesterday and started raining last night and is turning colder
                              today. I suppose we will have quite a bit of winter weather yet before
                              spring comes.
                         Yesterday, being Geor[ge] Washington's birthday was a holiday, so
                              there were no classes. I wrote stuff for the Memorial drive all
                              forenoon and then had a date and went to the show in the afternoon.
                              The Tri Delts had initiation yesterday and Harriett was initiated. She
                              was awfully proud of her pin and kept looking at it last night but she
                              will get over that before long. She wanted me to go to
                                        Indianapolis to
                              the Tri Delt State dance the 11th of next month with her but I told
                              her that I didn[']t have enough money so wouldn[']t go. I
                              expect I could make the trip on six or seven dollars but I
                              didn[']t care much about going anyway.
                         Our cook hurt her knee Sunday and we didn[']t serve any meals at
                              the house till yesterday so we had to eat around. I was invited out to
                              dinner most of the time so didn[']t have to buy much stuff.
                              Yesterday was so warm some of the boys went hiking out in the country.
                              I think I will go some of these times when it gets warm and I have
                              time. Buck's girl is a Tri Delt and she was initiated yesterday
                              too.
                         Glad you have lots of lambs and that they are doing well. Are you going
                              to raise as many chickens this year as usual[?] Wish you
                              wouldn[']t work so hard with them. I hav[e]n't written to
                              Thad since Xmas so I don[']t know what he is doing. I suppose if
                              he did do anything wrong though Sturm's would make the most of
                              it. I get so mad [I] almost tremble every time I think of their names.
                              It's a wonder to me that Paul is as good a boy as he is the way
                              they nag at him. If he was brought up right in the first place he is
                              old enough now to know what is right and what is wrong without them
                              constantly nagging at him. I expect it will do him lots of good to go
                              to church when they write and tell him he has to go. I very seldom go
                              to church, but I'll bet that I do more thinking on the church and
                              religious subjects than Doc Sturm does in a year.
                         That dance where they tried to dance by wireless music was last Saturday
                              night at the Student Building. I wasn[']t there as that was the
                              night that I went to the Sigma Kappa house dance. I heard all about it
                              [th]o. They had their wires all strung and were going to catch some
                              music from Pittsburgh, but the air was so damp that they
                              couldn[']t do it so they wound up a phonograph over in Science
                              Hall and played into the amplifier and no one ever knew the  difference.75 Too bad Auntie is mad at you, maybe she will get over it
                              all-right. I wrote her a long time ago but I don[']t think she
                              has ever written to me.
                         I have a test the first of the week in Geology. I was in this
                              man[']s class two years ago and I think he likes me pretty well.
                              The other day he gave me an autographed copy of a booklet he wrote. He
                              has been in every country in the world and he talks about his travels
                              [q]uite a lot in class which of course interests me very much.76 Easter vacation is the 13th of April, almost
                              two months away, but I expect I will stay here and work and save some
                              money.
                         Ernest. (signature)77
                    



                    
                         Student Office
                                   Thursday Morning [March 2, 1922]
                              Dear Folks:-
                         I didn't get to write to you yesterday so I will peck you off a few
                              lines now. I got papa's letter and yours Tuesday. We have been
                              working pretty hard this week getting out a seven column paper and I
                              have to write five themes for my sociology te[a]cher.78 It is an awfully deep course but if I get thru it it
                              will be lots of help to me.
                         The weather has been real cold here for several d[ay]s but it is
                              beginning to warm up now. Maybe spring will be here in a few days. I
                              am going to the Men's Panhellenic formal dance Saturday night.
                              Each fraternity was entitled to ten tickets and only one person in
                              the house bought one as they were $5. Finally the fraternity bought
                              the other nine, each 
                                   75Plans for the dance were discussed in
                                        "Wireless Rigged for Union Radio Hop," Indiana Daily Student, February 18, 1922,
                                        p. 1, but the paper never reported what actually
                                        happened.
                                   76The reference here is to Professor
                                        Visher.
                                   77Pyle to William and Maria Pyle, n.d.,
                                        accn. 68.980.002.0028a-b, collection of the Indiana State
                                        Museum and Historic Sites.
                                   78The Daily Student
                                        normally appeared in a six-column format. Professor Ulysses
                                        Weatherly, who taught the sociology course, was a founder of
                                        the American Sociological Society (later Association) and
                                        served as the organization's president in 1923. Having
                                        received his Ph.D. from Cornell in History and Political
                                        Science, he was originally hired by IU's history
                                        department. See http://www.asanet.
                                        org/cs/root/leftnav/governancepast_officers/presidents/ulysses_g_weatherly
                                        for a summary of his career. Edwin H. Sutherland called
                                        Weatherly, who served as department chair for thirty-five
                                        years and taught mostly undergraduates, a "stimulating
                                        and enlightening teacher," American
                                             Sociological Review 6 (April 1941), 275.
                              
                               man paying $1.25, and they put
                              all the names in a hat and drew out nine, the first nine getting to go
                              to the dance. I happened to be the ninth one so I get to go to a $5
                              dance for $1.25. A week from Saturday night a girl invited me to the
                              Pi Phi formal.
                         I forgot to bring your letters with me and I want to get this out this
                              afternoon so I will have to send it without answering some of your
                              ques- tions, perhaps. I was over to the Sigma Chi house for lunch
                              today and had a nice time. There isn [']t a fraternity on the
                              campus that I haven[']t been invited out to. Well I must close as
                              there is lots of copy lying around here that must be worked out. I
                              will write more Sunday when I have your letters with me. I am feeling
                              fine.
                         Ernest.79
                    



                    
                         Thursday Morning [March 9, 1922]
                              Dear Folks:-
                         Well, the drive went over at midnight last night and I am sure not a bit
                              sorry, for it means that most of our hard work is over. The drive
                              opened at 5 o'clock Tuesday evening after a wonderful mass
                              meeting in the Men's Gymnasium. We put out an extra at [?] p.m.
                              that evening and another at midnight besides the regular morning
                              edition. I worked almost all night that night and was up and at it
                              again early the next morning. The campaign officials worked all night
                              soliciting subscriptions and tabulating results. Our fraternity was
                              one of the first to pledge 100 percent, that is, everybody in the
                              fraternity pledged to the drive. I pledged $200, payable within ten
                                   years.80
                         Yesterday was a holiday and now since the drive has gone over the goal
                              there will be no more school the rest of the week. I will send you a
                              bunch of papers, including the extras, this morning. We put out an
                              extra yesterday at noon and then the drive went over the top at about
                              midnight and we put out another extra then. They had an all night
                              celebration on the campus but I was so nearly worn out that I went
                              home and 
                                   79Pyle to William and Maria Pyle, n.d.,
                                        accn. 68.980.002.0029a-b, collection of the Indiana State
                                        Museum and Historic Sites.
                                   80This was an enormous pledge, equal to
                                        more than two months' salary. According to Historical
                                        Statistics of the United States: Millennial Edition Online
                                        at http://hsus.cambridge.org/HSUSWeb/HSUSEntryServlet,
                                        table Ba4280-4282, the annual earnings of farm and non-farm
                                        employees for 1922 were $1,190; for non-farm employees,
                                        $1,289.
                              
                               went to bed about 2 o'clock.
                              We are not putting out a regular paper today but are working on a big
                              one for the campaign director to send to all of the Alumni.81 We will get it off the press about 5
                              o'clock this evening and then they are going to have a big dance
                              in the Gymnasium tonight to celebrate the success of the campaign. I
                              think everybody in school will be there and as I have a pass I guess I
                              will go too. Our regular paper starts again tomorrow. This little
                              vacation will give me a chance to get caught up on my work altho I
                              don[']t have much back work to do.
                         No I have never given my pin to any girl nor have never gotten another
                                   one.82 I hav[e]n't had a pin on since
                              last October.83 I don[']t know what fraternity
                              Mariam's fellow belongs to.84 Nothing in
                              particular that I know of is going on when Marjory comes over. I think
                              Johnny went home last night as soon as he heard that the drive had
                              gone over and that there would be no school the rest of the week. Buck
                              is going to Indianapolis
                              tomorrow to the Tri Delt state dance. I had a chance to go but turned
                              it down. I don[']t know who Harriett is going to take now, I
                              forgot to ask her. It is warm again today, I hope spring is here for
                              good.
                         Johnny and Buck pledged $100 apiece, I think. Lots of fellows pledged
                              $200 that didn[']t have a cent to their name and are working
                              their way thru school, and then a lot of rich people were Bolshevics
                              [sic] and wouldn[']t pledge a thing. Those that could pledge and
                              didn[']t are sure going to be disgraced around here. It[']s
                              funny that the roads are so bad around home, they are pretty good
                              around here.
                         I got your letter yesterday morning but didn[']t find time to
                              answer it yesterday. I saw Aki for a minute yesterday for the first
                              time in about six weeks. "Stuke" Gorrell, my Kappa Sig buddy
                              who worked on the Student and had to quit school on account of a
                              nervous breakdown, is coming back to visit this weekend and is going
                              to stay most of the time 
                                   81For more information about that
                                        special, see "Daily Student to Print 8-Page Memorial
                                        Extra," Indiana Daily Student, March
                                        11, 1922, p. 1.
                                   82Pyle probably gave his Sigma Delta
                                        Chi (today known as the Society of Professional Journalists)
                                        pin to Davidson, rather than his fraternity pin.
                                   83According to "Where Ernie Pyle
                                        Came From," an unpublished manuscript by George C.
                                        Bales, Pyle became disenchanted with his fraternity when it
                                        blackballed his pledge nominee in the fall of 1921. Copy in
                                        author's possession.
                                   84Mariam Bales was Pyle's
                                        girlfriend in first grade. After graduating from the
                                        University of Illinois, she taught school in
                                        Clinton,
                                        Indiana. She married Ed Goforth, who bought the Pyle farm
                                        after the death of Ernie Pyles father.
                              
                               with me.85 I
                              would like to go into the newspaper business with him sometime because
                              he sure is good but his health isn[']t very good. I hear from
                              Doris about every week. I think she must be getting to the crazy
                              stage, the way some of her letters sound. She talks a right smart
                              about men now and that makes me sick. I still like the women and like
                              to play around but I guess I have gotten old enough not to lose my
                              head over every one I see. How are your lambs and chickens getting
                              along? Is Auntie still mad at you? I think she owes me a letter but I
                              would write to her some of these days anyway if I could find time.
                         Well, I don[']t think of anything to write so will close. If you
                              are in town Saturday you might go around and see Johnny. Is Shorty
                              still at home, I hav[e]n't heard from him since he was down
                              here.
                         Ernest.86
                    



                    
                         On the Pacific
                                   Saturday April 1 [1922]
                              Dear Folks,
                         Well, we are on our way to Japan at last so I will start you a long
                              letter now and write a little each day and mail it when we reach
                              Yokohama. We sailed today at 11:30 and reached Vancouver,
                              Canada at 4
                              o'clock and are now well out into the Pacific. Cooper and Benham,
                              the other two boys, got on at the last minute so we are all going to
                              get to take the trip.87




                         
                              85Stu Gorrell, who roomed with Hoagy
                                   Carmichael, is responsible for at least some of the lyrics to
                                   Carmichael's "Georgia on My Mind." Some
                                   authorities also give him credit for suggesting to Carmichael the
                                   title "Stardust" for that composition. Richard
                                   Sudhalter, Stardust Melody: The Life & Music of
                                   Hoagy Carmichael (New York, 2002), 373n36.
                              86Pyle to William and Maria Pyle, n.d.,
                                   accn. 68.980.002.0030a-b, collection of the Indiana State Museum
                                   and Historic Sites.
                              87Joel Benham and Warren Cooper joined
                                   Harold Kaiser and Pyle on the trip. In the fall after the group
                                   returned from Japan, Benham was rooming with
                                   Gene Uebelhardt, a Filipino who had been a steward on the ship
                                   and whom the four men smuggled back into the States. When Pyle
                                   elected to move out of his fraternity house because his brothers
                                   had turned down his nomination of a man from
                                   Dana, he moved
                                   into the room with Benham and Uebelhardt. Miller, The Story of Ernie Pyle, 22-24. Benham did not
                                   complete his studies, however. Instead he farmed near
                                   Bloomfield,
                                   Indiana. He died in
                                   October 1978. Bloomington, Indiana Herald-Telephone, October 20, 1978. Cooper
                                   (Class of 1924) and Kaiser (Class of 1925) both received degrees
                                   in Commerce (Business). According to IU alumni records, five
                                   years after graduation Cooper was a field representative for the
                                   treasurer's office at General Motors. No information was
                                   available on Kaiser.
                         
                         
                         I will now start and tell you all the events that happened since we left
                                        Bloomington, for
                              yours and Lou's benefit. We left there at midnight on Friday
                              night and arrived in Chicago the next morning. While the
                              other boys were seeing the town, I went around and got me an
                              identification card at the Western Union office and then went to the
                              Herald-Examiner office and got a Job writing for the Hearst papers
                              while I was in Japan.88 I then
                              went to Jack's office and in the afternoon he went out with me
                              and we bummed around together all afternoon. I had lost
                              Sullivan's address so I didn't know where to find him. Our
                              train left for St Paul at 6
                              o'clock so we left and went right to sleep as soon as we got on
                              the train. We got into St.
                                   Paul at 7 o'clock the next morning
                              and stayed there until 11 o'clock when our train left for
                                        Seattle.
                                        St. Paul is a nice
                              place, about the size of Indianapolis and a real clean
                              little place. It was pretty cold when we got there and the Mississippi
                                   River was frozen over in places. We crossed the river
                              and went thru Minneapolis and
                              then started west thru Minnesota, The land in Minnesota is fairly
                              level, with long sweeping rolling places. You seldom see a fence there
                              besides what the railroad has put up, and you can hardly see a road.
                              What few there are are right flat with the ground, have no elevation
                              nor no ditches at the side and have no fences along them. It kept
                              getting colder all the time and by the time we woke up in
                              North Dakota
                              the next morning it was awfully cold.
                         The ride was pretty monotonous from central Minn. to central Montana because everything looked the
                              same, there were few houses and everything looked deserted. We got to
                              Livingston,
                              Montana at 5 p.m. Monday and then were in the foothills of the
                              Rockies, It is just 30 miles north of Yellowstone park and we saw the
                              railroad that led down to the park and could also see the top of a
                              mountain that was in the park. It got dark before we got into the
                              highest mountains, but we woke up in Idaho the
                              next morning in the midst of them. The scenery is wonderful, I cannot
                              attempt to describe it. Papa can tell you how wonderful the mountain
                              scenery is better than I can in a letter. We soon were in
                                        Washington and in the
                              midst of the fir tree district. Of all the places I saw on the way out
                              I would rather live in this district than any other. After passing
                              thru these we came into a desert and rode for about five hours without
                              seeing a living thing. It is a disheartening sight, part of the 
                                   88A search of copies of the Herald-Examiner during this period did
                                        not produce any articles by Pyle.
                              
                               land is dry and the other is
                              covered with sage brush, which is a little tree about two feet tall
                              and looks like it is about burned up. We began coming into the
                              mountains about dark and then we put on two engines and went thru some
                              awfully big ones before we got to Seattle at ten o'clock on Tuesday
                              night. We went from Chicago to St.
                                        Paul on the C. B. and Q.
                              [Chicago,
                              Burlington and Quincy] and from there to Seattle on the Northern
                              Pacific. We slept in our seats all of the time and were not a bit worn
                              out when we got here. I got more sleep on the trip than I had any
                              night for the last three months. We went to a hotel and stayed all
                              night and the next morning I went to the post office and had a letter
                              from Harriett. We then went to see if our passports were here and they
                              were not but they issued us special series passports. Benham and
                              Cooper then went to get something to eat and Kaiser and I went and
                              looked Mr. Hammond up. He directed us to Captain Smith of the United
                              States shipping board and we went to see him and told him what we
                              wanted. He said he didn't have the authority to do anything for
                              us but he called up Captain Payne of the Sea Service Bureau and made
                              an appointment with him for us and told him that he would like to see
                              us get on. Captain Payne was awfully nice to us and told us he would
                              do all he could for us but said that there was no hopes for the other
                              two boys because they would be lucky if they found room for we two. On
                              that afternoon we went out to the ship and reported to the chief
                              steward and he told us we could come on the next morning at 8
                              o'clock, and told us to go to the second steward and get a pass
                              to come on board the ship whenever we wanted to. So we went to the
                              second steward, who does the hiring of the crew and he said that he
                              couldn't use us at all[,] that he had a full crew. So we were
                              pretty downhearted but we went out the next morning and went on board
                              the ship anyway in the hopes that something would turn up. We hung
                              around in the way and finally I guess he got tired of us and told us
                              to get to work. So we worked till one o'clock when they signed
                              the articles to take the voyage. Captain Payne came out and told us
                              that if we would sign up to make the entire round trip that he would
                              get us on, so we did. We worked then for two days on the ship before
                              we sailed. In the meantime the other boys went to Captain Payne and he
                              said he would do all he could for them but that he didn't think
                              there was any hopes. But yesterday they went to see him and at 10
                              o'clock this morning, just an hour before the vessel sailed. They
                              have jobs as mess boys and we are on as bell boys. Kaiser and I are
                              the only two bell boys on the ship and it keeps us pretty bus[y]
                              running errands but I expect we will get a lot of good tips before we
                              leave the ship.
                         
                         I was interrupted there by a severe case of sea-sickness. This is four
                              days later, but I was only sick half a day. I have been feeling fine
                              ever since but the sea has been so rough that it was impossible to
                              write any. Yesterday we had an awfully heavy sea and about half of the
                              passengers were sick. Ward Gilbert has been sick ever since we left
                              Seattle. I feel sorry for him because he isn't enjoying the trip
                              as much as he would otherwise. We are just off the coast of
                                        Alaska today and if it was
                              a clear day we could see the mountains in Alaska. The sea is getting smoother today
                              and they say that we will have a nice trip from here on in. We four
                              boys sleep in the "glory hole" and have a nice clean bunk. I
                              usually go to bed about 8:30 and get up about 6:30 so you see I am
                              getting about twice as much sleep as I got at school. And then besides
                              I quit work at noon and have all afternoon off and then work from 6
                              till 8 in the evening so I have all afternoon off and I usually sleep
                              there because there is nothing else to do. Now that the sea is
                              smoother I think I will write a few letters and mail them when I get
                              to Japan. I am keeping a diary and am going
                              to take a lot of pictures in China and the
                                        Phillipine [sic] Islands and I think
                              maybe I will write a book or something when I get back. We will be in
                                        Yokohama two days,
                              in Kobe 1 day, in
                                        Shanghai 3 days, in
                                        Hong Kong two days
                              and in Manila 5 days, so you
                              see we will get to see a right smart of the Orient.
                         The baggageman on here, one of the officers, took a liking to us and
                              invited Kaiser and I up in his stateroom last night. He fed us candy
                              and showed us pictures and treated us like we were his own boys. He
                              used to go to the University of Minnesota. Everyone on the ship knows
                              where we are from and the circumstances under which we are here, and
                              everyone treats us fine. Even the tougher gang that have been to sea
                              all their lives do not pick on us because I guess they admire our
                              nerve to start so far,
                         The last letter I got from you was on Friday night before we sailed. It
                              was the one that had the dollar bill and the stamps in it. You said
                              you would write one the next day but if you did I had gone before it
                              got there.
                         Later.
                    
                    
                         Today is Sunday but it is Saturday at Dana, because we crossed the 180th
                              meridian last night and set the calendar up a day. Yesterday was
                              Friday. We are due in Yokohama next Thursday, and after about
                              a day there will go to Kobe,
                              then to Shanghai, then to
                                        Hong Kong and then
                              to Manila. We will be in
                                        Manila about 5 days.
                              We will pick the team up at 
                              Yokohama on the way back. We are
                              due in Seattle May 23, and I
                              will come home direct from Seattle on the Canadian Pacific. I will
                              get home about the 30th of May and we are having a dance at the house
                              on June 3. I wonder if Auntie would let me take her car and drive down
                              to Bloomington the day before the dance and then drive back the day
                              after the dance. If she would I would like to have Harriett come home
                              with me and then we could go back on the train the next day. I would
                              like for you to meet her and it would be nice if I could drive down
                              and back. The sea is pretty rough today and it is all I can do to keep
                              this typewriter on the table. We passed thru a pretty bad storm the
                              other night and the old boat sure did do some rocking. We have an
                              awfully soft job. Kaiser and I work together and we get up in the
                              morning and scrub our stairway and then one of us stays on the bell
                              for a half day. We have a chair and sit there until a bell rings and
                              then we go to the room that is calling. We make about fifty cents a
                              day on tips. I felt pretty good this morning. I asked the chief
                              steward if Kaiser and I were doing our work satisfactorily and he
                              said, "Yes, I have said it to your back so I will tell you, if
                              every body on the ship did their work as well as you two boys,
                              everything would get along fine." And it's very seldom that
                              any of these sailors ever say anything like that. I had a long talk
                              with Dean Edmondson yesterday and said he certainly admired us for
                              this trip and he wants me to write a book about [it] when I get back.
                              If I don't get the editorship of the Student next fall on account
                              of taking the trip, I think I will not work on the Student at all and
                              will devote all my time to writing a book. I will have a lot of
                              pictures in it and I think I can make a right smart [amount] of money
                              out of it besides the experience. It is getting so rough I can't
                              keep the typewriter on the table so will have to finish this
                              later.
                    
                    
                         [Handwritten] Wednesday April 12
                         We are due in Yokohama tomorrow,
                              so I will scribble a little more, and seal this up. I am actually
                              gaining back my flesh again, could you believe it? I eat all the time,
                              and sleep about 11 hours a day, so I guess I am getting a much needed
                              rest. Of all the trips I have made, and knocking around I have done,
                              this jaunt is the easiest yet. We are due back in
                                        Seattle May 23, and
                              you can write me a few letters and have them waiting there for me when
                              I get there. It will be no use to write me before then, because the
                              letters will not reach me. I will send you a telegram when I get
                              there, so don't be alarmed when you get a wire. I will write 
                              
                                   "Indiana's Maker of Men." This caricature of
                                        Pyle, highlighting his travels and his role as student
                                        editor, appeared in the 1923 Arbutus.
                                   Courtesy Indiana University Archives
                               you a letter when we get to Shanghai. Hope you are all well.
                              Tell Lou, Babro, Planks and everybody hello.
                         Love,
                              Ernest89
                    

                    An editorial that appeared in a 1922 State Fair edition of the Daily Student captures the way in which Indiana University
                         contributed to the 
                              89Pyle to William and Maria Pyle, April 1,
                                   12 [1922], box LMC 1879, 1884-1925, Pyle Mss. II, Lilly
                                   Library.
                         
                          spirit of the public good discussed in
                         the introduction to these letters.90 Pyle was the
                         editor of that first series of State Fair editions in 1922, and therefore
                         almost certainly wrote the editorial, "It's In The Air":
                              
                              Nearly everyone who has ever attended Indiana
                                   University will tell you there is no place in the world like
                                             Indiana. They
                                   sometimes attempt to explain that statement but they
                              cannot.
                              Strangely enough, in their attempt to explain, they fail to mention
                                   the assets of the school usually mentioned by its boosters. They
                                   have nothing to say about the remarkable professors whose fame
                                   seems so much greater in the outside world than it does to the
                                   students who work under them. They do not mention the buildings
                                   or equipment or the many advantages carefully compiled in the
                                   school catalog. They do not gather together and present facts
                                   which a logical speaker would use in convincing folk that this is
                                   a great school.
                              Ex-students recognize the value of all these
                                   things, recognize their argumentative value. But when they
                                   ejaculate that there is no place in all the world like
                                             Indiana, they are
                                   thinking about something else. They are thinking of spring days
                                   when the campus is bursting with fragrance, vivid with the color
                                   of blossoms and new leaves, and when the moon is bright-it is
                                   undeniable that spring is nowhere in the world as it is at
                                   Indiana. They are thinking about the autumn evenings when dusk
                                   has settled and the last cheers have died out over Jordan Field
                                   and another football game has become a memory, another football
                                   game which may or may not have been a victory but which was a
                                   courageous fight by Indiana men whom everyone in school knew and
                                   liked. They are thinking of "pep" meetings and mass
                                   meetings and pow-wows in which Indiana men sounded the ancient
                                   battle cry, where sheepish football captains tried to make
                                   speeches before a howling crowd of students and equally wild old
                                   grads, and where 
                                        90The State Fair edition, which
                                             began in 1922, continued more than thirty years. The
                                             first year's publication is described in
                                             "Student Paper to Be Published During State Fair:
                                             Hoosier to Direct College Enterprise-Special Staff to
                                             Assist," Indianapolis Sunday
                                                  Star, September 3, 1922, p. 10. Pyle and his
                                             staff are pictured in "Edit Paper at State
                                             Fair," Indianapolis Star,
                                             September 5, 1922, p. 2.
                                   
                                    the old songs gave at the
                                   same time a sudden impulse to tears and an electric thrill down
                                   the backbone. They are thinking about hundreds of wholesome,
                                   pleasant people, who were their friends. They are thinking
                                   something about Indiana which none of them could ever express in
                                   words.
                              These persons who make such broad unqualified statements about
                                   Indiana say that they have since tried out living in many other
                                   places but that somehow the tang is missing. Other schools can
                                   contain nothing after such moments. Other schools seem to lack
                                   the facilities to produce those thrills which certainly can come
                                   within but four years of a lifetime.
                              These are the feelings of those who have been here and have left.
                                   Perhaps it is foolish and sentimental but they will affirm it is
                                   the truth.91


                    
                         91Indiana Daily Student,
                              September 5, 1922, p. 4.
                    
               

               

               
                    "A Full Supply of the Necessaries and Comforts of Life"
                    The Owenite Community of Blue Spring, Indiana
                    DAWN E. BAKKEN
                    Indiana and Robert Owen are forever linked
                         in history through the town of New Harmony, one of the best known of many
                         communitarian experiments in the nineteenth-century United States.1 But during the brief period from 1824 to 1828, a
                         crop of Owenite communities arose across the Midwest and the East, most
                         only surviving for a few months or a year. One of these short-lived
                         experiments took root in Monroe County, Indiana, about seven miles south of
                         the recently established 
                              Dawn E. Bakken is associate editor of the IMH.
                                   Her article, "Young Believers and Old Believers in the
                                   Wilderness: Narratives of Place and the Construction of Family
                                   among Western Shakers," appeared in the December 2001 issue
                                   of the magazine. The author would like to thank former IMH intern
                                   Meredith Lizza for help with transcription, and the staffs of the
                                   Indiana Room of the Monroe County Public Library and the
                                   genealogical library of the Monroe County History Center for
                                   their assistance.
                              1See, for example, John E C. Harrison, Quest for the New Moral World: Robert Owen &
                                        the Owenites in Britain and America
                                             (New York,
                                   1969); Arthur Bestor, Backwoods Utopias: The Sectarian Origins and the
                                        Owenite Phase of Communitarian Socialism in America,
                                        1663-1829 (2nd ed.,
                                   Philadelphia,
                                   Pa., 1970); Donald E Carmony and Josephine M. Elliott, "New
                                   Harmony, Indiana: Robert Owen's Seedbed for Utopia,"
                                        Indiana Magazine of History 76 (September
                                   1980), 161-261.
                         
                          town of Bloomington. The Blue Spring
                         community, as it was designated in its constitution, formed in April 1826
                         and dissolved by the next spring, but its founding precepts, its members,
                         and even its failure still merit notice as an interesting chapter in the
                         history of American communitarianism and frontier Indiana.
                    By the second decade of the nineteenth century, Welsh-born businessman turned
                         social reformer Robert Owen was ready to cast his ideas, formed during
                         years of social engineering at his factory in New
                              Lanark, Scotland, before
                         the wider world. Between 1813 and 1817, Owen published a series of essays
                         on A New View of Society, in which he put forth his
                         beliefs on individual character and society: "That the character of
                         man is, without a single exception, always formed for him; that it may be,
                         and is chiefly, created by his predecessors .... Man, therefore, never did,
                         nor is it possible he ever can, form his own character."2 Because character could only be formed outside the individual,
                         Owen believed that education should be available to people of all ages and
                         all social classes, but especially to young children. Owen also wanted to
                         see communities built around cooperation, human betterment, and a lack of
                         the competition, greed, and other evils that he saw infecting the character
                         of so many children and adults.
                    Owen continued to speak and publish, but at this point in his career he found
                         little support for his ideas in Britain.3 He longed to build an ideal community that would serve as a
                         proving ground for his theories and a pattern that could be replicated.
                         Owen's imagined community-with no more than 2,000 people-would provide
                         housing, food, clothing, and basic wants to every inhabitant in return for
                         their labor. The community would emphasize children's education but
                         would make learning and cultural enrichment available to all. Residents
                         would engage in agriculture and a wide variety of manufacturing
                         enterprises. In August 1824, opportunity presented itself to Owen in the
                         person of an agent representing the Harmony Society, a successful
                         communitarian religious group with a large settlement in southwestern
                         Indiana. The community wanted to sell its lands and all of its buildings;
                         by October, 
                              2Robert Owen, A New View of
                                        Society (1817; New
                                        York, 1991), 91.
                              3In the 1830s and 1840s, Owenism gained
                                   popularity in Britain as a
                                   working-class movement. See, for example, Harrison, Quest for the New Moral World, 195-232; Sidney Pollard
                                   and John Salt, eds., Robert Owen, Prophet of the
                                        Poor: Essays in Honour of the Two Hundredth Anniversary of
                                        his Birth (London, 1971).
                         
                          Owen had set sail for
                                   America. After landing on November 4, he
                         worked his way west from New
                              York through Philadelphia, Washington, D.C., and
                                   Pittsburgh, giving
                         speeches, attending dinners, and meeting with influential people. He
                         continued on through Ohio-stopping to speak in
                                   Cincinnati-to
                                   Indiana, where he arrived on December 16 in
                                   Harmony.
                    Owen purchased the entire town of Harmony-its land, its agricultural acreage,
                         its homes, its businesses and manufacturing sites. In public speeches and
                         in private communications, he issued an open invitation to join the new
                         community. New Harmony attracted farmers, business owners, scientists,
                         artists, intellectuals, and social reformers, as well as the merely
                         curious. The town became known for its educational reforms, primarily
                         because of the school led by William Maclure; it also became associated
                         with scientists, such as Thomas Say, and reformers, including Frances
                              Wright.4
                    New
                                   Harmony grew and struggled from early
                         1825 into 1828, when the community, beset by economic failures and internal
                         divisions, devolved into an ordinary town, albeit one with some rather
                         extraordinary occupants. Robert Owen had spent much of that period
                         traveling back and forth from the United States to
                                   England, adopting a curiously detached
                         approach to his great experiment. Historian Arthur Bestor describes Owen in
                         1825 as acting "in utter disregard of the fact that he had staked
                         everything upon a crucial experiment. While time ticked away, he turned his
                         back upon the reality which was New
                              Harmony in order to chase the phantom which
                         was public opinion."5
                    Owen's search for public recognition, however, did bear fruit beyond New
                         Harmony, his influence spreading via a series of short-lived communities
                         formed around his principles. Many people heard Owen speak as he made his
                         way from New York to Indiana in
                         late 1824; many more read newspaper accounts of his speeches.6 Six months after Owen 
                              4For a general history of
                                             New Harmony,
                                   see William E. Wilson, The Angel and the Serpent:
                                        The Story of New Harmony (Bloomington,
                                             Ind., 1964). The
                                   collection of the Working Men's Institute at
                                             New Harmony,
                                   an extensive collection of documents on the Owenite period and
                                   the decades beyond, is available online at
                                   http://www.workingmensinstitute.org. On some of New
                                   Harmony's better-known inhabitants, see, for example,
                                   Leonard Warren, Maclure of New Harmony: Scientist,
                                        Progressive Educator Radical Philanthropist
                                             (Bloomington,
                                             Ind., 2009);
                                   Patricia Tyson Stroud, Thomas Say: New World
                                        Naturalist (Philadelphia,
                                             Pa., 1992);
                                   Carmony and Elliott, "New Harmony, Indiana,"
                                   222-39.
                              5Bestor, Backwoods
                                   Utopias, 122.
                              6On Owen's reception by the American
                                   press, see ibid., 122-37.
                         
                          completed the purchase of
                         Harmony's land and buildings, an Owenite community sprang up in
                                   Yellow Springs,
                                   Ohio. During the same month, a joint stock
                         society based on Owenite principles began in Illinois. In December, three more communities
                         were formed, one in Fountain County,
                                   Indiana, one in Philadelphia, and another in the state
                         of New
                                   York. In spring 1826, a group of Quakers in
                         Kendal, Ohio, began yet
                         another community; in April, members of the Blue Spring community in
                         southern Indiana signed their constitution. Only two of these groups
                         endured past 1827, and all of them quickly passed from historical
                              memory.7
                    In 1826, when the Blue Spring community began, much of Monroe County was
                         still undeveloped. A few families had begun to buy land in 1816 and 1817.
                         The county seat of Bloomington was laid out in 1818 and by the end of that
                         year could claim thirty families, as well as a log courthouse that also
                         served as the first schoolhouse. The town quickly acquired general
                         merchandise stores, tanneries, blacksmith shops, grain mills and sawmills,
                         carding and fulling mills, taverns, and other small and necessary
                         businesses. Even with this growth, by 1824 the town had only about 400
                         inhabitants. The surrounding rural townships were slowly gaining settlers,
                         who bought eighth, quarter, and half-sections of land on which to establish
                              farms.8
                    One of those rural townships was Van Buren, a few miles to the west and south
                         of Bloomington, with "rich, fertile .
                         . . well watered" land, which had already attracted a number of
                         families by the mid-1820s. Among those families were many of the original
                         signers of the Blue Spring constitution.9
                    The Blue Spring community is first mentioned in a news summary in the
                         February 8, 1826, issue of the New Harmony Gazette: Several communities on the principles of Mr. Owen,
                              (with some modifications) have been established in various parts of
                              the country-viz, at the Yellow Spring, in
                              Ohio; the Alleghany
                              Association, at Pittsburgh; one at the
                              Blue Spring, near Bloomington,
                              Indiana; the Philadelphia Association; and .... 
                                   7See Bestor, Backwoods
                                             Utopias, chap. 8; Harrison, Quest for
                                             the New Moral World, 163-92.
                                   8Charles Blanchard, Counties of Morgan, Monroe, & Brown, Indiana
                                        (Chicago, 1884), 452-56.
                                   9Ibid., 507.
                              
                               another co-operative community is
                              commencing from families of Wilmington
                              and Philadelphia. It is to be
                              located twenty miles from Lancaster.10
                    No independent evidence exists to suggest how many people were involved at
                         this early stage. The community officially formed in April, when the first
                         members signed its constitution, which appears below. There are no physical
                         remains of the community and little evidence of what it was like to live
                              there.11 Some basic information on most of the
                         original signers can be gleaned from early county records; a few of the
                         signers are known only by name.
                    Nineteen men and eight women signed the community's constitution. Land
                         deed records reveal that twelve of the nineteen men owned land. Nine of the
                         men owned land in Van Buren Township, where the Blue Spring community was
                         located; four men owned town lots in nearby Bloomington. Eighteen of the nineteen
                         men were married, as were seven of the eight women (the other female signer
                         was probably an adult daughter of one of the member couples). Five men had
                         held county-level offices-justice of the peace, recorder, surveyor-or had
                         served on grand juries.12
                    Family ties seem to have been one important element in determining who joined
                         the community. Four members of the Berry family- William, James, Hannah,
                         and Elizabeth-signed the constitution. Elizabeth was married to Dudley
                         Smith, another signer; Hannah was married to signer Robert Hamilton; and
                         William was married to Patsy Givens, a relative of signer John Givens. In
                         addition, John Givens was married to Jane Berry and signer Orion Crocker
                         was married to Olivia Berry.
                    
                         10New Harmony Gazette, February
                              8, 1826, p. 159, online at http:/www.workingmensinstitute.com/.
                         11The primary account of the community is Richard
                              Simons, "A Utopian Failure," Indiana History
                                   Bulletin 18 (1941), 98-113. Some of the Blue Spring signers
                              are buried in Harmony cemetery, in Van Buren Township, a few miles
                              south and west of Bloomington,
                              Indiana.
                         12Information on the signers was compiled from
                              Monroe County Deed Records, Book A, Dec. 1817-Dec. 1825, Genealogical
                              Library, Monroe County History Center, Bloomington,
                              Indiana; Monroe County Marriage Records, 1818-1881
                              (Bloomington,
                              Ind., 1995); General Land Office Records, Bureau of Land
                              Management, U.S. Department of the Interior, online at
                              http://www.glorecords.blm.gov/; U.S., Fourth Census, 1820, Population
                              Schedules for Monroe County, Indiana, and U.S., Fifth Census, 1830,
                              Population Schedules for Monroe County, Indiana, both online at
                              http://www.ancestry.com/.
                    
                    
                    The available information suggests that the signers were fairly typical of
                         the white settlers who were moving into the state of Indiana. They were
                         farmers-with two also involved in a milling business-many with both nuclear
                         and extended families. They were neither wealthy nor dirt poor. What were
                         the attractions of this Owenite settlement, that these women and men were
                         willing to pledge themselves to it?
                    We do not know how the Blue Spring members first heard of Owen and his
                         proposal for a new society. Someone may have heard him speak in
                                   Cincinnati and been
                         inspired. Bestor writes that "Owenism was more gospel than
                         theory," casting Owen as a secular preacher whose theory of social
                         reform was "closely bound up with the personality of its
                         founder." Bestor's description is borne out by the memoir of
                         Miner Kellogg, an artist who, as a young boy, spent time in
                                   New Harmony.
                         Kellogg's father, a Cincinnati businessman, had heard Owen
                         promise "a much happier era in human affairs" and the
                         reformer's "calm logic and good temper" persuaded the man to
                         give up his business and move to New Harmony. If the Blue Spring members
                         did not hear Owen in person, it is likely that newspaper accounts of his
                         speeches made their way to Bloomington.13
                    Owen's model of a small community whose members cooperated in
                         agriculture, manufacture, and domestic work would have appealed to young
                         families as well as unmarried men beginning to make their lives on the
                         frontier. Harrison observes that "although the ideology of Owenism was
                         not the product of frontier conditions the communities themselves were in
                         part a response to problems of life on the frontier. ... The Owenite
                         community became in practice, if not always in original intent, a means of
                         coping with such difficulties of pioneer settlement as shortage of capital,
                         technical knowledge and social institutions." The priority of
                         education-"the basis on which the future prosperity and happiness of
                         the community must be founded" (article 19)-and the guarantee of
                         schooling to every child in the community must have been of particular
                         interest in a county where only a few small schools had been built.14
                    The constitution exhibits themes found in other Owenite community
                         documents: the social system of society as preferable to the individual;
                         cooperation as key to the community's workings (article 2); a
                         "voice" 
                              13Bestor, Backwoods
                                        Utopias, 94; Lorna Lutes Sylvester, ed., "Miner K.
                                   Kellogg: Recollections of New Harmony," Indiana
                                        Magazine of History 64 (March 1968), 45-46.
                              14On the few early schools in Monroe County,
                                   see History of Lawrence and Monroe Counties,
                                        Indiana (Indianapolis,
                                             Ind., 1914),
                                   261-63.
                         
                          for both men and women in community
                         matters (7); a plan for agriculture and manufacture in the community's
                         future (11); a structure of departments and committees for community
                         administration (14); an educational system which would mold each child into
                         "a rational being and render him charitable benevolent and kind to all
                         his fellow creatures" (19); liberty of religious thought and practice
                         (21); the importance of non-violent, gradual change from one social system
                         to another (31); and the assignment of domestic work to women members (33).
                         The document also reveals the earliest structure of the community:
                         William B. May, Jonathan Nichols, and John Givens are listed as the
                         "Committee of Management" and Robert Hamilton is identified as
                         the treasurer.15
                    After the constitution, signed by some members on April 10, and by others on
                         April 15 and May 11, the next document related to the community is a land
                         deed for 80 acres ("the West half of the South west quarter") of
                         section 21 of Van Buren Township. The deed is signed by a "Committee
                         of the Blue Spring Community," made up of John Givens, Jonathan
                         Nichols, and Coonrod Kerns. No deed records indicate that any of the
                         members who already owned land sold any of that property during the time
                         that the community existed.16
                    Blue Spring also appears once more in the records of the New Harmony
                         settlement. The January 31, 1827, edition of the New Harmony Gazette
                         recorded: We have recently received a visit from
                              two members of the Blue-Spring Community, established about fifteen
                              months since, near Bloomington in this state, who inform us that the
                              society there proceeds harmoniously and prosperously.17
                    We have no contemporaneous accounts of life during the months that the
                         community tried to enact the articles of its constitution. In 1938, Dr.
                         Rodney D. Smith, a grandson of one of the signers, deposited a 
                              15See, for example, Walter B. Hendrickson,
                                   "An Owenite Society in Illinois," Indiana
                                        Magazine of History 45 (June 1949), 180-82; Wendall P.
                                   Fox, "The Kendal Community," Ohio Archaeological and
                                   Historical Quarterly 20 (1911), 176-219.
                              16General Land Office Records, Bureau of
                                   Land Management, U.S. Department of the Interior, online at
                                   http://www.glorecords.blm.gov/. Kerns did not sign the
                                   constitution and there is no information available on him from
                                   the sources used for this article.
                              17New Harmony Gazette,
                                   January 31, 1827, p. 142, online at http://www.workingmens
                                   institute.org/.
                         
                          typescript titled "The Blue
                         Spring Community" with the Monroe County Historical Society. Smith
                         also gave information to Richard S. Simons for a 1941 article on the
                         community. Histories that mention Blue Spring often rely on Rodney
                         Smith's information, as well as oral traditions used by Simons;
                         although Simons himself treated the information with due caution,
                         subsequent accounts often cite tradition as fact and seldom refer to the
                         original source.18
                    Simons's account of the community-more than a century after the
                         fact-describes "twenty-four houses," a store, a granary, and a
                         schoolhouse. According to patterns suggested by Owen, the log houses were
                         said to be "erected in the form of a square with six dwellings to a
                         side." Local informants also told Simons that after the dissolution of
                         the community, some of the members moved their cabins to their own farms
                         elsewhere in the township.19
                    Rodney Smith's account, based on his family stories, adds more
                         information about the school at Blue Spring: My
                              grandfather, Dudley Chase Smith, who had come to
                                        Bloomington from
                              Vermont and taught
                              Bloomington's first school, was invited to
                              teach the Community School. This he did for the year that the
                              organization existed-1826-1827.
                    Finally, Smith's typescript suggests two contributing factors to the
                         community's failure: The industrious members
                              would not tolerate the lazy ones. Then my grandfather said the women
                              quarreled over what color to dye the homespun jeans they had woven to
                              make the men's pants.20
                    
                         18For his account of the buildings at Blue
                              Springs, Simons cites "Grant Thrasher, present owner of the Blue
                              Spring farm and descendant of a pioneer family of the vicinity; Walter
                              Borland, farmer, living near the site of the community and life-long
                              resident of the vicinity." Simons, "A Utopian Failure,"
                              104n15. Examples of later newspaper articles include "Museum
                              Musings: Blue Springs, A Communal Experiment from Our Past," Bloomington Magazine April-May 1989; and Richard S.
                              Simons, "The End of Utopia," Indianapolis Star
                                   Magazine, May 3, 1953, pp. 6-7, in which Simons eschewed
                              some of his earlier caution about sources.
                         19Simons, "A Utopian Failure,"
                              104.
                         20Rodney D. Smith, "The Blue Spring
                              Community," copy of typescript, Blue Springs Community File,
                              Local History Collection, Indiana Room, Monroe County Public Library,
                              Bloomington,
                              Indiana.
                    
                    
                    Did Blue Spring fail over the dye color of a batch of denim? Probably not,
                         but both of the stories suggest that the small community, like other
                         Owenite experiments, experienced insurmountable difficulties with the
                         practical application of Owen's cooperative society. Communities
                         seldom enjoyed the right mix of farmers and craftsmen for
                              self-sufficiency.21 Cooperation did not overcome
                         shortages of capital, and hastily built dwellings sometimes provided
                         inadequate quarters for living and working in communal order. And like
                         other Owenite communities, Blue Spring apparently attracted members who
                         did not contribute their fair share of labor.
                    The dispute over homespun jeans also suggests that Blue Spring shared the
                         problems that many Owenite communities faced over the gendered system of
                         labor. The Blue Spring constitution is typical: women were allowed to vote
                         on some community matters-issues of membership but not economics-but their
                         labor was centered on traditional household tasks.22
                         Carol Kolmerton's study of women in Owenite communities finds that
                         female members who objected to their workload were deemed disruptive and,
                         in more than one instance (including Blue Spring), blamed for the demise of
                         the community. As Kolmerton observes: "Domestic-service employments
                         were vital for the survival of the community, so that an unquestioned
                         sexual division of labor was extraordinarily useful."23
                    Blue Spring, like most of the Owenite communities that arose in the
                         United
                         States between 1824 and 1828, was short-lived. Its impact upon its
                         members-who dispersed to their private farms and homes- and upon the larger
                         community of south-central Indiana appears to have been equally ephemeral.
                         It is worth remembering, however, as one of the many examples of Robert
                         Owen's influence that took quick root in the soil of the American
                         frontier but soon withered under the many challenges of that life.
                    
                         21Jonathan Nichols and Acquilla Rogers both
                              possessed surveying skills: Nichols surveyed and platted the town of
                                        Bloomington in
                              1818, assisted by Rogers. Robert Hamilton was the owner of a grist
                              mill; Orion Crocker worked as his millwright. Dudley C. Smith and
                              Jonathan Nichols had teaching experience. There is no evidence of
                              work, apart from farming, conducted by other community members.
                              Simons, "A Utopian Failure," 106-107.
                         22See articles 8 and 33.
                         23Carol Kolmerten, "Egalitarian Promises and
                              Inegalitarian Practices: Women's Roles in the American Owenite
                              Communities, 1824-1828," The Journal of General
                                   Education 33 (Spring 1981), 31-44, quote p. 42.
                    
                    
                    
                         CONSTITUTION OF THE BLUE SPRING COMMUNITY FOR THE PROMOTION OF
                              SCIENCE AND INDUSTRY.24

                         We the undersigned believing that the numberless ills which are
                              inflicted on mankind by poverty and ignorance in the individual system
                              of society may be effectually remedied and avoided in future by 
                              adopting the social system of society recommended to the world by Robert
                              Owen do mutually agree hereby to enter into our association of union
                              and cooperation of skills and labour for producing distributing and
                              enjoying the blessings of life in the most advantageous manner and for
                              giving to our posterity a superior education both physically and
                              mentally - and we do adopt and agree to be governed by the following
                              constitution
                         Article 1st This community shall be located
                                   near the Blue Spring in town[ship] eight north range two west in
                                   the county of Monroe and State of Indiana which shall be known by
                                   the name of the Blue Spring Community.
                              Article 2d We the members of the community
                                   shall cooperate by their skill and labor in measures for
                                   procuring distributing and enjoying in the most advantageous
                                   manner a full supply of the necessaries and com- forts of life,
                                   for securing to their children the best physical and mental
                                   education and for gradually raising a fund for repaying the
                                   capital advanced by members and others.
                              Article 3d Members who furnish cash or real
                                   estate for the use of the community shall receive a certifficate
                                   for the same, and those who furnish property of any other
                                   description shall have the same appraised by the committee and
                                   receive a certificate for the amount in other property or release
                                   of the same upon withdrawal according to [a]greement of the
                                   parties.
                              Article 4th Any member wishing to withdraw
                                   from the community shall have liberty to do so at any time by
                                   giving a weeks notice to the committee, and if he or she be a
                                   certificate holder may receive a scrip for the amount baring
                                   interest at six per cent per annum.



                              
                                   24A copy of the original document, as
                                        well as a typed transcript which accompanies the document by
                                        Rodney Smith, is in the "Blue Spring Community"
                                        file, Indiana Room, Monroe County Public Library. The
                                        transcription which appears here was done by the author,
                                        with occasional corrections from the typed
                                        transcript.
                              


                              

                              Article 5th No creditor wishing to withdraw
                                   shall have that right to claim any payment from the community
                                   under the term of five years except by special contract and
                                   whenever the funds of the community are sufficient to liquidate
                                   the debts of itself the money shall be tendered to each
                                   creditor.
                              Article 6th The committies of our arrangement
                                   shall be elected annually by a majority of the members in the
                                   community. They shall consist of odd numbers never less than
                                   three but may be increased to odd numbers according to the
                                   a[d]vice of the community; and the method of election in this
                                   community shall be by ballot.
                              Article 7th All male members eighteen years
                                   and older shall be considered legal actors in all matters
                                   pertaining to the community. Females over eighteen who are heads
                                   of families shall also be considered legal actors and all females
                                   over eighteen may have a voice in the receiving and rejecting
                                   members and all domestic matters of their own concern.
                              Article 8th The Treasurer shall receive all
                                   monies due or belonging to the community, disburse the same on
                                   order signed by the chairman and attested by the secretary,
                                   record all receipts and disbursements in a book kept for that
                                   purpose - and report to the committee weekly.
                              Article 9th The secretary shall keep a regular
                                   detailed statement of the important transactions of the community
                                   and present the same weekly to the committee two of whom shall
                                   examine and keep the same [and?] in their signatures with such
                                   observations as they may deem necessary.
                              Article 10th The books of the community shall
                                   at all times to the inspection of any of the members.
                              Article 11th As it is of the first importance
                                   that the community produce within itself a competency for the
                                   [use/care?] and convenience of all its members there shall be
                                   attached thereto a sufficient quantity of land for agricultural
                                   purposes and also for establishing manufactures and the other
                                   mechanics arts.
                              Article 12th Whenever the capital advanced by
                                   the members and others shall have been repaid all property both
                                   real and personal shall be held and used in common
                                   purposes.
                              Article 13th It shall be the duty of the
                                   committee to form rules and regulations for the government of the
                                   community and for the transactions of the daily business and
                                   submit the same for the reception or rejection of the members
                                   monthly or oftener if deemed necessary for the commu-
                                   nity.


                              



                              Article 14th The business of the community
                                   shall be divided into the following departments. vis: 
                                        1st The erection of buildings and
                                             general improvements
                                        2nd Agriculture and gardening
                                        3d Manufactures and trades
                                        4th Commercial transactions
                                        5th Domestic economy comprehending
                                             the arrangements for heating and ventillating cleaning
                                             and lighting the dwelling houses and public buildings
                                             the arrangements connected with the publick kitchen and
                                             din- ing halls those for the suply of clothing linnen
                                             and furniture for washing and drying and for the
                                             management of the dormitories
                                        6th Health or the superintendance of
                                             the sick including the arrangements to prevent sickness
                                             and contagion
                                        7th Police including the
                                             arrangements of cleaning and lighting the square,
                                             repairing roads and walks guarding against fire and the
                                             protection of the property from external
                                             depredations
                                        8th Education or the formation of
                                             character from infancy. To this department, will belong
                                             the devising of the best means of recreation
                                   
                              Art. 15th The aged widows and orphans shall be
                                   the peculiar care of the community and every relief that kindness
                                   can afford shall be administered.
                              Art 16th That, in regulating the employments
                                   of the members acording to their ages and abilities previous
                                   acquirements and situations in life. The committee shall pay due
                                   regard to the inclinations of each, consistent with the general
                                   good and that each one may if disposed occupy part of his time in
                                   agriculture.
                              Art. 17th That the committee introduces all
                                   modern and scientific improvements for the abridgement of labour
                                   to the greatest possible extent.
                              Art 18th All the memberes of the committe
                                   shall be equal in rights and privileges acording to their
                                   ages.
                              Art 19th As the right education of the rising
                                   generation is under divine Providence the basis on which the
                                   future prosperity and happiness of the community must be founded,
                                   the committee shall employ in this important concern those
                                   individuals whose talents attainments and dispositions render
                                   them best qualifyed for such a charge. The children of the
                                   community shall be educated together as one family in the school
                                         and exercise grounds
                                   provided for them, where they may at all times be under the
                                   inspection of their parents: and that each child may acquire good
                                   habits, and facility in reading and writing -- a knowledge of
                                   arithmetic, the elements of the most useful sciences, including
                                   geography and natural history, a practical knowledge of
                                   agriculture and domestic economy with a knowledge of some one
                                   useful trade or manufacture so that his employment be varyed for
                                   the improvement of his physical and mental powers; and lastly a
                                   knowledge of himself and of human nature to form him into a
                                   rational being and render him charitable benevolent and kind to
                                   all his fellow creatures.
                              Art 20th All the children in the community
                                   shall be entitled to membership by inheritance and when the
                                   members shall become too numerous for our community, a second
                                   shall be formed. The number of individuals in the community shall
                                   not exceed two thousand.
                              Art 21st as liberty of conscience religio[u]s
                                   and mental liberty will be proffessed by every member of this
                                   community, arrangements shall be made to accomodate all
                                   d[en]om[in]ations with convenient places of worship; and it shall
                                   be the duty of each individual to exibit in his whole conduct the
                                   utmost forbearance, kindness and charity towards all who may
                                   differ from him.
                              Art 22nd Every member who wishes to support
                                   the gospel or give anything to the poor, shall be allowed so
                                   much as may be deemed necesary to be appropriated, as he may
                                   think proper.
                              Art 23d The committe shall form arrangement,
                                   by which all the members shall enjoy equal opportunities of
                                   visiting their friends elsewhere, and traveling for improvements,
                                   and other objects.
                              Art 24th Members may receive their friends to
                                   visit them provided they be answerable, that, such visitors
                                   during their stay do not transgress the rules of the
                                   society.
                              Art 25 The use of spiritous liquors shall be
                                   excluded, except when prescr[i]bed as a medicine.
                              Art 26 The society shall not be answerable for
                                   the debts of any member further than the amount of property
                                   advanced by him.
                              Art 27th Every member shall furnish his own
                                   provisions and clothing, house hold furniture and kitchen
                                   furniture for the first year, for which the community shall allow
                                   him a reasonable compensation. And if he have a family, for his
                                   wife and each child sixteen years old and over, he shall receive
                                   a propo[r]tionable compensation as is provided for in  receiving other property. And at
                                   the expiration of the year all of the above described articles
                                   remaining in his possession shall be valued and received into the
                                   stock of the community, except such articles as the family wish
                                   to retain as their own.
                              Art 28th In case of a withdrawel of any of the
                                   members from the community, such gratuity shall be allowed as a
                                   majority of the [word missing] shall agree upon.
                              Art 29th The committee may receive men on
                                   probation; but no person shall be received into full membership;
                                   but by the unanimous consent of all the legal voters present at a
                                   general meeting.
                              Art 30th Persons whose peculiar circumstances
                                   may render it inexpedient for them to be received as members, may
                                   enjoy like comforts and intelectual advantages with the members
                                   and their children enjoy like advantages as the children of the
                                   community.
                              Art 31st If the conduct of any individual be
                                   immoral or injurious to the community, it s[h]all be the duty of
                                   every member to use every argument that kindness can dictate to
                                   reclaim such individual; and in no case shall any members be allo
                                   [w]ed to use reproachful epithets: should this course prove
                                   ineff[ec]tual such offender shall be excluded from the community.
                                   three fourths of the members present at a general meeting
                                   concuring therein.
                              Art 32nd All dealings and transactions with
                                   general society shall be done by the committee or their
                                   authorised agents; provided they make no contracts over a hundred
                                   dollars without the consent of a majority of the members.
                              Art 33d The employment of the female part of
                                   the community shall consist in preparing food and clothing, in
                                   the care of dwelling houses and dormitories, in the management of
                                   washing and drying helping in the education (in part) of the
                                   children, and such other employments as are suited to the female
                                   capacity.
                              Art 34th With regard to domestic consumption
                                   every individual shall be fully supplied with the necessaries of
                                   life.
                              Art 35th Any member of the community who is
                                   apointed guardian and having a child or children a proportionable
                                   part (according to the number of the family) of the money and
                                   property such number may have put into the community.
                              Art 36th Any of the members may propose
                                   amendments or alterations in writing to the committee at the
                                   general meeting which shall lie over  until the next meeting and may then
                                   be adopted by unanimous consent provided vested rights be not
                                   contravened.
                         In witness whereof we have hereunto set our hands this tenth day of
                              April AD 1826
                         In presence of us
                         Isaac Pauley John T. Berry
                         Jonathan Nichols Robert Hamilton John M. Berry Elizabeth
                              Berry Amos CoxJohn A. GivensWilliam BerryHannah
                              BerryRichard B. McCorkleWilliam B. Mary
                         April 15 1826 Orion S. Crocker Philip Rogers Elizabeth
                              Cox Sarah CoxDudley C. Smith Elizabeth Bailey
                              Elisa Nichols Ibby McCorkle
                         May 11 Parker Byford Chesley D. Bailey Acquilla Rogers
                              Sr. James Matlock William B. Ferguson Thomas
                              FullertonPerseus Harris James Bailey William
                              Armstrong
                         Committee of Management William B. May Jonathan Nichols
                              John A. Givens
                         Treasurer Robert Hamilton
                    
               
               
               


                    Teaching Indiana History

                    A Roundtable






                    Each December, the Indiana Historical Society holds its annual Founders Day
                         award ceremony. Watching this winter's proceedings, we noticed—as we
                         do every year—the range and intensity of historical activity, across the
                         state, represented at the event. Amateur and professional historians from
                                   Jasper to Auburn, from Lawrenceburg to Terre
                                   Haute, stood up that night to accept
                         recognition for the museum exhibitions, classroom activities, public
                         history projects, and—in some cases—lifetimes of effort that they have
                         devoted to the cause of researching and sharing the state's historical
                         legacy.
                    The people who do such work—like the people who attend such dinners and the
                         people who read this journal—tend on average to be more seasoned in years
                         than is the general population. The same might be said for historical
                         audiences anywhere—both our desire and our ability to understand the past
                         grow naturally with age. But we also wondered to what extent the
                         particular notion of a distinctive "Indiana history"—still so
                         vital to many older Hoosiers—continues to compel this state's young
                         people beyond their forced exposure to the subject in fourth grade. Wrapped
                         around this question is a larger one: does "Indiana" continue to
                         provide a meaningful marker of common identity at a time when people, jobs,
                         ideas, and images move about with little respect for traditional political
                         boundaries?
                     A sampling of scholars teaching in the state's colleges and
                         universities suggests that historians, at least, think so.
                                   Indiana history, as we confirmed in the
                         weeks following the ceremony, lives on as a topic of study in the
                         university classroom. We asked a few of the historians who teach  such classes to assess the study of
                                   Indiana history—how it has changed, how
                         they encourage it in their own classes, how it can continue to represent a
                         meaningful scholarly challenge for the twenty-first-century student. What
                         follows is the transcription of an online discussion carried out from
                         January 12 to February 4, 2011, among four scholars who teach
                                   Indiana history in the college classroom.
                         Participating were Bruce Bigelow, Professor of Geography, Butler
                         University; Nicole Etcheson, Alexander M. Bracken Professor of History,
                         Ball State University; Jason Lantzer, Adjunct Professor of History, Butler
                         University and IUPUI; and James H. Madison, Thomas and Kathryn Miller
                         Professor of History, Indiana University Bloomington. The dialogue has been
                         edited for length and clarity.

                    IMH: I'd like to give everyone an opportunity to
                         describe their Indiana history classes. What do you call your class, how
                         long have you taught it, what are its distinctive features?

                    Jason Lantzer: My class is officially the "Survey of
                         Indiana History," but I simply call it "Indiana History." I
                         have taught the class, both in the classroom (since 2005) and as a distance
                         learning course (since 1999). Despite the course title, the topic
                         apparently surprised one student recently, who commented on his course
                         evaluation that I was "obviously biased" towards Indiana!
                    Because it's a survey, I cover the length and breadth of Indiana 
                         history—from its pre-history to the present. I tend to focus on politics a
                         good deal, though we also highlight religion, reform, and race. Students
                         tend to enjoy our discussions on the Civil War and the Klan, of course, and
                         I'm going to be adding a new lecture on eugenics this semester.

                    James H. Madison: Like Jason, I teach a course whose
                         official title is "Survey of Indiana History," and I too call it
                         "Indiana History." I first taught the class in 1977. What I
                         consider distinctive is how much the class has changed over the years—as I
                         learned more, as students changed, as the relationship between past and
                         present has changed. Recently, I've tried especially to do more with
                         the last fifty years and to connect the recent past with earlier pasts.

                    Nicole Etcheson: At Ball State, the course is called
                         "History of Indiana." I started teaching it in 2006. Although I
                         had completed my PhD on a midwestern history topic at Indiana University
                         under Jim Madison, my  jobs had been
                         outside the state until six years ago. Hence, I didn't have the
                         oportunity to teach Indiana history until recently. Like Jason, I cover a
                         period from pre-history to fairly close to the present. I try for a balance
                         of political and social history. Probably the course's most
                         distinctive feature is that our readings consist of primary sources and
                         novels rather than historical monographs. After each novel, the students
                         write a "What Is a Hoosier?" paper. The purpose of these short
                         papers is to get them to think about state and regional identity.

                    Bruce Bigelow: I have taught "Indiana and the
                         Midwest" three times. I concentrate on Indiana, but I also discuss
                         regional history. The course begins with Native Americans, but I
                         concentrate on the Civil War, industrialization, the Klan, and race. I use
                         fiction, especially novels, in the class as well as historical case
                         studies. I do a module on Chicago because it is the regional capital and
                         Butler University has a large cohort of suburban Chicago students.

                    IMH: One hundred years ago, writers like George Cottman
                         seemed almost desperately concerned to rescue old documents, capture
                         pioneer memories, and generally to instill Hoosiers with a pride in the
                         history of this state. The fact that you all teach your Indiana history
                         classes makes me feel that you believe there is still a uniquely
                         "Indiana" history worth knowing—and perhaps still a uniquely
                         Hoosier identity that grows from that history.
                    In this global age, do state boundaries still make sense—either as meaningful
                         markers of historical content or as defining boundaries of a common set of
                         continuing cultural and social traits? And if so, what do you want your
                         students to consider as the essence of the Indiana experience?

                    
                         NE: Having lived in Texas for almost a
                         decade, I don't think Indiana has as profound a
                         sense of state identity. Maybe no one can match the Texans for that. But I
                         do think it's possible to identify elements of a Hoosier, and a
                         broader midwestern, identity.
                    In the class, however, I want the students to come to an idea of the
                         "essence of the Indiana experience" for themselves. There are
                         themes that I emphasize as important in Indiana history: the southernness
                         of the state's settlers; the conservative nature of the state's
                         politics, not just recently but throughout Indiana's history; and
                         Hoosiers' troubling history of race relations—from William Henry
                         Harrison's efforts to force 
                         slavery into the territory up through the period of the Ku Klux Klan and
                         beyond.
                    But the "What Is a Hoosier?" exercises allow students to bring
                         together the novels, primary sources, and lecture materials to posit their
                         own thesis about what Indiana's essence might be. At the beginning of
                         the semester, the students' gut reaction is mostly that a Hoosier is a
                         Colts fan. I tell them that I can remember when the Colts moved here from
                         Baltimore, and someone interviewed on television said he wished
                         Indianapolis had at least stolen a good team. My point is that certain
                         parts of what they consider important to the state are relatively recent in
                         historical terms-perhaps even ephemeral. Some of the students will, in
                         their papers, discuss parochialism and racism as Hoosier traits; others
                         will emphasize self-reliance, industry, family, and community. Most
                         importantly, I hope to get them thinking about Hoosier identity and what it
                         might be.

                    BB: As a historical cultural geographer, I am very much
                         concerned about the issue of culture regions and their unique identity. I
                         do think that Indiana is in a distinct
                         region-namely, the Lower Midwest. The area would include central and
                         southern Ohio and Illinois as well as Indiana. The
                         area is a mixture of Border Southerners and Midlanders from
                                   Pennsylvania, as well as
                         later immigrants from Europe and blacks from the South. It is an area that
                         is conservative Protestant with a Roman Catholic minority, and is
                         politically conservative, whether Republican or Democratic. Within the
                         Lower Midwest, Indiana can be defined as a
                         sub-region. I believe that Americans still identify with their state
                         because their knowledge is circumscribed to a degree by state borders; they
                         also identify with one of their major state universities, both as the home
                         to their favorite sports teams and as a place to attend in favor of a
                         university in a neighboring state.
                    I am not sure that the essence of the Hoosier experience would be very
                         different from that of similar portions of Ohio and
                                   Illinois, except that those states have
                         major northern cities which are very different from their
                         "downstates." Indiana has no
                                   Cleveland or
                                   Chicago to compromise its
                         Southernness. In my course, which includes the Midwest generally as well as
                                   Indiana, students have read novels by
                         Edward Eggleston (The Hoosier Schoolmaster), Booth
                         Tarkington (The
                         Magnificent Ambersons and Alice Adams), and Dan
                         Wakefield (Going All the
                         Way), essays by Meredith Nicholson, poems by James Whitcomb Riley,
                         Middletown by the Lynds, and James Madison's account of the horror of
                         the 1930   lynching in
                         Marion (A
                         Lynching in the Heartland). From these readings, my students probably
                         gather that the essence of Indiana
                         history is rural and small-city living, socioeconomic class division, the
                         automobile industry, anti-black racism, and conservative religion and
                         politics. On the other hand, there are obviously people and places in the
                         state that challenge these assumptions; Indiana is
                         contested space in which glib generalizations can be countered by
                         antithetical examples.
                    In conclusion, I believe there is a distinct Hoosier identity for those who
                         grow up in Indiana (though not for recent
                         in-migrants), with the exception of the northwestern portion of the state
                         (The Region), which is more a part of Chicagoland. However, it is difficult to
                         talk about an essential "Indiana" experience that is unique from the rest
                         of the lower Midwest, at least, and possibly a larger part of
                         America.

                    JL: Let me try to answer this question in two ways that are
                         far from mutually exclusive. The first is as a native-born Hoosier. I can
                         honestly say that I've always felt a specific Hoosier identity.
                         Perhaps this comes from having relatives (and traveling to see them often)
                         in Kentucky. That is to say, I always had a
                         sense of being "from" a specific place (Indiana) and "not from" another,
                         despite familial ties. That sense of Hoosier identity was perhaps
                         reinforced by being from northern Indiana
                                   (Elkhart County), as well. We were not part
                         of The Region, nor part of either the Fort
                              Wayne or Indianapolis metro regions.
                                   South Bend (save for
                         Notre Dame football) held little allure. Nor, despite constant news
                         broadcasts were we really part of Michiana (southwestern lower
                         Michigan/northern Indiana) either. We were
                         Hoosiers, and the northern state boundary for us was just as important as
                         the southern one in defining who I was in terms of my state
                         affiliation.
                    Now, one could argue that this is more about defining yourself by who you are
                         not than it is by who you are, but I'd say that my experience never
                         cast those other areas in a negative light per se. Rather, I felt that
                         there was never anything wrong with being from where I was from-no reason
                         to look down upon it, surely—and many reasons to be proud of what was and
                         what could be.
                    Having had the opportunity to live in the three classic regions of the state,
                         I think the old south, central, and north distinctions still hold a good
                         deal of weight. But I also think—and here comes the more professional,
                         academic side of my answer—that Hoosiers (whether native-born or of more
                         recent vintage) don't often know enough of their own past (good or
                         bad) to take pride in either the real accomplishments or in  the progress that has been made in issues
                         like race. I've encountered native Hoosiers (in both Indiana History
                         and U.S. History surveys) who are shocked to learn of Indiana's Golden
                         Age (in both politics and in literature), and who are more apt to assume
                         an almost "flyover" attitude towards their home state—if it
                         didn't or doesn't happen on the coasts, then it must not have
                         mattered. But I've also found that if you spend some time linking
                         Indiana's story to wider (whether regional or national) stories
                         (putting things in a Hoosier context), those same students also come around
                         a bit to thinking that maybe Indiana isn't such a bad place either to
                         be from or to live in.
                    So, in conclusion, yes, I think there is a Hoosier identity. Is it as
                         distinct as Nicole's experience in Texas? Probably not! But it is
                         there, if somewhat below the surface, and for all our midwestern
                         commonalities, it is also different from what one sees in residents of our
                         neighboring states—just as Indiana's experiences have been different.
                         On the other hand, I might argue some days that we aren't exactly
                         unique. At these times, I'm inclined to think instead that Hoosiers
                         offer a rather good reflection of the nation as a whole-warts and all.

                    JHM: This is getting serious! The answer is "mostly
                         yes": there is a place called Indiana and a people who call themselves
                         Hoosiers. In class I use the old notion of an imagined community—the
                         ability of so many people who have never met face-to-face to feel
                         nonetheless some connections, and at times to act on those
                         connections.
                    To understand this particular imagined community it's very important
                         that my students understand the migration and cultural patterns of the
                         pioneer era, the distinctive mix of Upland South pioneers with 
                         mid-Atlantic and New England newcomers. I still think that themes raised by
                         earlier scholars such as Richard Power and James Bergquist—and revised more
                         recently by Nicole, Bruce, and others—are foundational and remain
                         significant in the twenty-first century. Somehow in all that mixing there
                         developed a distinctive Indiana, different from
                         Texas (thank goodness!) and
                         even from Ohio, Michigan,
                         or Kentucky.
                    Of course whatever we think might be Hoosier identity is challenged by
                         alternatives and contradictions. I spend a lot of time in class on
                         "the others"-cases of people and ideas outside the mainstream,
                         including Rappites, abolitionists, and rebels like Eugene Debs.
                         Surprisingly, basketball is another great subject with which to challenge
                         the mainstream and to goad students into thinking. I always proclaim that
                         Oscar Robertson is the greatest Hoosier player ever. And then we  think about the Crispus Attucks High
                         School team. Last semester I assigned an essay that challenged the Milan
                         miracle.
                    I also work to help students see the changing and contested purpose of
                         state and township government, from 1816 forward. Here, too, there is an
                         Indiana identity, too often taken for granted. Richard Longworth is on a
                         crusade to diminish the midwestern states as governmental units by
                         substituting extensive regional organizations and partnerships. It's
                         a quixotic idea because Hoosiers will never give up state control—even in
                         response to relatively uncontroversial proposals such as a regional,
                         multi-state tourist organization.
                    I hope to teach Indiana history in a way that respects the state and its
                         culture and also challenges it. I want students to consider the 
                         possibility that some of the central—even celebrated—Hoosier traits may be
                         outdated. I hope they will question the sense of complacency that 
                         produces such Hoosier wisdom that "if it ain't broke don't fix
                         it," or that "good enough is good enough." So, I pay more
                         attention to the last half-century and to the challenges of education, to
                         the methamphetamine crisis, to the withering of small towns, to the passing
                         of high-paying and secure jobs in auto plants. Of course, reading
                         Tarkington's Magnificent Ambersons, which I often assign, helps us
                         understand that change is nothing new in Indiana, even if it has been more
                         evolutionary than revolutionary (a concept my students have abundant
                         opportunities to consider).
                    This imagined community of Hoosiers may not be as strong now as it was a
                         hundred years ago. It's interesting, however, that organizers of the
                         1916 state centennial were also anxious about Indiana's identity in
                         their rapidly changing age. Our next big challenge is preparing for the
                         2016 bicentennial. Among the outcomes of that celebration, I hope, will be
                         new ways to think about and to teach Indiana history, from the fourth grade
                         to colleges.

                    IMH: I'd like to pick up on Jim's challenge that
                         we consider "new ways to think about and to teach Indiana
                         history." You propose this goal, Jim, as an outcome of the 2016
                         bicentennial observance, so I hope you will all forgive me if I pop the
                         cork a bit early and put you on the spot right now. We can call it our
                         celebration of the 195th anniversary of state-hood.
                    Specifically: What needs to happen next—whether in fourth grade, high school,
                         or the college classroom? What ideas, questions, voices, skills do we need
                         to add to the mix to ensure that Indiana History classes  not only remain in our schools and
                         universities, but actually become the site of some of our most interesting
                         and daring teaching and learning experiences? Put differently, if you had
                         all the resources and all the energy you needed, what would the Indiana
                         History curriculum of the future look like?

                    NE: For guidance on the future of Indiana history, I turned
                         to my colleagues Ronald V. Morris and Dorshell Stewart. Ron and Dorshell
                         are the elementary social studies education experts in Ball State's
                         history department. Ron has published extensively on teaching elementary
                         students (most recently in 2010, The Field Trip Book: Study Travel
                         Experiences in Society Studies) and Dorshell taught fourth grade in
                         Gary
                         before entering academia.
                    I'll start with Ron's quip that it would be nice if we taught
                         Indiana history in fourth grade. He joked that the students might get
                         "fifteen minutes on Friday afternoon after the fire drill."
                         Because it's not emphasized on the ISTEP test that students take in
                         fifth grade, and because the teachers are tasked to cover so much material
                         they know will be tested, Indiana history coverage is skimpy. When I was
                         growing up in Indiana, we took Indiana History in seventh grade, but Ron
                         tells me this is no longer the case. (All I remember learning about is
                         Tecumseh.) So he would like to see the subject revisited in junior high or
                         high school, where students are capable of thinking about the issues in
                         more sophisticated ways than they can in fourth grade. Elementary
                         students may not be ready to discuss controversies in Indiana history. At
                         one workshop, a teacher asked about how to deal with the 1920s Klan with
                         her students.
                    Dorshell emphasized—and Ron affirmed—that as teachers, they felt constrained
                         by the limitations of material. They both felt there were limited
                         sources—secondary and primary—available to teach young students. With
                         dwindling budgets, field trips are disappearing. Dorshell remarked that she
                         would do more with online field trips that allow students to access
                         historical sites on the Internet. Ron talked about having students work
                         backward—and I might try this in my college course. They have accessible
                         sources in Indiana history: parents, grandparents, neighbors. Start with
                         oral histories of the recent past and then work towards the earlier
                         eras.
                    Part of the reason I like Ron's idea is that I'm increasingly
                         uncomfortable with Indiana history's fascination with the pioneer
                         period. Let me say that I love log cabins—like Daniel Webster, I was not
                         born in one, but I've made many a pilgrimage to them. But I find my
                         college students too glibly saying
                         that Hoosiers are hardy pioneer types, eliding a full century of different
                         migratory streams, industrialization, and myriad social and political
                         controversies that have marked Indiana's past. The pioneer past is
                         also exclusionary: if the Hoosier is a descendant of these pioneers, can
                         Hispanics, Asian immigrants, my Polish American nephews, or African
                         Americans be "real" Hoosiers? Perhaps if the college students
                         began my "What Is a Hoosier?" exercise with their grandparents,
                         they would produce a broader, more contemporary, more accurate picture of
                         Hoosiers and their history

                    BB: I will let others talk about elementary and secondary
                         teaching of Indiana history. With regard to the future of teaching state
                         history in college, I will discuss ideas, questions, and voices. (I
                         confess to thinking aloud about these topics with George Geib of Butler
                         University and Randy Mills of Oakland City University before responding to
                         the questions.)
                    In terms of ideas, I'd like to see more discussion of Indiana during the past thirty years, an era of
                         heightened globalization. Students could consider deindustrialization and
                         the drastic weakening of the automobile industry. Take a stroll through
                         downtown Anderson—it looks like a
                         bomb hit the area. Downtown Kokomo
                         and Marion also look "shaggy." We
                         need case studies (articles or books) of the change that has occurred in
                         places like these. On the other hand, we should study the success stories
                         of growth poles like Bloomington,
                         West Lafayette, and
                         Carmel to give a
                         balanced account of globalization in Indiana.
                         Another aspect of globalization would be a study of the large Latino
                         migration to Indiana in the past 30
                         years.
                    With regard to questions, I consider one of the most important to be the
                         degree to which a Hoosier identity means anything these days. Certainly, a
                         state identity based on the pioneers and local color nineteenth-century
                         writers seems far removed today. On the other hand, it is maintained by the
                         professional and collegiate sports teams, especially for basketball.
                         Histories of the programs at IU, Purdue, and Butler could be included as a
                         module in a college course. Another option for resuscitating state
                         identity would be to have students recover more of the "sacred
                         texts" of Hoosier identity. As I mentioned earlier, I have used early
                         Indiana literature in my course, with great success.
                    As to voices, I think, first, we should emphasize more minority voices-racial
                         and religious. I have in mind Tecumseh and the Prophet; Wes Montgomery,
                         Oscar Robertson, and Darryl Pinckney; and Theodore  Hesburgh. Second, students should also hear
                         more of the voices of significant politicians: from Oliver Morton, Eugene
                         Debs, and Albert Beveridge to Richard Hatcher, William Hudnut, and Richard
                         Lugar.
                    I am arguing for two things here: an extension of the course forward by
                         studying in more depth the changes in Indiana in the past 30 years, but
                         also the act of recovery for those who have forgotten the major writers,
                         politicians, and other important Hoosiers of the more distant past.

                    JHM: Nicole is right about the necessity of expanding our
                         teaching of Indiana history beyond the fourth grade. I
                         doubt circumstances will allow us to introduce new history classes into a
                         hard-pressed curriculum and an environment of narrow, standardized testing.
                         Some teachers are able to incorporate more Indiana
                         subject matter into general U.S. history classes at
                         the middle and high school levels. Instead of teaching the Erie Canal, we can teach
                         the Wabash and Erie
                         Canal; instead of Boston's Sacco and Vanzetti case we
                         can teach our own Ku Klux Klan. There are also local history subjects in
                         every community that can connect to state and national standards.
                    I think there are two primary means for bringing more and better Indiana
                         history to classrooms at all levels. First, remember that all teaching
                         begins with the teacher; we need more teachers to be better prepared and
                         enthusiastic to teach Indiana subject matter. Among the best ways to do
                         that, I think, is through summer workshops that focus on content. Workshops
                         would include reading and discussing lots of primary sources, as well as
                         the best of secondary sources, such as essays from the Indiana Magazine of
                         History. They would include hands-on exploration of the varieties of
                         subject matter, method, sources, and delivery to be found in historical
                         study.
                    The second step would be to strengthen, enlarge, and make more accessible the
                         content itself. The IMH has made good progress. So have the Indiana
                         Historical Society, the Indiana Supreme Court, and numerous other
                         institutions. But the busy classroom teacher struggles to make sense of all
                         the opportunities and to bring them into the classroom. Coordination of
                         what is now online would help greatly. So would adding new digital
                         materials. Many teachers would welcome sophisticated and thoughtful units
                         on the best subject matter that connect to core U.S.
                         history issues and bring the range of primary sources to the classroom.
                    Finally, Nicole and Bruce are right about the challenges of pioneer
                         domination. The state's history needs a foundation, and I think
                         that's to  be found in the pioneer
                         era. We need to improve our understanding of the varieties of pioneers, as
                         for example, teaching about the pioneer black communities like Lyles
                         Station and Roberts Settlement. But the changes since 1850 are just as
                         important. So are changes since 1950. Bruce's call for a more
                         globalized Indiana history is critical. I've recently been working on
                         the last hundred years of the auto industry in the state. In that one
                         subject, among several others, can be found superb connections between
                         past and present and core issues in Indiana, U.S., and world history.

                    JL: Ah, so many good ideas! While it has been awhile since
                         my own fourth-grade Indiana History experience (though I have nothing but
                         good memories of the "yellow book," the unit flash cards, and the
                         various projects—including making a spear out of my mother's new
                         broom, which didn't go over very well!), let me echo what others have
                         said. It would indeed be nice if there was more coverage later on—if, in
                         short, instruction in Indiana history was built up from elementary to
                         middle to high school. Whether those later classes would be more
                         "unit" based, or just available as potential social studies
                         offerings (especially at the high school level), I'm not sure. The
                         obvious first step would be to at least force a conversation at the State
                         House as to why Indiana History isn't included
                         as part of ISTEP—and not rest until a real answer is given or real change takes place.
                    The other requirement for moving forward in our teaching (at all levels) is
                         obviously to make more material available and to let more people know
                         about it. I'm referring not just to teachers, but to the community
                         at large, including the growing home-school community. Short of achieving
                         an ISTEP revolution, perhaps the surest way to reach Hoosiers about the
                         importance of their history is to convince school boards that it
                         matters.
                    As for how to teach (at the college level) in the future, I don't fret
                         the pioneer domination. It is a hook to draw students in. One of the things
                         I do try, while following the usual chronological path, is to move both
                         forward and back in time. Talking about Native Americans, for example,
                         opens ourselves up to discussing why Hoosiers have opted to name so many
                         things after the tribes they displaced, why schools and sports teams (from
                         the Indianapolis Indians to school teams)
                         are named after them—even why we've moved away from doing so recently.
                         No matter how you teach it, helping students to make connections between
                         the past and their present is the important  thing. In short, I'm not worried about
                         the future of Indiana History. I'm as
                         excited about it as I am about the past that I try to convey to my students
                         whenever I get the chance.
               


               

               
                    REVIEWS



                    Maria's JourneyBy Ramon Arredondo and Trisha Hull Arredondo
                         (Indianapolis: Indiana Historical Society Press, 2010. Pp. [xvii],
                         260. Illustrations, chart, map. Paperbound, $19.95.)


                    In 1932, Paul Schuster Taylor, a rural sociologist from the University of
                         California at Berkeley, published his now classic study Mexican Labor in the United States: Chicago and the Calumet
                              Region. At about the same time that Taylor was working in the
                         Calumet region, Mexican anthropologist Manuel Gamio was completing Mexican
                         Immigration to the United States (1930), a
                         penetrating work that was the first to document the connections between
                         emigrant-sending areas in Mexico and immigrant
                         destinations and settlements across the United
                              States. In a second book, The
                              Mexican Immigrant: His Life Story (1931), Gamio presented a
                         pioneering ethnographic account from interviews of Mexican immigrants
                         living in the U.S., some in the same places where Taylor
                         was conducting his field studies.
                    There is no reason to suspect that these researchers from the first decades
                         of the twentieth century would have known Maria and Miguel Arredondo,
                         immigrants from hard-scrabble Guanajuato, Mexico, who were struggling to
                         make a better life for themselves, their ten children, and one
                         mother-in-law in East Chicago, Indiana. Yet the Arredondos were living
                         the very life that the sociologist Taylor and the anthropologist Gamio
                         sought to document in their studies.
                    Maria's Journey is part memoir and part family biography, told by Ramon
                         Arredondo, the second youngest of the children, and his wife Trisha Hull
                         Arredondo. As historian James Lane remarks in his foreword, the work is a
                         reliable case study of Mexican family dynamics and Mexican immigrant
                         experience to the Calumet region. It follows Miguel and Maria from what
                         Taylor and Gamio called the West Mexico sending region-centered
                         on the states of Michoacan,
                         Jalisco, and
                         Guanajua-to-north across the border at Nuevo Laredo-Laredo and deep into
                         the core  of the American industrial
                         heartland, first to Chicago and then to Harbor Island, Indiana. There they face the inevitable issues
                         of employment security and citizenship that confronted so many of their
                         fellow immigrants; Maria is forced to return to Mexico while Miguel remains
                         to work in the steel mills that were the economic salvation for so many
                         Mexicanos who ventured al norte during the chaos of the Mexican Revolution
                         at home.
                    The account also offers a testimonial of the lives and upbringing of the
                         Arredondo children. An important sidebar in the family chronicle—one
                         that contrasted with similar Mexican immigrant accounts grounded in the
                         experience of migrant farm labor—is Miguel's role as an urban labor
                         activist and champion of the local union. This passion is passed on to one
                         son who becomes a leader in the union.
                    But the heart and soul of the memoir, extending over decades to the present,
                         resides in Maria, the mother who holds the family together through stern
                         conviction, faith, and a persistent will. Her story is a drama that will be
                         recognized by many readers of immigrant ancestry who have lived the same
                         experience as children of such a matriarch. And that may be the book's
                         most important contribution. Through their telling, the Arredondos present
                         a compelling example of the lives documented by scholars like Taylor and
                         Gamio. Maria's Journey is a welcome addition to the larger story of
                         the Mexican immigrant experience because it offers us a view from within,
                         not only adding flesh to the bone of leaner academic texts, but revealing
                         the spirit and drive along with the disappointments and sorrows of
                         immigration that are in some ways unique to the Mexican experience in
                         America and in others universal to migrant
                         stories around the world.
                    Maria's Journey reveals how the immigrant experience, passed through
                         several generations, has transformed Mexicans into Americans of Mexican
                         descent. That story is not simply history; it is a living experience
                         still unfolding in cities and towns across America.

                    DANIEL D. ARREOLA is a professor at the School of Geographical Sciences
                         and Urban Planning at Arizona State University. He is author of Tejano
                         South Texas: A Mexican-American Cultural Province (2002), and Hispanic
                         Spaces, Latino Places: Community and Cultural Diversity in Contemporary
                         America (2004). Arreola is presently a research fellow at the Clements
                         Center for Southwest Studies at Southern Methodist University where he is
                         completing a visual history of Mexican border towns.
               

               
               
                    Butler's Big Dance The Team, The Tournament, and Basketball
                         Fever By Susan S. Neville (Bloomington: Indiana University Press,
                         2010. Pp. xx, [90]. Illustrations. Paperbound, $14.95.)


                    The last two springs have come into Indiana riding a bright blue Butler
                         basketball bus. You probably feel you have read the Butler story told in
                         every hue possible, but you haven't. You have primarily read sports
                         writers, people like me. In this book, Susan S. Neville, a native Hoosier
                         and a professor of creative writing at Butler, elevates the chronicle to
                         new heights.
                    Neville is the author of four books, none of which likely brightens any
                         sports library. She and others taught classes, as usual, when things were
                         not at all usual on the small Indianapolis university's campus—when
                         college basketball's 2010 Final Four phenomenon was played out about
                         five miles from campus, and hitherto bit player Butler was its surprise
                         star.
                    At just about the time Ms. Neville's book was coming into bookstores
                         extending once-in-a-lifetime adoration to Butler's 2010 tournament
                         run, the 2011 Bulldogs were re-astounding the college basketball world by
                         making a second straight run all the way to the national championship game.
                         Hers surely was, at worst, a merry melancholy when the second lightning
                         strike emanated from her campus before she had properly introduced us to,
                         for example, Pam, the mailroom operator whose motherly charm blossomed in
                         the maelstrom of 2010. Pam talked of rushing out t-shirts "by the ones
                         and twelves and hundreds ... to New York,
                         South Carolina, Alaska,
                         Texas, Florida,
                         overseas—the most insane thing I ever saw in my life" (p. 24). This
                         was a lady who knew every player, and who, in her hyperactivity, told Ms.
                         Neville: "We can never have another ride like this year. It's
                         incredible that you only get to bloom for one season" (p. 24).
                         Everyone knew this truth, and everyone was wrong. So the magic that Neville
                         captured became a two-time wonder, no less "mythopoetic" (her
                         perfect descriptive word) than the time before.
                    The author writes from within a rare college campus where students—and even
                         some players—actually went to class the day of the national championship
                         game; where a professor—during the Syracuse game that started the
                         '10 Bulldogs down their path to the Sweet Sixteen—had a group of
                         students in a seminar room "studying Althusser's essay
                         'Ideology of the Ideological State Apparatus'" (p. 15). At
                         the class break, the professor realized the game would be in its second
                         half, so the group stopped to watch it to the end, then regathered and
                         pondered, in light of the essay and what they had seen during the break,
                         "how does college basketball help to reproduce culture, how does it
                         serve as an ideological  apparatus
                         that helps us reproduce the exploitation and power dynamics of
                         capitalism?" (p. 18)
                    Neville is a Hoosier. She spent some adult time in New Castle, when Steve
                         Alford mania was in flower. She followed Indiana University's 
                         tournament successes, before and during Alford's years there. She absorbed
                         Butler's past as the daughter of a BU alumnus, and writes
                         appreciatively of the "Butler Way," with its Tony Hinkle roots,
                         Barry Collier regeneration, and Brad Stevens full-flowering. She quotes an
                         unidentified alumna: "I cried when they went to the Final Four, after
                         they beat Kansas State ... (and) I cried after the championship game."
                         Butler lost that game to Duke, when Gordon Hayward's potentially
                         game-winning three-point shot bounced off the backboard and rim. "I
                         was so sad, but after walking home from Lucas Oil (Stadium) I got over it.
                         After I saw how close that last shot had been on ESPN, I flipped out again.
                         Day to day, every once in a while, it hits me" (p. 26).
                    In the eye of so happy and unforeseeable a hurricane, a little overstatement
                         isn't sinful, but: "Before this tournament, there were two big
                         moments in Indiana basketball. The first was in 1954 when Milan upset
                         Muncie Central. The second was in 1955 when Oscar Robertson led Crispus
                         Attucks to the state title. This tournament is now number three" (p.
                         36). Whoa! Five national championship banners that wave in Bloom- ington,
                         and a high school legacy that stretches from Homer Stonebraker through
                         Fuzzy Vandivier, Johnny Wooden, Bill Garrett, Rick Mount, George McGinnis,
                         and Damon Bailey, among others, would suggest that Hoosierland's
                         "big moment" basketball list is a lot longer than that. But if
                         this be blasphemy, professor, make the most of it, while border-to-border
                         Indiana is still echoing with chants of "Go, Blue!"

                    BOB HAMMEL was an Indiana sports writer for
                         forty-two years, the last thirty in Bloomington. He covered twenty-three NCAA Final
                         Four tournaments, including those won by Indiana University in 1976,
                         '81 and '87. He is the author or co-author of eleven books, eight
                         of them on IU or Indiana high school
                         basketball.
               

               
                    Lessons in Likeness Portrait Painters in Kentucky and the Ohio River
                    Valley, 1802-1920 By Estill Curtis Pennington
                         (Lexington:
                         University Press of Kentucky, 2010. Pp. xxiii, 252. Illustrations,
                         appendix, notes, bibliography, index. $50.00.)


                    This book might well have been entitled Painting Life in the
                              Interior South, so far (and so successfully) does it range beyond
                                   Kentucky portraiture. Up until now, much
                         more effort has been spent on centers of artistic production east of the Appalachians, with the exception
                         of New Orleans. Estill Pennington takes us
                         over the mountains, or more accurately, down the Ohio River, to access
                         these southern hinterlands—the destination, he argues, of a considerable
                         number of artists after the Revolutionary War, who sought patronage among
                         the growing communities of Kentucky
                         and in newly minted states downriver. Along the way, Pennington manages to
                         cover artists working in Ohio and Tennessee as well as those who, continuing down
                         to the Mississippi, stopped in Natchez
                         and New Orleans.
                    For all that, Pennington keeps his eye primarily on Kentucky, not only as a
                         scholar compiling artistic activity in the state from 1802 to 1920 (that
                         is, from John James Audubon to Frank Duveneck), but also as a theorist of
                         portrait painting. Wary of past treatments of ancestral likenesses that
                         have either been immersed in "formidable oral histories," or
                         treated their subjects as examples of one period style or another,
                         Pennington wants us to understand Kentucky portraiture as a
                         "lesson" that links individual sitters to an informed social
                         and cultural context.
                    The book is essentially (and helpfully) divided into two sections, the first
                         a historical overview featuring major artists who were native Kentuckians
                         or who, passing through the state, left a considerable mark on local
                         portrait painters. Readers acquainted with artists working in the East
                         between 1802 and the Civil War, for example, may be surprised to find that
                         Pennington's inventory includes not only Audubon but Matthew Harris
                         Jewett, William Edward West, Chester Harding, John Wesley Jarvis, Oliver
                         Frazer, John Neagel, John Wood Dodge, George Caleb Bingham, a number of
                         talented Thomas Sully students, and G. P. A. Healey. But as Pennington
                         moves into the twentieth century (concluding his survey with John Bernard
                         Albers, an artist too little known outside Louisville) he broadens the scope of
                         his narrative to include the impact of photography and the Civil War on
                         local artists and the retrospective concerns of later patrons who were
                         dedicated to collecting and publishing a succession of images that more or
                         less endorsed their community standing.
                    In the second part of his book, Pennington presents a more straightforward
                         catalog of artists active in Kentucky
                         (including some who had crossed the river to Cincinnati) through 1920. Each entry
                         delivers selective biographical information about artist and sitter,
                         especially those who, like famed orator Henry Clay, played an active role
                         in Kentucky politics and cultural life. But
                         many others also appear; the catalog is meant to provide an exhaustive
                         record of local artistic activity accompanied by useful remarks on the
                         style and content of the works illustrated.
                    Missing from the remarks, however, and to some extent lacking in the
                         introductory chapters, is a collective definition of Kentucky
                          portraiture, or at least a set of
                         questions that might lead one to ask what it shares with the art of other
                         frontier areas in the South. One thing seems fairly certain: little of the
                         frontier is evident in any of these images. More often, artists and sitters
                         are anxious to project cultural refinements that probably were still on
                         their way from the East. Portraits of Daniel Boone feature him as a
                         backwoods hero, but most artists aimed higher. Those who did were perhaps
                         intrigued by Kentucky's growing
                         reputation as the seat of the Old South ("My Old Kentucky Home"),
                         and mindful of a slave-owning aristocracy that remained a de facto presence
                         in the state long after the end of the Civil War. Pennington is a
                         particularly good detective on this subject, able to recognize the visual
                         subterfuges employed by white artists on behalf of white sitters still
                         committed to the "lost cause." Indeed, my final tribute to the
                         author of this book—a native Kentuckian—concerns his handling of such
                         issues. Perhaps because he grew up in a world of outmoded racial
                         conventions, he knows instinctively where to look for them. And he knows
                         equally well how to unmask them, with intelligence and discretion.

                    WILLIAM H. TRUETTNER is Senior Curator of Painting and Sculpture at
                         the Smithsonian American Art Museum.
               

               
                    Murder and MadnessThe Myth of the Kentucky TragedyBy Matthew
                         G. Schoenbachler (Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 2009. Pp.
                         xii, 371. Illustrations, notes, index. $35.00.)


                    Matthew Schoenbachler has written a fascinating account of an episode from
                         the history of the early American republic. A story of seduction, murder,
                         and suicide, the "Kentucky Tragedy" has all the ingredients for a
                         first-rate microhistory, and this is what Schoenbachler has produced,
                         significantly enriching our understanding of a complex period in the
                         history of a state, Kentucky, where complexity seems to have been the order
                         of the day.
                    The episode that became known as the Kentucky Tragedy involved the 1825
                         murder of one of the state's most prominent political figures, Solomon
                         Sharpe, by Jereboam Beauchamp, a young attorney. Some years earlier, Sharpe
                         had been accused of seducing Anna Cooke, who subsequently delivered a
                         stillborn child. Cooke later met Beauchamp, and the two married in 1824. In
                         1825, in the midst of a hard-fought state election, the seduction charge
                         resurfaced, and a rumor began to circulate that Sharpe had claimed the baby
                         could not have been his because it had been a mulatto. Enraged, the
                         Beauchamps plotted  revenge, and, on a
                         November night, Jereboam went to Sharpe's home and committed the
                         murder.
                    Arrested, tried, and convicted, Beauchamp was sentenced to hang. Anna joined
                         him in his dungeon cell, where together they composed an elaborate
                         Confession intended to justify what they had done. Then, as
                         Beauchamp's execution approached, they attempted suicide, first by
                         taking laudanum and then, when that failed, by stabbing themselves with a
                         knife they had concealed in the cell. Anna Beauchamp's second attempt
                         was successful. Jereboam was severely wounded, but received sufficient
                         treatment to enable him to meet his end on the gallows.
                    Anyone who has examined the case recognizes that, beyond the bare outlines of
                         the events, almost nothing about what happened in the Beauchamp-Sharpe
                         tragedy is clear—including, as Schoenbachler notes, whether it should
                         properly be termed a "tragedy." Even at the time, the murder
                         came to be bound up in the bitterly divisive politics of the 
                         day—Beauchamp's opponents charged that the act had been politically
                         motivated—and in a cultural framework dominated by sentimental ideas that
                         influenced perceptions of the principals, their actions, and their
                         fates.
                    Schoenbachler places great weight on this romantic framework, and does so
                         convincingly. As he shows, the Confession—which has served as a major
                         source for most studies of the tragedy—was above all an effort at
                         self-creation on the part of the Beauchamps, who used it to cast themselves
                         as figures deserving sympathy, not condemnation. They also hoped,
                         Schoenbachler notes, to spare Jereboam from his date with death. Most
                         contemporary newspaper accounts cast the episode in romantic terms, and
                         subsequent writers, who found the story a fruitful source for fiction and
                         drama, tended to cast it in the same terms as well.
                    Schoenbachler offers vivid, contextualized accounts of the lives of the
                         principals and other players in the drama, and develops a valuable 
                         portrayal of the unsettled character of Kentucky politics and society during
                         the early nineteenth century. This is a rewarding book that will be of
                         great interest to students of the early American republic.

                    DICKSON D. BRUCE JR. is Professor of History Emeritus at the University
                         of California, Irvine. Bruce's books
                         include The Origins of African American Literature,
                              1680-1865 (2001) and The Kentucky Tragedy: A Story
                              of Conflict and Change in Antebellum America (2006).
               

               
               
                    Abraham Lincoln, Esq. The Legal Career of America's
                              Greatest PresidentEdited by Roger Billings and Frank J.
                         Williams (Lexington: University
                         Press of Kentucky, 2010. Pp. 263. Notes, illustrations, index.
                         $40.00.)

                    Lincoln on Trial Southern Civilians and the Law of WarBy Burrus
                         M. Carnahan (Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 2010. Pp. 165.
                         Notes, index. $30.00.)


                    Roger Billings and Frank J. Williams's Abraham Lincoln, Esq. and Burrus
                         M. Carnahan's Lincoln on Trial are welcome additions to the studies
                         of Lincoln's legal practice and thought that have appeared during
                         the last twenty years. This surprisingly ample literature derives both
                         from the accessibility of a large database containing Lincoln's
                         legal papers and from contemporary critical reflection on lawyers. One
                         important question in much of the "Lincoln as lawyer" literature
                         involves the extent to which Lincoln's background as a lawyer
                         influenced his tortured and, ultimately, tragic presidency.
                    To emphasize that Lincoln was a lawyer is hardly to stress the 
                         insignificant. Folksy legends notwithstanding, Lincoln loved the orderliness and
                         logic of legal thought. While some fellow circuit riders relaxed by
                         reading novels and almanacs, Lincoln delighted in Euclid's Geometry
                         and its deductive reasoning. According to Harold Holzer in his essay in
                         Abraham Lincoln, Esq., Lincoln's firm handled between 17 and 34
                         percent of all cases in his county, far outpacing rival firms. Lincoln
                         himself managed roughly 200 cases per year and also "took an
                         astounding 340 cases to the Illinois Supreme Court" (p. 9). In the
                         words of Frank J. Williams in an essay in the same volume, "Lincoln
                         was not just a great president, but he was also a great lawyer" (p.
                         19).
                    Abraham Lincoln, Esq. includes four general essays
                         evaluating Lincoln's work as a lawyer, six essays discussing
                         particular aspects of Lincoln's Illinois practice,
                         and two essays exploring Lincoln's Washington years. The first group
                         of essays will have the greatest appeal for those seeking a general
                         overview of Lincoln and things legal, but these essays also seem to this
                         reviewer especially prone to excessive lionizing.
                    The essays on aspects of Lincoln's Illinois practice afford grittier
                         commentaries on how lawyers, legal institutions, and society in general
                         functioned in the antebellum decades. Two—both by Roger Billings—discuss
                         Lincoln's work as a debtor-creditor lawyer and as a real estate
                         lawyer. Lincoln had more debtor-creditor cases than any other kind. He more
                         frequently represented creditors than debtors and even on occasion 
                         represented himself while trying to collect a fee. Billings suggests that
                         Lincoln's  debtor-creditor work
                         reveals the problems caused by the shortage of money on the frontier and
                         by banks' inability to satisfactorily support business growth by
                         using unsecured promissory notes (p. 81). Lincoln's real estate
                         work, meanwhile, intertwined with his debtor-creditor work, with many of
                         his cases involving mortgage foreclosures. In both areas, Billings
                         demonstrates, Lincoln prioritized property rights over anything we might
                         call "civil liberties" or "due process."
                    Writing in the third part of Abraham Lincoln, Esq., Mackubin Thomas Owens
                         and William D. Pederson consider Lincoln's work during his
                         presidency as, respectively, a constitutional lawyer and as an 
                         international lawyer. In their essays, we tour Lincoln's understanding of
                         such constitutional issues as secession, the war powers, and
                         emancipation, and such international issues as blockades and the Lieber
                         Code, an early code of war. Pederson lapses into the kind of lionizing
                         characteristic of the first part of the book, saying at one point that
                         "Lincoln could easily be ranked as the greatest international lawyer
                         ever to serve as president of the United States" (p. 241) and at
                         another point invoking a popular book of legal lists to the effect that
                         Lincoln ranks "among the greatest lawyers in American history—second
                         only to John Marshall" (p. 241).
                    Burrus M. Carnahan's short Lincoln on Trial nicely extends the 
                         consideration of Lincoln as a wartime president and an international lawyer.
                         Carnahan insightfully discusses Lincoln's interpretation of the
                         nineteenth century's emerging law of war and this
                         interpretation's impact on civilians. The author avoids the presentist
                         temptation to equate Lincoln's law of war to that of our own time and
                         to compare Lincoln's decisions to more recent presidential actions in
                         relation to the former Yugoslavia, Afghanistan,
                         Iraq, and
                         Libya. Lincoln,
                         it should be underscored, was fighting a civil war on American soil, and he
                         hesitated to invoke the law of war too formally or frequently for fear of
                         according southern rebels sovereignty.
                    Especially intriguing are the ways in which the emphasis on property law, so
                         evident in Lincoln's Illinois practice, resurfaced in his thinking
                         about war. At the beginning of the Civil War, Lincoln hoped a respect for
                         the peacetime property rights in the border states would discourage 
                         secession. Even the Emancipation Proclamation, as he stated in a public letter
                         to James C. Conkling, rested on an appreciation of property. "The most
                         that can be said," Lincoln argued, "is that slaves are property.
                         Is there—had there ever been—any question that by the law of war,
                         property, both of enemies and friends, may be taken when needed?" (p.
                         27). Late in the war, Lincoln as well as his generals came to the
                         conclusion that "if Southern hearts could not be changed, threats to
                         Southern property could change Southern political calculations" (p.
                         89). Despite Confederate  pontificating
                         about a duty to preserve a distinctive culture, "[a] confederate
                         government that could not protect its citizens' property would lose
                         legitimacy" (p. 90).
                    Most generally, it is plausible that Lincoln's lawyerly habits of mind,
                         honed by two decades of legal practice, had an impact on his 
                         presidential decision making. Both as a practicing lawyer and as president, Lincoln
                         admired Blackstone for having brought order and coherence to a wide range
                         of precedents and developments. Like the model lawyer, Lincoln valued
                         reason over passion, and he greatly preferred to begin with general
                         principles and then draw specific conclusions regarding a given set of
                         facts. Hence, the principle of "military necessity" drove many
                         of his decisions regarding seizure of enemy property, retaliation against
                         the enemy, and devastation of enemy cities and farms. Carnahan concedes
                         that other psychological and philosophical factors affected
                         Lincoln's decisions, but he, like most of the essayists assembled by
                         Billings and Williams, maintains that Lincoln's years as a lawyer
                         affected his presidency. When Lincoln left Springfield, he told his
                         partner not to alter their shingle because he planned to return to
                         practice, but in striking ways Lincoln's presidency demonstrates
                         that he did not have to return to Springfield to continue working and
                         thinking as a lawyer.

                    DAVID RAY PAPKE is Professor of Law at Marquette University, where he
                         teaches American legal history. His half-dozen published books include the
                         prize-winning Heretics in the Temple: Americans Who Reject the
                         Nation's Legal Faith (1998).
               
               
                    The Lincoln Assassination Crime & Punishment, Myth & Memory
                         Edited by Harold Holzer, Craig L. Symonds, and Frank J. Williams
                         (Bronx, N.Y.: Fordham University Press, 2010. Pp. xii, 259.
                         Illustrations, index. $27.95.)


                    This collection is the fourth volume of published essays originally 
                         presented at the annual Lincoln Forum in Gettysburg,
                         Pennsylvania; unlike the
                         previous two titles in the series, which relied heavily on essays from
                         academic historians, The Lincoln Assassination includes a number of
                         contributions from independent historians. The editors promise that the
                         essayists "will provide a fresh examination ... into the legal,
                         social, and iconographic impact of Abraham Lincoln's death,"
                         (p. 8) but the book provides few, if any, original insights.
                    In the first essay, co-editors Holzer and Williams examine artistic
                         depictions of Lincoln's deathbed. They illustrate the essay with 
                         examples (many of them from the Lincoln 
                         Financial Foundation Collection at the Indiana State Museum) of the 
                         lithographs and engravings of Lincoln's final hours produced for popular
                         consumption. While the authors purport to show how the American public
                         learned about and responded to Lincoln's assassination, their essay
                         offers little more than a running commentary on the illustrations and the
                         "rubber room phenomenon" that depicted a larger crowd keeping
                         vigil at Lincoln's side than the actual room could possibly have
                         accommodated. An assessment of marketing strategies for these prints or an
                         interpretive analysis regarding the public's reception of these
                         images would have strengthened this chapter.
                    In other essays, Richard E. Sloan writes about Lincoln's funeral in
                         New
                         York City, an interesting local history study for residents of that
                         metropolis who can picture the Radio Shack that now stands where the
                         funeral procession once crossed. Former Rhode Island Chief Justice Frank
                         Williams evaluates the justness of military tribunals during the Civil
                         War and draws parallels with President Barack Obama's handling of the
                         Guantanamo detainees. Nearly a third of Williams's footnotes refer to
                         modern newspaper sources, and his conclusion seems more fitting for an
                         op-ed piece than a historical essay. Elizabeth D. Leonard presents a
                         biographical essay on Judge Advocate General Joseph Holt, who authorized
                         the military trial of Indiana civilian Lambdin P Milligan and subsequently
                         led the obsessed prosecution of the assassination conspirators. Yet
                         Leonard's essay presents no new insights that were not previously
                         shared in her book, Lincoln's Avengers (2004).
                    In addition to Leonard's essay, contributions from Thomas R. Turner,
                         Edward Steers Jr., and Michael W. Kauffman deal directly with the 
                         assassination conspiracy and trial. While these chapters offer no new insights
                         or interpretations of the events, they are perhaps the strongest of the
                         book. The diverging arguments of Steers and Kauffman regarding the
                         complicity of Samuel Mudd in the assassination conspiracy and the overall
                         fairness of the trial are particularly interesting. As Turner observes,
                         "these positions cannot be easily reconciled" (p. 171). A general
                         reader could nevertheless have benefitted from some editorial commentary
                         introducing these opposing positions and the authors' 
                         interpretations of the evidence.
                    Thomas P. Lowry's essay is the most troublesome contribution to this
                         volume. "Not Everybody Mourned Lincoln's Death," based upon
                         the case files of court-martialed soldiers, tackles an interesting
                         subject but is unfortunately dampened by repetitive, uninspired prose.
                         Furthermore, Lowry's recent confession to the Office of the Inspector
                         General that he intentionally altered the date on a Lincoln pardon raises
                         serious doubts about his research.
                    The editors' decision to reprint a fifty-year-old chapter from Richard
                         Current's The Lincoln Nobody Knows (1958) sums up the value of this
                               book. While this volume promises
                         new insights on the Lincoln assassination, there is nothing new here for
                         the specialist or informed Lincoln enthusiast. A general reader 
                         interested in this topic might find some value in this book, but would probably
                         enjoy one of James Swanson's books on the assassination more.

                    S. CHANDLER LIGHTY is a research associate with the Papers of Abraham
                         Lincoln. He has written reviews for the Journal of the Abraham Lincoln
                         Association and Ohio Valley History and assisted with the Papers of Lew and
                         Susan Wallace.
               

               
                    The Brilliant Bandit of the Wabash The Life of the Notorious Outlaw
                    Frank Rande By Mark Dugan with Anna Vasconelles
                         (DeKalb: Northern
                         Illinois University Press, 2010. Pp. [xiii], 207. Illustrations, appendix,
                         notes, bibliography, index. $22.95.)


                    Mark Dugan has produced a slim and eminently readable biography of Charles
                         Scott, alias Frank Rande, a self-styled desperado whose sordid career won
                         him an equally squalid celebrity.
                    At his trial for murder, Rande's family described him as a promising
                         young man. He was a good student and occasional preacher whose career as a
                         teacher and talents as a blacksmith were ruined by twin tragedies: first,
                         a carriage accident which allegedly led to major changes in his
                         personality; second, the loss of his young wife to illness, which triggered
                         what Dugan calls a dormant mental illness. Consequently, Rande became an
                         aggressive drifter whose demeanor and actions frightened his family and
                         former associates.
                    Dugan claims that an arrest for suspicion of larceny at age thirty-one led
                         Rande to declare that he would make himself a "terror in the
                         land" (p. 16). Over the next several years, Rande was involved in a
                         string of burglaries, assaults, and finally murders (including among his
                         victims several police officers) throughout the midwestern states. His
                         capture in Missouri made him a regional celebrity. He played the part
                         beautifully, and was clearly obsessed with maintaining his public image
                         as a violent bandit in order to reap the monetary rewards he anticipated
                         from the sale of his memoirs and photographs of himself. Even though his
                         many crimes were open-and-shut cases, a jury bizarrely decided to sentence
                         him to life imprisonment instead of execution. (As Dugan notes, upon
                         hearing that one member of the jury had initially held out for a
                         not-guilty verdict, Rande exclaimed, "That man is crazier than
                         I" [p.146]). In prison, he developed a hatred for one of his  keepers, whom he nearly killed in a
                         savage assault. Placed in solitary confinement after the assault, he was
                         soon found dead from an apparent suicide.
                    Drawn largely from newspaper accounts and trial testimony, the book is a
                         wholly competent narrative of the trail of pointless and devastating
                         carnage that Rande blazed in the 1870s through Indiana, Illinois,
                         and Missouri. Dugan and his research 
                         assistant have plainly labored hard to reconstruct the chronology of Rande
                         (whose aliases, he once claimed, numbered in the hundreds), and their
                         determination to stick to a documentary account of his career is plain.
                         The book represents in that sense a clearly impressive amount of sleuthing.
                         In this context, though, Dugan's refusal to follow more closely the
                         question of whether Rande's hanging was a suicide or a murder carried
                         out by his captors seems all the more puzzling. Evidence matters, but
                         reasoned deduction can be equally valid.
                    It is unfortunate that Dugan's otherwise admirable devotion to detail
                         obscures the much more promising line of inquiry that he lays out in his
                         foreword and introduction. The most interesting aspect of Rande's
                         career is that a man so apparently crazed could nonetheless play the role
                         of media celebrity so well. Even allowing for journalistic license in the
                         reporting and embellishing of his words and deeds, Rande obviously played
                         to the crowd, and knew enough of the dime-store novel genre to recast
                         himself as an outlaw icon along the lines of Jesse James. Such self-aware
                         performance—and an examination of what it reveals about the role of media
                         in creating and sustaining popular notions about socially deviant
                         behavior—makes for far more interesting and noteworthy reading than
                         literal, blow-by-blow reconstructions of each of Rande's encounters
                         with the law.
                    More important, if, as Dugan says, banditry's popularity derived from
                         class resentment against the excesses of the Gilded Age, then Dugan might
                         have analyzed Rande's presentation of self and the public acceptance
                         of his portrayal along class lines. Like Jonathan Spence's The Death
                         of Woman Wang (1998), The Brilliant Bandit of the Wabash could have
                         combined an intensive study of court records with a broader analysis of the
                         culture in which both the law and its consequences were situated. That,
                         perhaps, is a subject for Dugan's next book.

                    PAUL MUSGRAVE is a Ph.D. student in government at Georgetown 
                         University.
               

               
               
                    An Elusive Unity Urban Democracy and Machine Politics in
                    Industrializing America By James J. Connolly
                         (Ithaca, N.Y.:
                         Cornell University Press, 2010. Pp. xiv, 264. Illustrations, notes,
                         bibliography, index. $39.95.)


                    James J. Connolly's An Elusive Unity considers a topic
                         that has been examined frequently by specialists in the Gilded Age and
                         Progressive Era: the rise of political machines in an America being rapidly
                         transformed by industrialization and urbanization. With a nod to Robert
                         Merton, Alexander Callow, Amy Bridges, Bruce Stave, and an assortment of
                         political scientists and historians who have written perceptively about the
                         big city bosses who dominated the urban scene for decades, Connolly retells
                         the stories of New York City's Boss
                         Tweed, Chicago's Johnny Powers, and other
                         notorious local political leaders. Despite traversing much familiar ground,
                         the author manages to enrich our understanding of machine politics through
                         his creative use of primary sources (including novels, memoirs,
                         journalistic accounts, political cartoons, and photographs) and careful
                         examination of the relationship between political parties and other groups
                         that played important roles in elections and local governance in American
                         cities. Chapters dealing with workingmen's organizations and
                         reform-minded clubwomen explain cogently how crafty bosses withstood
                         challenges to their party dominance, just as another chapter recounts the
                         ways that professional politicians used newspapers, popular magazines, and
                         other media to mount an effective defense of their value as brokers between
                         competing interests in polyglot urban settings. A brief epilogue
                         discusses the enduring popularity of Edwin O'Connor's The Last
                         Hurrah (1956) and assesses that novel's importance in shaping 
                         scholarly and popular perceptions of bosses and machines.
                    Connolly situates his analysis of bosses and machines within a larger
                         discussion of the tensions that have characterized American politics for
                         more than two centuries. His examination of competing interest groups in
                         a small sample of big cities suggests that similar developments occurred
                         throughout industrializing America. Thus, the rise of big city bosses
                         reflected a rearrangement of local institutions and the transformation of
                         political practices, signaling the triumph of pluralism over a 
                         republicanism based upon civic virtue and moral order. According to the author,
                         the American politics that developed after the Civil War—seen first in the
                         political machines that gained control in large eastern and midwestern
                         cities—reinforced masculine leadership, rewarded party discipline, and
                         recognized ethnic and class differences, while business leaders, women,
                         and labor leaders raised objections to the emerging political order. The
                               rejection of socialism and an
                         inadequate attention to class interests in the cities led to a reform
                         politics limited to structural changes and efficient management of
                         resources. The rise of political machines, which proved to be imperfect
                         tools for reconciling diversity and representative government,
                         constituted the acceptance of a flawed pluralism and the loss of a
                         republican ideal. As Connolly reminds us in this thoughtful 
                         reconsideration of machine politics, Americans' chronic disaffection with
                         American politics and government reflects both a lingering romantic
                         reverence for republican ideals and a determination to nurture a more
                         open, inclusive political order.

                    ROGER BILES is professor of history at Illinois State University. His
                         most recent book is The Fate of Cities: Urban America and the Federal 
                         Government, 1945-2000 (2011).
               
               
                    Ohio's Kingmaker Mark Hanna, Man and Myth
                         By William T. Horner (Athens:
                         Ohio University Press, 2010. Pp. xi, 367. Illustrations, notes,
                         bibliography, index. $60.00.)


                    William T. Horner's detailed portrayal of Mark Hanna aims to correct
                         misperceptions of Hanna's role in both Ohio and national politics
                         during the closing decades of the nineteenth century. These
                         misperceptions are the result, the author contends, of inadequately
                         researched contemporary news coverage repeated without investigation by
                         modern journalists, as well as of intentional misstatements by the Hearst
                         newspapers and other political opponents of Hanna.
                    Hanna has been portrayed as the puppeteer controlling the actions of
                         Republican presidential candidate William McKinley in 1896. Horner shows,
                         however, that Charles Dawes and other major campaign funders also played
                         major roles in McKinley's campaign and that the candidate made several
                         important decisions against Hanna's advice, including the decision to
                         run a "front porch" campaign. The author notes as well that
                         Dawes and others "were far more influential than Hanna once McKinley
                         became president" (p. 307).
                    Another often-repeated misperception, Horner tells us, is the notion that
                         Hanna created the assessment method of campaign funding, a practice by
                         which the campaign told corporations what proportion of their corporate
                         assets they must contribute in order to stay in the administration's
                         good graces. The author shows that this method had already been used in the
                         Benjamin Harrison campaign and argues that the large sums Hanna  raised for McKinley's campaign were
                         necessary due to the intensity of the issues of the election.
                    Horner also rebuts the charge that Hanna engaged in political activities
                         for personal power or financial gain. Hanna made no effort, Horner
                         contends, to use his newspaper to promote his own business interests, nor
                         did he pursue a job in the Garfield administration even after making
                         substantial efforts on behalf of Garfield's successful presidential
                         candidacy. Similarly, Hanna raised money for McKinley, Horner argues,
                         because he believed McKinley was the best presidential candidate—although
                         it seems clear that Hanna stood to gain far more from a McKinley
                         administration than he would from a victory by Democratic opponent William
                         Jennings Bryan. The author acknowledges Hanna's willingness to condone
                         bribery and commitment to reward political services with patronage, but
                         defends both practices as common at the time.
                    Homer's analysis is less persuasive on some points. His broad 
                         indictment of the media ranges from claims that "the modern
                         press"—in
                         opposition to its late nineteenth-century counterpart—"is largely
                         nonpartisan and objective in its coverage of politics" (p. 5), to
                         the seemingly contradictory statement that current media coverage shows
                         "objective journalism on the wane," in a manner similar to
                         Hanna's time (p. 315). His argument that the parties are much weaker
                         now than in Hanna's lifetime seems to depend on research more relevant
                         to the 1970s than to our own time. The book is often repetitive. And I
                         would have liked to see more discussion about the comparison between Hanna
                         and George W. Bush's adviser Karl Rove, a comparison Horner 
                         discounts. As the author himself notes, just as Rove hoped to expand the
                         Republican coalition in the 2000s, Hanna did so by appealing to 
                         immigrants and urban workers, drawing on techniques such as printing campaign
                         materials in a number of different languages. That is an important story
                         that deserves telling in greater detail.

                    MARJORIE RANDON HERSHEY, Professor of Political Science at Indiana 
                         University, is the author of a number of books, articles, and book chapters
                         about American party politics and elections, including Party Politics in
                         America, now in its 14th edition.
               

               
               
                    The Rise of the Ku Klux Klan Right-Wing Movements and National
                    PoliticsBy Rory McVeigh (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota
                         Press, 2009. Pp. 244. Charts, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                         Paperbound, $22.50.)


                    In his book The Rise of the Ku Klux Klan: Right-Wing Movements and National
                         Politics, sociologist Rory McVeigh offers critical insights into the
                         strategies and constituency of the 1920s Klan. The work offers a 
                         sophisticated new explanation of the quick rise of an organization that, at its
                         height, numbered more than three million.
                    McVeigh's analysis challenges as too simplistic prior research that
                         treated Klansmen as "irrational, ignorant, or gullible" (p. 36)
                         or, alternatively, as "downwardly mobile" folks "clinging
                         to a worldview that was becoming obsolete in a changing world" (p.
                         133). Instead, McVeigh reveals an organization that carefully crafted its
                         narratives and political positions to appeal to a predominantly 
                         middle-class constituency.
                    Using a sophisticated content analysis of Klan publications—in particular
                         the group's national newsletter Imperial Knight-Hawk—McVeigh shows
                         that the group's mobilization correlated with a perceived decline in
                         status for many native-born, white Protestants. Klan members were 
                         predominantly small businessmen, shop owners, and craftsmen who felt
                         threatened by cheap factory labor undertaken by immigrants and funded by
                         big financial institutions. The threat was real. Working conditions were
                         rapidly shifting as large-scale factories took over manufacturing from
                         family-run firms. In response, McVeigh argues, the Klan crafted a series of
                         nativist and racist appeals designed to play upon these fears. In keeping
                         with its populist approach, the Klan also supported such civic institutions
                         as public schools as an important bulwark against downward mobility.
                    McVeigh's analytical frame is heavily influenced by market theory and
                         the concepts of supply and demand. He examines the market competition—not
                         only economic but also political and social—faced by the Klan's core
                         constituency and argues that "the movement thrived on cultural
                         homogeneity and tended to be most active in states in which native-born
                         white Protestants greatly outnumbered immigrants and Catholics" (p.
                         180). Contact with immigrants or people of color was not what allowed the
                         Klan to flourish; rather, it did well where there was a lack of diversity
                         and arguments for cultural homogeneity were more widely accepted. That
                         meant that the Klan would grow strongest in the Midwest, particularly in
                         Indiana, even if its chapters could be found nationwide.
                    Even with the resources of its constituency and the success of its recruiting
                         effort, the Klan fell apart  within a
                         few years of reaching its height. McVeigh finds that infighting, bad press,
                         and political missteps prior to the 1924 presidential election all
                         contributed to the Klan's decline. By 1928, only a few hundred
                         thousand members remained in the group.
                    In a larger context, McVeigh's work makes a strong case for why
                         conservative and liberal social movements should be treated differently.
                         McVeigh rightly points out that conservative social movements offer
                         remedies for populations that have power, but believe they are being
                         challenged by changes in society. Because of this established power, social
                         movements from the right tend to bring greater resources to bear on their
                         causes. Liberal social movements, on the other hand, look to expand
                         opportunities and rights to previously excluded sectors of society. Their
                         work is harder, as the populations they represent are usually oppressed
                         and thus have less access to financial and other resources to fund their
                         battles. These clear differences argue strongly for separate analyses of
                         social movements from the right and the left.

                    HEIDI BEIRICH, who graduated from Purdue University with a Ph.D. in
                         political science, is director of research for the Southern Poverty Law
                         Center. She is the co-editor of Neo-Confederacy: A Critical Introduction
                         (2008).

                    KEVIN HICKS, who graduated from Purdue University with a Ph.D. in
                         English, is associate professor of English at Alabama State
                         University.
               
               
                    The Federal Art Project and the Creation of Middlebrow Culture By
                         Victoria Grieve (Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 2009. Pp. x,
                         299. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $45.00.)


                    Victoria Grieve's book is a welcome addition to the literature on New
                         Deal art programs. Surprisingly, it is also the first sustained examination
                         of the early twentieth-century emergence of a middlebrow culture as it
                         pertains to the visual arts. Sparsely illustrated, the book nonetheless
                         complements studies of New Deal artwork by illuminating post-World War I
                         cultural theories that planted the seeds for Federal Art Project (FAP)
                         initiatives in the 1930s. Historians and art historians alike will want
                         to read with a laptop nearby to see examples of artworks by some of the
                         lesser-known artists under discussion.
                    Grieve's study arrives as a growing number of scholars of American art
                         history have begun to examine the 1920s. Situated between the criticism of
                         the genteel Gilded Age and that of the populist New Deal era, the 
                         period's art criticism resists easy   categorization. Grieve aims to correct the tendency
                         among historians to see the controversies of the New Deal cultural
                         projects in terms of "economics, employment, and politics" or
                         as the result of radical cultural agendas in urban centers like
                         New York
                         City (pp. 3-6). Instead she focuses on tensions rooted in conflicting
                         ideas about the role of art itself. While some progressive reformers
                         embraced a conception of fine art as the purview of an educated elite,
                         others adopted more participatory models of culture. Still others merged
                         the goal of uplift with that of participation to form a middlebrow
                         alternative. The economic upheaval of the Great Depression finally put
                         these new ideas about art's accessibility to the test.
                    IMH readers may well be familiar with the philosophies of John Dewey; those
                         with additional interest in the history of American art may also know the
                         innovative museum exhibitions and programming undertaken by John Cotton
                         Dana and Albert C. Barnes. However, here we see their boundary-breaking
                         definitions of art and their faith in its educational potential as
                         important precursors to the FAP's public art agenda. Likewise,
                         Grieve's nuanced discussion of shifting cultural prerogatives provides
                         a lens through which to view other artists of the period not discussed
                         here. The painter Cecilia Beaux, for instance, stood out for her praise of
                         soldier statues in 1919. When most art world types hoped World War I
                         memorials would little resemble Civil War statues, Beaux suggested that
                         artists make replicas of their designs for communities who could not afford
                         originals. She viewed the emotional and commercial accessibility of
                         soldier memorials as an advantage rather than a liability. Grieve links the
                         FAP's support of art for the common man to these earlier strains of
                         art criticism, even if it took financial crisis to make them a
                         widespread, though contested, reality.
                    The second half of the book is refreshing for its focus on lesser-studied New
                         Deal art programs. Admirers (and skeptics) of Indiana's murals may appreciate learning
                         more about the Index of American Design and Community Art
                              Centers. As Grieve shows, anything purporting to be as
                         comprehensive as the Index may say as much by what it
                         excludes as by what it includes (bringing to mind current art digitization
                         projects). FAP director Holger Cahill nonetheless had faith that these
                         initiatives, despite their limitations, would stimulate public interest in
                         contemporary art. Though not discussed here, World War I "liberty
                         houses" offer another example of how FAP programs like the Art Centers
                         echoed earlier progressive impulses by promoting the "active
                         study" of art through community exhibitions and classes (p.141).
                         Grieve's discussion of the Art Centers is especially relevant at a
                         moment when cultural institutions struggle to nurture new audiences and
                         connect with local communities. In summary, Grieve's book offers fresh
                         insights into the ways that bold 
                         rethinking of art's role in U.S. society
                         transformed cultural programming under the auspices of the FAP.

                    JENNIFER WINGATE is Assistant Professor of Fine Arts at St. Francis
                         College in Brooklyn,
                                   New York. She is completing her first book,
                         "American Soldiers in World War I Memorial Sculpture: Picturing,
                         Selling, and Commemorating the Doughboy."
               
               
                    ComradesA Local History of the Black Panther PartyEdited by
                         Judson L. Jeffries (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 2007. Pp.
                         310. Illustrations, notes, index. Clothbound, $65.00; paperbound,
                         $24.95.)


                    Improving upon existing scholarship that is often repetitive, focuses
                         over-much on "great men" and their tangles with law enforcement,
                         and privileges the history of the Oakland headquarters and chapters in
                                   Chicago and
                                   New York City, this
                         collection of essays skillfully situates seven rarely examined chapters of
                         the Black Panther Party (BPP) within the larger scope of African American
                         urban migration, civil rights activism, and the Black Freedom Struggle. In
                         studies focused on BPP branches in Los
                                   Angeles, Cleveland,
                         Indianapolis,
                         Milwaukee,
                         Philadelphia,
                         Baltimore, and
                         Winston-Salem, Jeffries and his 
                         collaborators uncover the forces leading to the establishment of local
                         chapters, the mobilization of rank-and-file members, the implementation of
                         community programs, and the impact of FBI surveillance and
                         counterintelligence efforts on the growth and development of each
                         branch.
                    Utilizing archival materials and interviews, the essays in Comrades cast BPP
                         members as social service workers, not militants involved in standoffs with
                         police. This more holistic analysis leads to several conclusions about
                         local branches. First, since The Black Panther newspaper accounted for
                         their most reliable source of revenue, offered work for many of their
                         members, and kept members connected to the community, the paper's
                         distribution posed a threat to entities seeking to suppress the
                         organization. Second, law enforcement's active opposition to the BPP
                         financially crippled most branches, as members struggled to pay legal fees
                         for fighting arrests, to replace damaged property, and to recoup their
                         physical health. Third, college and high school students constituted a
                         greater percentage of the membership than other demographics in most
                         chapters. Fourth, the opportunism of members who were informants or who
                         were merely interested in the cachet of being affiliated with the BPP
                         eroded chapters from within. Finally 
                         and most important, the BPP rank and file's principal achievements
                         included the establishment and operation of such programs as free 
                         breakfasts for children, food and clothing giveaways, busing to prisons, health
                         clinics, political education classes, and the perhaps better-known 
                         community patrols.
                    The essays explore the particularities of each branch, and midwestern
                         chapters enjoyed their own special triumphs. The work of the Black Panthers
                         in Milwaukee, for example, led to a
                         heightened awareness of childhood hunger in that city that had lasting
                         impacts beyond the twentieth century; in Cleveland, many of the alternative
                         institutions put in place by the party remain active long after the branch
                         had disbanded. The Indianapolis chapter stood out for the mere fact of its
                         presence in a city noted for its reserved and calm response to racial
                         issues. Though it suffered like every other BPP chapter from harassment by
                         law enforcement agencies, the Indianapolis branch was considered "the
                         most non-violent chapter in the country" (p. 147) and the authors tie
                         both its successes and its demise to interracial alliances as well as to
                         the relative comfort Indianapolis blacks enjoyed vis-a-vis those in other
                         large midwestern cities.
                    With a clear structure, compelling photographs, and an honest introduction
                         that brings the entire work together, Comrades' only major shortcoming
                         may be the brevity of its histories. Even as African Americanists
                         diligently work at writing histories of the 1960s and 1970s, future
                         historians will need to write fuller histories of these chapters. As the
                         book's conclusion notes, historians should consider each branch's
                         history and social service components in light of the "rightward
                         transformation of American political culture [that] set in motion the
                         erasure of the meaning and significance of the Black Panther Party"
                         (p. 294).

                    SIOBHAN CARTER-DAVID is a doctoral candidate in the Department of 
                         History and the American Studies Program at Indiana University.
               
               
                    Interstate 69 The Unfinished History of the Last Great American
                    Highway By Matt Dellinger (New York: Scribner, 2010. Pp. xii,
                         340. Maps, notes, index. $26.00.)


                    A current road map reveals that Interstate 69, part of the nation's
                         limited-access highway system, connects Port
                              Huron, Michigan,
                         on the north with Indianapolis on the
                         south, skirting Fort
                                   Wayne along the way. Since the late
                         1980s, however, promoters have envisioned extending the road from the
                         Hoosier capital to the Gulf Coast of Texas, while also
                         realigning its  numbering in
                         Michigan
                         to favor existing freeways serving Detroit. Journalist Matt Dellinger
                         provides a detailed history of the various strategies employed by states
                         along this route to promote the expanded road—sometimes dubbed the
                         "NAFTA Highway"—as a corridor for economic development across the
                         United
                              States connecting Canada and Mexico. To date, this idea has been
                         sustained by some $2.5 billion in federal and state funds, most for
                         pre-construction planning. Importantly, Dellinger also details the ways
                         in which opposing forces in the affected states have sought to block the
                         highway. In sum, he uses the history of I-69 to assess larger issues:
                         "The magnitude of the project has made Interstate 69 a fault line for
                         many of the key questions confronting Americans: not just matters of
                         transportation policy, macroeconomics, and land-use planning, but also
                         the tug-of-war between urban and rural, and the blurry distinction between
                         standard of living and quality of life" (p. 9).
                    The book's key discussion focuses on Indiana, where opposition to the
                         proposed highway has been most intense. Historians will appreciate how the
                         author roots his discussion in the past, starting with the members of the
                         Graham family of Daviess County. Early in the twentieth century the
                         Grahams, who produced motor trucks and passenger cars, promoted the
                         Pan-American Highway. It was David Graham of Washington, Indiana, who
                         helped energize the Southwestern Indiana Regional Highway Coalition
                         (SWIRHC), the organization that first advocated a new, shorter-distance
                         freeway connection between Indianapolis and
                         Evansville. Dellinger's
                         interviews with Graham begin and end the book, framing the discussion and
                         setting the tone for a book that is as much a product of investigative
                         reporting as it is a work of history.
                    Each state (Indiana, Kentucky, Tennessee, Mississippi, Arkansas, Louisiana,
                         and Texas) provides Dellinger with distinctive stories to tell. But he
                         returns to Indiana for his basic reference point, especially regarding the
                         history of opposition to the road. South-central Indiana group Hoosiers
                         Opposed to Wasting Land (HOWL) was begun by activists Scott and Jackie
                         Wilson, who disparaged still another mammoth highway project at the
                         expense of rural land owners. Citizens for Appropriate Rural Roads
                         (CARR), another Indiana group, adopted "Fix the Roads We Have" as
                         their slogan. In Indiana and elsewhere, these and other organizations
                         have resisted the pro-development mentality that favored massive
                         engineering solutions to economic problems-solutions that threatened to
                         bring undue environmental damage and further skew differences between
                         society's haves and havenots.
                    To date, the pro-development mentality has held the upper hand in
                         Washington,
                         D.C., in state   legislatures, county
                         board rooms, and in the courts. Already in Kentucky, hundreds of miles of
                         former toll road labeled "Future I-69 Corridor" await upgrading
                         to current interstate highway standards. In Indiana, state road maps
                         plainly label the future corridor as a fait accompli. In his conclusion,
                         the author considers what might happen if the enterprise fails:
                         "What if it remains an awkward, half-finished monument to the people
                         who've tried to build it and the people who've tried to stop it?
                         .... Whatever places are revived or destroyed or left alone life will
                         adapt, and people will forget" (p. 309). No matter the outcome, Matt
                         Dellinger's book will remain an insightful reminder of one of the
                         nation's current preoccupations—automobility as a kind of highway to
                         economic development.

                    JOHN A. JAKLE is Emeritus Professor of Geography at University of
                         Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
               

               
               
                    REVIEW NOTICES


                    A Pike County Editor's Outbasket Writings by Beulah B.
                              Gray, Editor of The Otwell Star
                         Edited by Ralph D. Gray and William O. Harris
                                   (Bloomington,
                         Ind.:
                         Gray Matters Press, 2010. Pp. 188. Further reading. Paperbound,
                         $17.95.)

                    Prolific author and eminent Indiana historian Ralph D. Gray has turned his
                         scholarly gaze homeward for this collection of his grandmother's 
                         writings. The collection offers readers both a portrait of a remarkable woman
                         and a sense of life in rural Indiana between 1929 and 1944. Gray and his
                         co-editor, William O. Harris, are proud native sons of Pike County. Their
                         subject, Beulah B. Gray, was an expert in the history of southwestern
                         Indiana, often using her post as
                         editor of The Otwell Star to discuss the
                         heritage of the area and the legacies left by some of its notable 
                         residents. The editors let Beulah Gray speak for herself through letters, 
                         historical essays, obituaries, and other newspaper articles, providing just
                         enough context to her writings. Reading these entries is like sitting
                         down for a cup of coffee with a favorite aunt and catching up on the latest
                         news—a ritual that seems long gone but remains utterly worthwhile.



                    Nature's Storyteller The Life of Gene Stratton-Porter By
                         Barbara Olenyik Morrow (Indianapolis: Indiana Historical Society
                         Press, 2010. Pp. x, 181. Illustrations, bibliography, index. $17.95.)

                    Before Rachel Carson or Annie Dillard, Gene Stratton-Porter wrote movingly of
                         the natural world surrounding her home in northern Indiana. Her work
                         inspired conservationists and casual backyard bird-watchers alike to
                         value and protect wildlife—and wild lands like the Limberlost Swamp—in
                         danger of quickly disappearing from the twentieth-century landscape.
                         Barbara Olenyik Morrow's accessible biography introduces young
                         readers to the popular Hoosier author, appropriately beginning with her
                         childhood awakening to the natural world and following through to her
                         untimely  death. Nature's
                         Storyteller also includes brief excerpts from Stratton-Porter's
                         writings and some of her photographs.




                    19 Stars of Indiana Exceptional Hoosier Men By Michael S. Maurer;
                         foreword by Michael A. McRobbie (Indianapolis, Ind.: Indiana
                         Historical Society Press, 2010. Pp. xvi, 232. Illustrations. $24.95.)

                    Michael S. Maurer follows up his 2009 celebration of influential Hoosier
                         women (19 Stars of Indiana: Exceptional Hoosier Women) with a readable and
                         insightful collection of biographies of David Baker, Steven Beering, Gerald
                         Bepko, David Carter, William Cook, Mitch Daniels, Jim Davis, Lawrence H.
                         Einhorn, Gebisa Ejeta, Carl Erskine, Eugene B. Glick, Theodore M. Hesburgh,
                         Marvin Johnson, Joseph Kernan, Richard Lugar, Joseph Mamlin, George
                         McGinnis, Angelo Pizzo, and Quentin Smith. The professions of these
                         nineteen noteworthy men range from the scientific to the musical, from
                         the political to the spiritual. Hoosier readers will enjoy learning about
                         Maurer's "stars" some household names and some not—for each
                         has helped to make Indiana what it is today.


                    Generations The Helen Cox Kersting Collection of Southwestern Cultural
                    Arts Edited by James H. Nottage (Norman: University of Oklahoma
                         Press, 2011. Pp. 439. Illustrations, notes, further reading, index.
                         $75.00.)

                    First-time visitors to downtown Indianapolis may be surprised to discover
                         in a midwestern city one of the nation's pre-eminent museums of
                         western and Native American art. Founded on the collections of local
                         businessman Harrison Eiteljorg, the Eiteljorg Museum has added a number
                         of impressive collections to its galleries over its two-decade-plus life.
                         This volume profiles the recently acquired collections of one woman, Helen
                         Cox Kersting. The book includes comments from Kersting and from museum
                         president John Vanausdall on how the collection developed and how it came
                         to reside in Indianapolis. The rest of the lavishly illustrated volume
                         focuses on Mrs. Kersting's astonishing collection of southwestern
                         jewelery and pottery (as well as weavings, baskets, and katsinas) crafted
                         by southwestern Native artists across the twentieth century.


                    
                    Always a River The Ohio River and the American Experience Edited by
                         Robert L. Reid (Bloomington,
                         Ind.: Quarry Books, 2010. Pp. xxi, 260.
                         Illustrations, selected bibliography, index. Paperbound, $19.95.)

                    In October 1811, the steamboat New Orleans left Pittsburgh and sailed along the
                              Ohio River to
                         its eponymous destination, reaching the Crescent City in January 1812 and
                         becoming the first steam-powered vessel to successfully make the journey.
                         Released to coincide with the bicentennial of that milestone journey, this
                         update to the 1991 edition (reviewed in the IMH's December 1992 issue)
                         features a new introduction with a historical overview and an up-to-date
                         map to augment essays on the river's history, its geography, its
                         political and economic impact, and its literary legacy. The essays in this
                         volume invite the reader to climb aboard and meditate awhile on the
                         river's considerable impact upon the nation's heartland.




                    After Tippecanoe Some Aspects of the War of 1812 Edited by Philip
                         P. Mason (Lansing: Michigan State University Press, 2011. Pp. xiii,
                         104. Notes, index. Paperbound, $19.95.)

                    After Tippecanoe: Some Aspects of the War of 1812 is a
                         reprint of a collection of lectures given in Windsor, Ontario, and
                                   Detroit,
                                   Michigan, during the war's
                         sesquicentennial in the winter of 1961-1962. Distinguished scholars of the
                         day offer their thoughts in chapters titled, "The Coming of the
                         War"; "Sir Isaac Brock: The Hero of Queenston Heights";
                         "The Contribu- tion of the Canadian Militia during the War";
                         "Naval Power on the Lakes, 1812-1814"; "The Role of the
                         Indian in the War"; and "Kentucky in the Northwest
                         Campaign." The book's title derives from the argument that the
                         battle at Prophetstown lent a spark to existing U.S.-British tensions
                         (Congress blamed the British for arming Indians), leading to the
                         conflagration of the War of 1812. Though its contents focus on events in
                                   Ontario and Michigan, readers interested in the Old
                         Northwest will appreciate the early historical puerspectives represented in
                         After Tippecanoe.




                    Tales from Kentucky One-Room School Teachers By William Lynwood Montell
                         (Lexington: The University Press of Kentucky, 2011. Pp. 293. Index.
                         $24.95.)

                    One-room schoolhouses, seemingly a quaint relic of the nineteenth century,
                         remained a fixture on Kentucky's educational landscape until well into
                         the 1960s. Their relatively recent demise has enabled folklorist William
                         Lynwood Montell, Professor Emeritus of Folk Studies at Western   Kentucky University, to collect the
                         reminiscences of former teachers in an effort to preserve the
                         schools' social, cultural, and educational heritage. The storytellers
                         in this volume reflect on issues ranging from students with special needs
                         to evolving methods of discipline to students' home lives—even to the
                         topic of school outhouses. Anyone who has ever been a teacher—or a
                         student—will appreciate Montell's valuable compilation.
               

          
          
     
          
          
          
          
     

