
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 91, Issue 3, pages 245-360. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:91+issue:3+year:1995&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Dorothy Lois Riker, 1904-1994: Reflections on Indiana History, Historical Editing, and Women in
                    the Historical Profession
            
                    Lana Ruegarner
                    *
                
            Dorothy L. Riker enjoyed a remarkably productive fifty-year career as an historian and editor for the
                    Indiana Historical Bureau and Indiana Historical Society. For reasons that bear some exploring,
                    Riker, with her fellow editors Nellie Armstrong Robertson and Gayle Thornbrough, exercised
                    considerable influence over what was published in Indiana history during that period
                        (1929—1979).1 Riker's life raises interesting questions
                    about the opportunities and constraints encountered by the first generation of Indiana women to
                    receive professional training in history,2 a group who were also among the first
                    generation of American women to come to adulthood after World War I and the enfranchisement of
                    women. Their rapid disappearance from our midst prompts this preliminary effort to understand their
                    historical significance in general and that of Dorothy Riker in particular.
            Riker was born in 
                        Elwood
                    , Indiana, in 1904, the second daughter and third child of carpenter Albert D. Riker and
                    his wife, Catherine Ripple Riker.3 Although she spent five years at Indiana
                        
                  
                     * Lana Ruegamer teaches 
                                United States
                             history and women's history at Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            . Concerning the following essay she writes: "I worked with Dorothy
                            Riker at the Indiana Historical Society from 1975 to 1979 and saw her frequently from 1980
                            to 1984. I am grateful to Shirley S. McCord, Paula Corpuz, Gayle Thornbrough, and Hubert H.
                            Hawkins for sharing their memories of Dorothy with me and for reading this
                            manuscript."
                  
                     1 Lana Ruegamer, A History of the Indiana Historical
                                Society, 1830-1980 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1980), 230-31, 238; Lana Ruegamer, "Gayle Thornbrough and the Indiana
                            Historical Society," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXX
                            (September, 1984), 271-77.
                  
                     2 The first woman to take an advanced degree in history at Indiana
                            University was Harriett Casper, who received an M.A. in 1893, only three years after the
                            first males received their M.A.'s in 1890. There were, however, very few women
                            (only twenty between 1893 andd 1920) taking postgraduate degrees in history until the 1920s.
                            Eva Drusilla Edgerton, comp., "A Bibliography of Theses Submitted to Indiana
                            University for Advanced Degrees, 1883 1927" (B.S. thesis, School of Library Service, 
                                Columbia
                             University, 1928). There were Indiana women who published books in history
                            around the turn of the century (e.g., Julia Levering, Charity Dye, Mrs.
                            Thomas A. Hendricks), but they did not have professional training in history.
                  
                     3 U.S., Fourteenth Census, 1920, Population Schedules for 
                                Madison County
                            , Indiana; Indiana Works Progress Administration, comp., "Index to
                            Birth Records, 
                                Madison County
                            , 1882-1920 Inclusive" Vol. II, "Letters L-Z" (Genealogy
                            Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ). This volume is hereafter cited as 
                                Madison County
                             Birth Records. I am grateful to Paula Corpuz for finding this information.
                  INDIANA MAGMINE OF HISTORY, XCI (September, 1995). © 1995, Trustees of Indiana
                            University.
               
                     University in the 1920s—where her fellow students
                    included Hoagy Carmichael, Herman B Wells, and Ernie Pyle and where the atmosphere was electric with
                    the sense of challenging authority and renegotiating social conventions—followed by
                    sixty-five years in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Riker retained many of the marks of her small-town girlhood all her life.4 She was direct, friendly, unpretentious, Hoosier in voice and idiom,
                    indifferent to the surface markers of class. Riker was in a sense transparent, as few middle-class
                    urban persons now are. Raised a Presbyterian, she demonstrated a 
                        Puritan
                     sense of the godliness of service and neighborly obligation, as well as a fierce
                    devotion to righteousness. Her older sister, Susie, married and spent her life as a missionary in 
                        China
                    . Dorothy Riker's mission was historical research in the daytime and helping
                    her neighbors in the evenings and on weekends.5
            
            She was private (a necessary armor for transparent persons) and spoke little of her family, so that
                    it is impossible to know how they influenced her. She ceased to have access to them relatively early
                    in her life. Her mother died when she was fourteen. Her sister married and left the country. Her
                    father's remarriage, after his daughters went away to college, precipitated a permanent
                    breach between Dorothy and him.6 Riker was on her own from a relatively early
                    age, and she created her own community through service.
            It is not clear how the carpenter's third child came to have the resources to go to the
                    state university in 
                        Bloomington
                     in 1923, when she was nineteen; but she probably had help from someone for at least two
                    of her three undergraduate years because she was taking enormous course loads (eight courses per
                    semester in 1924-1925 followed by nine courses per semester in 1925-1926) during the regular school
                    years, as well as summer courses in 1925 and 1926. She earned her degree in three years, in 1926.7
            
            
               
                  4 For Indiana University in the mid-1920s see, for example, the Indiana
                        University yearbook, the Arbutus, 1924, 1925, 1926; and Herman B Wells, Being Lucky: Reminiscences and Reflections (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1980), chaps. 2 and 3.
               
                  5 Information on her Presbyterian upbringing from Indiana University
                        Graduate School records. U.S., Fourteenth Census, 1920, Population Schedules for 
                            Madison County
                        ; Shirley S. McCord, Indiana Historical Society, conversations with author. Hubert
                        H. Hawkins, emeritus executive secretary of the Indiana Historical Society and emeritus
                        executive director of the Indiana Historical Bureau, commented recently about Riker that she
                        "epitomized what we like to think of as earlier nineteenth-century Hoosier values. Although she
                        was not vocal about her religious beliefs, she held them with profound tenacity. I cannot
                        imagine a situation in which Dorothy would have sacrificed a moral principle or what she
                        believed to be the truth for any other consideration." Hubert H. Hawkins, conversation
                        with author, June 22, 1995. Riker's denominational affiliation in 
                            Indianapolis
                         was with the Church of the Nazarene.
               
                  6 Little is known about Riker's brother. Shirley S. McCord and
                        Paula Corpuz, conversations with author; 
                            Madison County
                         Death Records. Thanks to Paula Corpuz for researching these records.
               
                  7 Dorothy L. Riker, Indiana University transcript.
            
            
            The popular culture of the 1920s pressured young women to reject their mothers’ model of
                    adulthood in exchange for sexual adventurousness, an intensified emphasis on professional attention
                    to physical appearance (beauty salons for haircuts, permanent waves, makeup), and economic
                    independence. Riker's homegrown, small-town, 
                        Puritan
                     character rejected the flapper model; the red-haired senior in the 1926 Arbutus has a rather grim look about her and a slightly truculent jaw. But she was clearly
                    headed for economic independence. Her rather heroic course of study centered around her history
                    major, but she also equipped herself to teach mathematics and history at the high school level.8
            
            Riker took her first history course in her second year, when she accelerated her pace of study. After
                    an introductory semester studying southern history with William O. Lynch and the general 
                        United States
                     history course with Albert L. Kohlmeier, she enrolled in four history courses the
                    second semester; included were the second halves of the medieval and modern history surveys and the
                    Greek and Roman history course. She took six more history courses the next year, four of them with
                    F. Lee Benns in modern European history (including a two-semester "seminary"). She
                    was clearly enthusiastic about history and did consistently excellent work in it. The question was
                    how she could make a living doing it.9
            
            Public education was a rapidly expanding part of the American economy in the 1920s, a trend that
                    reflected both an enormous increase in the national population in preceding decades and the
                    increasing use of public high schools to prepare an expanding middle class for business and
                    professional careers. Riker's intention to become a high school history and mathematics
                    teacher was both shrewd and fairly ambitious, but she rather quickly decided it was not ambitious
                    enough. She taught history and government at Frankton High School, not far from 
                        Elwood
                    , for one year; but she decided it did not suit her and went back to the university for
                    graduate work in history instead.10
            
            It is not obvious what Riker's professional goals were when she went to graduate school to
                    study history. Perhaps she was "testing the waters," contemplating the possibility of a
                    Ph.D. and an academic 
                  
                            8
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     9
                            Ibid.; Indiana University Bulletin, XXII (1924), XXIII
                            (1925), XXIV (1926); Dorothy L. Riker to Professor Albert L. Kohlmeier, May 22, 1953, in
                            "Albert Ludwig Kohlmeier: An Appreciation," 1953, Albert L. Kohlmeier Papers,
                            William Lowe Bryan Collection (Indiana University Archives, 
                                Bloomington
                            ).
                  
                     10 Ruegamer, History of the Indiana Historical
                            Society, 231. For an overview of public education in Indiana in the 1920s, see James H.
                            Madison, Indiana through Tradition and Change: A History of the Hoosier State
                                and Its People, 1920-1945 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1982), 263-83, esp. 263-64 and 274-78. Riker considered graduate school at the
                            University of 
                                Chicago
                            , but she never attended. Dorothy L. Riker to Dean David A. Rothrock, Indiana
                            University, April 23, 1927, Dorothy L. Riker folder, Bryan Collection; Registrar's
                            Office, University of 
                                Chicago
                            , telephone conversation with author, July, 1995.
               
                     position, although looking around her she would have seen very
                    few women in faculty positions outside of home economics and "physical education for women" at
                    Indiana University.11 Possibly she hoped to get a teaching position in a larger,
                    more prestigious high school than Frankton's. In any event she was part of a remarkable
                    surge in women's pursuit of graduate studies in history in the 1920s. Nationally, women
                    earned almost 22 percent of the doctorates awarded in history in the 1920s, a proportion that
                    remained unequaled until recent decades. Although Indiana University granted no doctorate in history
                    to a woman until 1934 (and relatively few to men before then), women earned 37 percent of the
                    master's degrees awarded in history at I.U. between 1928 and 1935, more women in that
                    seven-year period than had done so in the preceding thirty-four years.12 The New
                    Era prosperity combined with the promise of new potentialities for enfranchised and liberated women
                    made graduate work seem to be a more attractive alternative for women in the 1920s than it would be
                    again for many decades to come.
            Riker received encouragement from the history department in her decision to return to graduate
                    school. She was well known to most of them through classwork and through her participation in the
                    History and Political Science Club (which she had addressed on "Cavour" in her senior year). The
                    department awarded her an assistantship 
                  
                     11 The Indiana University Bulletin for 1926, for
                            example, showed that the only women full professors were one each in home economics and
                            physical education and the dean of women. There was one acting professor of Latin. There
                            were three associate professors (mathematics, romance languages, and home economics). There
                            were twelve assistant professors, of whom five were in home economics and physical
                            education. There were sixteen instructors, of whom six were in home economics and physical
                            education. There were no women faculty at any level in history. Indiana University Bulletin, XXIV (1926).
                  
                     12 Jacqueline Goggin, "Challenging Sexual Discrimination in
                            the Historical Profession: Women Historians and the American Historical Association,
                            1890—1940," American Historical Review, XCVII (June,
                            1992), 771; Edgerton, "A Bibliography of Theses"; Indiana University
                            Library, Reference Department, comp., "A Bibliography of Theses Submitted to
                            Indiana University for Advanced Degrees, 1927-1935." Ruth Stephens was the first
                            woman to earn a Ph.D. in history at Indiana University; her 1934 dissertation was
                            "Diplomatic History of the Prussian-American Treaties of 1785, 1799, and 1828."
                            Only sixteen men had earned the Ph.D. at Indiana by 1935. Women earned 41 of the 104
                            master's degrees awarded in history between 1921 and 1930 and 39 of the 108
                            master's degress awarded between 1931 and 1940. Because of the virtual
                            disappearance of men from graduate school during World War II, women earned 22 of 43
                            master's degrees in history awarded at I.U. between 1941 and 1945. Only after World
                            War II did women's participation in graduate work dwindle significantly in relation
                            to men's. In the 1950s women earned only 16 percent of the advanced degrees awarded
                            in history at I.U., and this figure dwindled to 11 percent in the 1960s. I.U. Library,
                            "Bibliography of Theses," 1935-1940, 1941-1945, 1946-1950, 1951-1955,
                            1956-1960, 1961, 1962, 1963, 1964, 1965, 1966, 1967, 1968, 1969, 1970-1971. In the 1970s
                            women returned to graduate work in history in larger numbers; by 1992 women earned 34
                            percent of all Ph.D.'s in history granted in the 
                                United States
                            . Ibid., 1971-1972, 1972-1973, 1973-1974, 1974-1975; Susan
                            Kingsley 
                                Kent
                            , "Report of the 1994 Committee on Women Historians," Perpectives: American Historical Association Newsletter, XXXIII (March,
                            1995), 25.
               
                     for 1927-1928 to help with H101, the general European history
                    survey; it paid her fees plus two hundred dollars for the year.13
                    Riker's graduate work for the master's degree was focused on America and modern
                    Europe; she took only one course (a seminar in medieval history) outside the modern Atlantic area.
                    She continued to study with Benns, who probably oversaw her thesis on "
                        England
                    's Relation to Europe, 1912-14" and took courses with Kohlmeier, Lynch, William
                    T. Morgan, Logan Esarey, and John C. Andressohn. Her work was deemed consistently excellent by
                    everyone with whom she studied (she was one of 37 out of 204 graduate students in the university to
                    receive all A's the first semester), and she was awarded a master's degree June
                    11, 1928. She immediately enrolled in two more history courses in summer school.14
            
            Did she contemplate a Ph.D.? She was still receiving support from the history department (an
                    assistantship for H105, the 
                        United States
                     history survey), a fact which suggests that the department expected her to go on;
                    however, her course work for her second year in graduate school suggests some indecision. She seemed
                    briefly to have considered an advanced degree in education (she took four courses in education the
                    first semester and only one in history) but did not follow this up. Riker was obviously at a
                    crossroads in 1928-1929, not sure what to do next. She was a successful and resourceful student,
                    with a growing self-confidence and worldliness. (It is with a small shock that one who knew her as
                    an older woman learns that in 1929 the young Dorothy was the featured final speaker at the History
                    and Political Science Club annual banquet, where she spoke on "George 
                        Washington
                     as Lover and Husband.") She had been earning her living with the
                    assistantships and by tutoring football players. Did she aspire to teach in a college if one could
                    have been found to hire her? I have no evidence with which to answer the question. What was found for Riker was a job she later described as "the best job in the world":
                    historical editing for the small, state-supported Indiana Historical Bureau.15
            
            In 1928-1929 Indiana's commitment to a state-supported historical agency was relatively
                    recent, an outgrowth of the plans for celebrating the centennial of statehood in 1916. In 1925 the
                    agency, originally the Indiana Historical Commission (IHC), became a bone 
                  
                     13 Albert L. Kohlmeier to William Lowe Bryan, September 15, 1927,
                            Kohlmeier Papers; Minutes, History and Political Science Club, February 11, 1926, p. 147
                            (Indiana University Archives, 
                                Bloomington
                            ).
                  
                     14 LP to Dorothy L. Riker, March 10, 1928, Dorothy Riker folder, Bryan
                            Collection; Riker, Indiana University transcript; Indiana University Bulletin, XXVI (1928), XXVII (1929); I.U. Library, "A Bibliography of Theses,
                            1927-1935."
                  
                     15 Albert L. Kohlmeier to President William Lowe Bryan, September 22,
                            1928, Kohlmeier Papers; Riker, Indiana University transcript; Minutes, History and Political
                            Science Club, February 14, 1929. Information about Riker's tutoring football
                            players and quotation from Riker that she had "the best job in the world from Shirley S.
                            McCord, conversation with author, June 6, 1995.
               
                     of contention between the Indiana University History
                    Department, which had a strong program in researching and collecting state history, and the
                    venerable and elite (but small) Indiana Historical Society (IHS), based in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The university's principal researcher in Indiana history, Professor Logan
                    Esarey, made a bid to have the IHC transferred to 
                        Bloomington
                     under his part-time direction. Such a move would have been in line with other
                    midwestern historical agencies, which generally had strong connections with state universities. But
                    Esarey faced a formidable obstacle: the commission had just appointed a new director, the
                    well-connected Christopher B. Coleman, long-time IHS member, professionally trained historian
                    (Ph.D., 
                        Columbia
                    ), and experienced administrator. Coleman and Esarey were a study in contrasts: the
                    former, with his Yale background and family heritage of professional status, was a midwestern
                    aristocrat; the latter was a small-town Hoosier, I.U.'s first Ph.D. in history, as rumpled
                    and rustic as Coleman was graceful and urbane.16 Coleman had also been elected
                    IHS executive secretary in 1924, and the influential Society was not prepared to see the commission
                    removed to 
                        Bloomington
                    , thus depriving Coleman of the leadership of the state's historical work.
                    Esarey's proposal was rejected; instead of the IHC's moving to 
                        Bloomington
                    , it was consolidated with the Indiana State Library and renamed the Indiana Historical
                    Bureau (IHB), under Coleman, in March, 1925.17
            
            Esarey lost more than his bid for the IHC in 1925. As a consequence of a dispute with Coleman and the
                    new Bureau's editor, Nellie C. Armstrong, whom Coleman hired to oversee the Indiana
                    Historical Collections series, Esarey ultimately lost his editorship of the Indiana
                        Magazine of History and his venue for publishing Indiana documentary editions.
            Armstrong (1896-1982) had worked under the prolific academic editors Clarence W. Alvord and Theodore
                    C. Pease in the prestigious 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Collections series after she completed an M.A. at 
                        Illinois
                     in 1919, and she was well-regarded by her mentors." In 1925, at
                    Coleman's behest, Armstrong proceeded to make editorial changes in Esarey's
                    manuscript for the James Brown Ray 
                  
                     16 Ruegamer, History of the Indiana Historical
                            Society, chaps. 4 and 5. For Logan Esarey see R. Carlyle Buley, "Logan Esarey,
                            Hoosier," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXVIII, (December, 1942),
                            337-81.
                  
                     17 Ruegamer, History of the Indiana Historical
                            Society, 135, 140-41.
                  
                     18 The author wishes to thank Paula Corpuz for supplying
                            Armstrong's death date. For views of Armstrong's work at 
                                Illinois
                             see Arthur C. Cole, ed., The Constitutional Debates of 1847
                                (Collections of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Library, Vol. XIV; 
                                Springfield
                            , Ill., 19191), iv; Clarence W. Alvord, ed., Governor Edward Coles
                                (Collections of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Library, Vol. XV; 
                                Springfield
                            , Ill., 1920), viii; Clarence W. Alvord and Clarence E. Carter, eds., Trade and Politics, 1767-1769 (Collections of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Library, Vol. XVI; 
                                Springfield
                            , Ill., 1921), iii.
               
                     papers, which he had submitted as part of the
                    governors’ papers series he had been editing for the Indiana Historical Collections.
                    Esarey, angered that his work was subjected to correction by his rival Coleman and by a woman whose
                    scholarly credentials were inferior to his own, refused to accept editorial changes. Coleman stood
                    behind his editor, and after harsh words and the intrusion of legal opinions about the ownership of
                    the manuscript, Esarey's work was returned to him, unpublished, in 1927. The I.U. professor
                    had won a pyrrhic victory in his refusal to accept the Bureau's editorial supervision of
                    his work.19
            
            When Esarey subsequently failed to persuade the university to discontinue the IMH's
                    connection with the Coleman-run Society, which constituted the IMH's principal base of
                    subscribers, his resignation as editor was accepted as of the end of 1927. His colleagues had
                    decided that Esarey had become an obstacle to the goal of better relations between the university
                    and the Buread/Society. For Esarey it must have been a crushing blow. He lost control both of the
                    magazine he had brought to the forefront of state history journals during his editorship (1913-1927)
                    and of the governors’ papers series he had inaugurated for the IHC.20
            
            Coleman hired Riker as the IHB research assistant a year and a half after Esarey edited his last
                    issue of the IMH. Coleman probably asked Lynch, the new editor of the magazine, to recommend
                    someone—he probably specified a woman—to work as Armstrong's research
                    assistant in the Bureau's Indiana Historical Collections series. Coleman's request
                    was probably intended and perceived as a peace offering. Riker was undoubtedly the best candidate
                    for the job. She was an outstanding graduate student who had worked successfully with virtually
                    everyone in the Indiana University department. She had studied midwestern history with Esarey, who
                    could recommend her both professionally and personally, since he also knew her as the good friend
                    and roommate of his niece Essa Maria Esarey, of Oriole, Indiana (who was also doing graduate work
                    and who remained Riker's lifelong friend).21
            
            
               
                  19 Ruegamer, History of the Indiana Historical Society,
                        148-49. The details of this conflict from Coleman's point of view are available in
                        copies of correspondence from 1926 to 1928 between Coleman and Esarey, Professor James A.
                        Woodburn and Coleman, and various members of the Library and Historical Department Board, along
                        with Coleman's report to the Board, June 30, 1928. "Library and Historical
                        Board, 1928" folder, Box 5, Correspondence, Records of the Indiana Historical Bureau (Archives
                        Division, Indiana Commission on Public Records, Indiana State Library and Historical Building, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ).
               
                  20
                        Ibid., 149-50. Esarey had earlier published two volumes of the William Henry
                        Harrison papers (1922) and one volume containing the papers of Jonathan Jennings, Ratliff Boon,
                        and William Hendricks (1924) in the governors’ papers series of the Indiana
                        Historical Collections.
               
                  21 Information about Essa Esarey from Shirley S. McCord, conversation with
                        author, June 6, 1995. See also The Red Book: The Official Student Handbook of
                            Indiana University (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 19281, 87, 171.
            
            
            It was an unusually serendipitous match. Riker found a mission. The impecunious Bureau found a
                    selfless, joyful worker who was also a well-trained and talented historian. And Indiana University
                    had installed one of its own in the IHB. Dorothy Riker was the university's gift to the
                    Bureau. When I suggested this interpretation of the meaning of Dorothy's coming to the
                    Bureau, Hubert H. Hawkins, Bureau/Society leader from 1953 to 1976, offered a pleasing analogy with
                    Homeric wars: Dorothy was a sort of princess from 
                        Bloomington
                     sent to 
                        Indianapolis
                     as a hostage and token of peaceful intentions. Certainly Riker retained a strong sense
                    of identification with the I.U. department; in the aftermath of her estrangement from her father,
                    the history department became a sort of family for her, as she acknowledged several decades later in
                    a tribute to Kohlmeier: 
                        Through the years the History Department at Indiana University and the ideas and ideals for
                            which it has stood have been a source of refuge and strength, like the home to which the
                            young person looks back for encouragement and help—a place where you know there
                            are persons interested in you and expecting you to do your best This has meant more to me
                            than words can ever express.
                     In October, 1930, Coleman wrote to the Indiana State Library and Historical Bureau,
                    "we ought by all means to retain Miss Riker as she is a real
                    ‘find."’ In November Lynch ended a reply to a letter from Riker,
                    "I am glad that you are in love with your work."22
            
            Riker found her life's work in 1929 just in time to be sheltered from the long storm of the
                    Great Depression. Although she worked for little ($1,800 per year for a decade, with
                    occasional reductions in salary when the legislature voted to cut state budgets),
                    she was economically independent and better off than most. Her graduate work in history had led her
                    to an independent life of service and intellectual fulfillment.23
            
            Scholarly editions of historical documents were among the highest priorities of professional
                    historians from the earliest days of the profession. Before research grants, microforms, and
                    photocopying (not to mention the wonders that lie before us on the internet), 
                  
                     22 Hubert H. Hawkins, conversation with author, June 22, 1995; Riker
                            to Kohlmeier, May 22, 1953, in "Albert Ludwig Kohlmeier: An Appreciation,"
                            Kohlmeier Papers; Christopher B. Coleman to William P. Dearing, October 15, 1930,
                            "Library and Historical Department, 1928" folder, Box 5, Correspondence, Records of
                            the Indiana Historical Bureau; William O. Lynch to Dorothy L. Riker, November 14, 1930,
                            "Indiana Magazine of History" folder. Editor's correspondence, ibid.
                  
                  
                     23 Financial Statement of the Historical Bureau, October 21, 1930,
                            "Library and Historical Department, May, 1928" folder, Box 5, Correspondence,
                            Records of the Indiana Historical Bureau; Salary Schedule of the Historical Bureau,
                            September 27, 1932, "Library and Historical Department, May, 1931-September, 1932"
                            folder, Box 5, Correspondence, ibid.; Department of Education, Historical
                            Bureau, June 20, 1939, and Salary Schedule, 1935-1936, "Historical Bureau, 1931"
                            folder, Box 4, Correspondence, ibid. The General Assembly's
                            salary reduction act in 1933 reduced Riker's salary by 5.5 percent. In 1939 she was
                            earning $1,707, less than she had earned in 1929. Ibid.
                  
               
                     published documents were essential to the historical
                    enterprise, and publishing them was among the chief duties of historical agencies such as the
                    Bureau. Riker was trained in historical editing by Armstrong.24
            
            It is not clear how much Coleman involved himself in his editorial staffs work, but circumstantial
                    evidence would suggest it was not much. He was an overworked man for most of his tenure with the
                    Bureau, especially during the six-year period when he was running the State Library (1936-1942) in
                    addition to running the Bureau and the Society.25 He usually signed the
                    introductions to the Collections volumes. He was often the official correspondent with authors. But
                    Coleman's name never appeared as editor on any of the Collections publications, and it
                    seems unlikely, with Armstrong and Riker on his staff, that he did more than act as official
                    correspondent to save the dignity of authors reluctant to accept the authority of women.
            Coleman, a seasoned executive, chose his editorial staff carefully and expressed strong confidence in
                    them. The result was a tradition of strong editors with unusual autonomy. Coleman observed in the
                    1930s, in response to an advice-seeking letter from the 
                        North Carolina
                     Deparment of Archives and History, that the State Library and Historical Board took
                    relatively little interest in the Bureau beyond approving salaries;26 with
                    Coleman himself ready to delegate authority to his editors, this left them a somewhat free hand. The
                    Bureau's editors also had strong support from the Indiana Historical Society's
                    publications committee, which by the 1940s included Armstrong. While there were some high-powered,
                    vivid personalities on the committee, both professionals and amateurs with strong interests in
                        history—e.g., Herman B Wells, Lyman Ayres, Eli Lilly, John D.
                    Barnhart, and John P. Goodwin, all served on the committee at various times—they were
                    consistently responsive to the editors' recommendations about what to publish. Hawkins
                    recalled recently that he believed the committee had never failed to approve a project recommended
                    to them by the editors in the period of his leadership of the Bureau and Society, 1953-1976.27 The Bureau's first editor, Armstrong, was a composed and elegant
                    woman, at ease with the Society's elite leaders; she established a precedent of editorial
                    leadership that was to devolve 
                  
                     24 Peter Novick, That Noble Dream: The "Objectivity
                                Question" and the American Historical Profession (
                        Cambridge, England
                     , 1988), 39, 174-75; John Higham, History:
                                Professional Scholarship in America (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1983), 22; Ruegamer, "Gayle Thornbrough and the Indiana Historical
                            Society," 275.
                  
                     25 Ruegamer, History of the Indiana Historical
                            Society, 177.
                  
                     26 Christopher B. Coleman to Dr. A. R. Newsome, secretary, 
                                North Carolina
                             Historical Commission, February 17, 1931, "Historical Bureau,
                            1931," Box 4, Correspondence, Records of the Indiana Historical Bureau.
                  
                     27 Hubert Hawkins, conversation with author, June 22, 1995.
               
                     upon Riker and Gayle Thornbrough, who joined the enterprise as
                    a Society editor in 1937.28
            
            The leadership of Indiana's state history publications program by women M.A.'s with
                    no male academic historians’ oversight was not, so far as I have been able to determine,
                    typical. While women "assistants" with M.A.'s may well have been de facto
                    editors of historical publishing programs such as those of 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , the de jure editors had close ties with universities. (Louise P.
                    Kellogg at the State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , an unusual woman editor, had both a Ph.D. and close ties to the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Department of History.)29
            
            The Indiana women editors' relative autonomy reflected several circumstances. First, the
                    women were unusually capable persons. As Hawkins put it recently, "The editors were good
                    historians who had weight appropriate to their merit." (He went on to describe them as the
                    dominant factors in the publishing program.) Like Riker, Thornbrough was an outstanding
                    student—in her case, at 
                        Butler
                     and in graduate work at the University of 
                        Michigan
                    . As for Riker, by the 1950s it was clear that no one knew Indiana history better than
                    she; her command of the documentary sources and secondary literature of state history and her
                    knowledge of the resources of the State Library were unique. Everyone who did research on an Indiana
                    topic was advised to "check with Dorothy Riker" to make sure that no sources were overlooked. She
                    was notably generous with her knowledge; she did not see herself as a competitor with the scholars
                    who sought her out. Together, in her view, they were serving a larger end, a search for knowledge
                    and understanding.30
            
            Riker and Thornbrough's domination of Indiana state history publishing also reflected Bureau
                    directors' confidence in the two women. Like his predecessor Howard H. Peckham, Hawkins
                    respected their judgment. He noted recently that the editors were often influential even in
                    determining which projects were undertaken in the first place since prospective authors would
                    discuss ideas with one or both of them before undertaking research and would consult with them at
                    various stages of manuscript preparation. 
                  
                     28 Ruegamer, History of the Indiana Historical
                            Society, 230.
                  
                     29 For Rueben Gold Thwaites's program to encourage relations
                            between the State Historical Society of 
                                Wisconsin
                             and the University of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , see Clifford L. Lord and Carl Ubbelohde, Clio's Servant:
                                The State Historical Society of 
                                    Wisconsin
                                , 1846-1954 (
                                Madison
                            , 1967), 99-100. For Thwaites's women assistants at 
                                Wisconsin
                            , see ibid., 100, 138-40. The question has to arise as to
                            whether the principal difference between what Nellie Armstrong did at 
                                Illinois
                             and what she did in Indiana was that for the Bureau the documents she edited
                            bore her name as coeditor whereas at 
                                Illinois
                             she received acknowledgment in the preface while the academic editors received
                            the full credit for publications.
                  
                     30 Hawkins, conversation with author, June 22, 1995; Lana Ruegamer,
                            "Indiana Historical Society Salutes Dorothy Riker: Fifty Years an Indiana
                            Historian," Indiana History Bulletin, LVI (June, 1979),
                        85-87.
               
                     In decisions about which documents to publish, again the
                    editors chiefly determined the agenda, in consultation with the Bureau director. Hawkins recalled
                    three-way discussions with the editors, brainstorming publications possibilities. He urged
                    publishing materials with greater popular interest than the traditional governors' papers,
                    but the major say in determining publication belonged to the women editors.31
            
            The largest factor explaining the women's opportunity to shape publications in Indiana
                    history was the resistance of the Bureau/ Society to accepting the leadership of the academic
                    historians in 
                        Bloomington
                    . Esarey, as noted, lost his bid to move the Bureau to 
                        Bloomington
                     in 1925. President Herman B Wells and I.U. History Department head and Society
                    executive committee member Kohlmeier made another unsuccessful effort to acquire the Bureau in 1944,
                    after Coleman's death. The insistence of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     leaders of the Society that the Bureau remain in 
                        Indianapolis
                     preserved the women editors' autonomy, as well as preserving the powerful
                    influence of the Society's amateur historian board members. While the executive committee
                    was prepared to give lip service to the notion that the Bureau/Society should consult with the
                    history department about editing and publishing material in Indiana history, in fact the women
                    editors—Armstrong and Riker, until Armstrong's retirement in 1947, and then
                    Riker and Thornbrough—continued to play the major role in editing and publishing Indiana
                    historical monographs and documents.32
            
            At times, the relationship between the university and the Bureau was somewhat tense. It is likely,
                    however, that Riker's presence in the Bureau from 1929 to 1971 was a peacemaking one. With
                    her strong ties to the department that trained her and durable friendships with Kohlmeier, Lynch,
                    Esarey, R. C. Buley, and later with Barnhart, Riker's power in the Bureau perhaps partly
                    mollified the university's sense that their leadership had been evaded.
            As has been suggested by the foregoing, there were several kinds of historical editing undertaken by
                    Riker and her colleagues. The first, already mentioned, was consultation with authors about
                    potential manuscripts. The editors used their judgment about what would be valuable (and possible,
                    given available sources) to suggest the shape of proposed research. In the same vein the editors
                    evaluated completed manuscripts, often seeking the opinions of specialists before making their
                    decisions. Once manuscripts were accepted in principle, the editors often proposed revisions or
                    additions of various extensiveness to improve the clarity and/or usefulness of the work. The editors
                    performed normal copy-editing chores, correcting 
                  
                     31 Hawkins, conversation with author, June 22, 1995.
                  
                     32 Ruegamer, History of the Indiana Historical
                            Society, 179-80.
               
                     errors and infelicities of style and preparing the manuscript
                    for the printer. Historical editors, in addition, verified the research, so far as possible, by
                    checking the footnotes for accuracy in quotation and for their validity as evidence. In these
                    situations the editors nurtured an author and his or her document.
            There were, of course, conflicts. Hawkins recalled that Riker's steely integrity about her
                    sense of historical truth led on rare occasions to stand-offs with authors. It was his sense that,
                    while he and Thornbrough shared Riker's standards, Riker exhibited a distinctively moral
                    passion for historical truth that reflected her essentially religious view of the world.
            Riker was most noted as a documentary editor. She edited or coedited some of the most admired and
                    useful documents published by the Bureau and the Society, including Laws of Indiana
                        Territory, 1809-1816 (1934), Executive Proceedings of the State of Indiana,
                        1816-1836 (1947), The John Tiplon Papers (3 vols., 1942), Journals of the General Assembly of Indiana Territory, 1805-1815 (1950), Indiana Election Returns, 1816-1851 (19601, and three volumes of the messages and papers
                    of Indiana governors (those of James Brown Ray, Noah Noble, and David Wallace). This partial list
                    represents an enormous body of scholarship. It is not too much to say that Riker was responsible for
                    publishing more scholarship on the documents of Indiana political history than anyone else. Indiana
                    University's gift to the Bureau (or hostage/princess, if you will) was the most productive
                    single researcher in the field of Indiana political history for fifty years. She was rivaled only by
                    her colleague Gayle Thornbrough in any area of Indiana history. Unlike academic historians, of
                    course, Riker and Thornbrough were paid to do historical research, full time and year round, and
                    spent thcir working lives with ready access to most of the documents and secondary sources they
                    needed.
            This "best job in the world" entailed identifying important kinds of documents to
                    publish; selecting and arranging documents, following scrupulous analysis of their meaning and
                    completeness; annotating the documents to clarify obscure references and identify individuals;
                    placing the documents in their context by way of introduction; copy-editing the manuscript;
                    and—in some ways most importantly—creating an analytical and accurate index to
                    make the documents easily usable by researchers.33
            
            While Riker spent most of her career editing documents of state building, her last eight years she
                    joined with Thornbrough in editing the diary of Calvin Fletcher, one of the most impressive personal
                        
                  
                     33 Among Riker's earliest assignments was the creation of an
                            index, published in 1930, to the first twenty-five volumes of the IMH. An excellent
                            preparation for her career in Indiana history, the assignment not only taught Riker herself
                            what had been published, it permitted her lo create an intelligent and accurate resource
                            tool for subsequent scholars.
               
                     documents in American letters. Fletcher, a 
                        Vermont
                    -born lawyer and pillar of 
                        Indianapolis
                     from its early days, kept a detailed diary from 1817 to 1866, making it not only the
                    richest single source in Indiana history (with the possible exception of newspapers) for the period
                    it covers, but also, because of its author's intelligence, energy, and habits of
                    reflection, one of the great American diaries. Riker brought the wealth of forty-plus years of
                    knowledge to her part of this last big project for the women editors, and both used the project to
                    train Paula Corpuz, their younger colleague, who joined them as a full editor within a few years. It
                    was a splendid last "hurrah" as each woman headed into retirement.
            Riker's work on the Fletcher diary reflected her interest in the documents associated with
                    social history and the lives of ordinary persons, a consistent part of her passion for historical
                    truth. The same interest prompted her to support genealogy and the efforts of ordinary persons to be
                    their own historians. Riker was an influential member of the genealogy committee of the Indiana
                    Historical Society and of the Family History Section which succeeded it. She used her experience
                    with historical documents to provide authoritative transcriptions of birth, death, and marriage
                    records from a wide variety of sources in the conviction that the broader the popular interest in
                    history the more likely it was that historical documents would be preserved and in friendly sympathy
                    with genealogists as fellow seekers of the elusive past.34
            
            Unlike her editorial colleagues, Riker also produced an important monograph, Indiana to
                        1816. Although she was listed as coauthor, with John D. Barnhart (1895-1967), of the first
                    volume of the multivolume history of Indiana published jointly by the Bureau and the Society
                    (1965-), it was widely known that Barnhart's manuscript, prepared during the ordeal of the
                    long illness before his death, was essentially unusable. While Riker researched and rewrote the
                    book, she was influenced by Barnhart's earlier works and benefited from his research.
                    Moreover, she had respected and liked the man; she felt it was appropriate to acknowledge him and
                    insisted that he be credited with coauthorship.35 Perhaps, too, this was a
                    continuing part of the peacemaking role she played with the Indiana University History Department.
                    By deferring to Barnhart, she signaled her continuing loyalty to the department that trained her.
            
               
                  34 There are frequent notices in the Indiana History
                        Bulletin of Riker's membership or chairmanship of the genealogy committee; see,
                            e.g., XX (March, 1943), 82. For Riker's support of the revived
                        genealogical committee of the Society in the 1950s and 1960s, the author relied on conversations
                        with Hubert Hawkins. Riker's genealogical publications are extensive.
               
                  35 Information about Riker's responsibility for Indiana to 1816 from Shirley S. McCord, conversation with author, June 6, 1995, and
                        Hubert H. Hawkins, conversation with author, June 22, 1995. Information about Riker's
                        wish to credit Barnhart from Hawkins, ibid.
               
            
            
            Riker was the logical choice to prepare the volume on the territorial period by virtue of her
                    documentary works on territorial laws and the legislative journals. She had also published an early
                    paper on Francis Vigo, demonstrating her acquaintance with Revolutionary War materials. She knew
                    French, and her personal interest in the period had prompted her to read widely in the secondary
                        literature.36 Nevertheless, it was a daunting assignment. She was required
                    to provide an authoritative account of a geographic entity not yet meaningfully defined for most of
                    the period covered: Indiana did not yet exist, in any form, for eight of the thirteen chapters. The
                    assignment covered an enormous time period (prehistory to 1816) and three colonial
                    regimes—the French, the British, and the: American. Riker demonstrated command of a
                    significantly more extensive body of material than that required of the other authors of the
                    series' volumes. Fortunately, she had help: Shirley S. McCord, the next generation of
                    Bureau editor, trained by Riker herself, was research assistant and chief copy editor for the
                        volume.37
            
            Riker produced a fine monograph, praised in scholarly journals as "straightforward and
                    authoritative," "scholarly, impressively researched, and lucidly
                    presented." It contained, said one reviewer, "interpretation and information
                    … not found in other books." Some reviewers complained that her approach was
                    "very traditional … with a strong emphasis on political, diplomatic and military
                    history" and failed to place Indiana's experience in comparative context. All
                    called attention to Riker's bibliography. Sidney Glazer of 
                        Wayne
                     State University in the Journal of American History found it
                    "almost impossible to find adequate words of praise for the exhaustive, well-organized, and
                    helpful bibliography."38 It was her last work for the Bureau, from
                    which she retired in 1971 at age sixty-six, before moving to the Society for eight more years on the
                    Fletcher diary.
            Editors provide a service to the historical profession. As James Franklin Jameson put it, they are
                    "making bricks without much idea of how the architects will use them, but believing that
                    the best architect that ever was cannot get along without bricks, and therefore trying to make good
                        ones."39 Riker and her editorial colleagues 
                  
                     36 Dorothy Riker, "Francis Vigo," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVI (March, 1930), 12-24; Riker, Indiana University
                            transcript; Shirley S. McCord, conversation with author, June 6, 1995.
                  
                     37 Dorothy L. Riker. "Preface," in John D. Barnhart
                            and Dorothy L. Riker, Indiana to 1816: The Colonial Period (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1971), vii-viii.
                  
                     38 William E. Foley, review, American Historical
                            Review, LXXIX (June, 1974), 843-44; Sidney Glazer, review, Journal of
                                American History, LVIII (March, 1972), 1007-1008; Larry R. Gerlach, review, 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 History, LXXXI (Winter, 1972), 64-65.
                  
                     39 Quoted in Higham, History, 25.
               
                     did not acquire great reputations in the profession; Riker
                    never earned much. One of her deepest disappointments came in the 1950s when she decided she wanted
                    to buy a house. She was turned down for a mortgage loan "because she was a
                        woman."40 She lived in a small and modest apartment until she moved
                    to a retirement home in her eighties.
            Most of the women who earned advanced degrees in history in the 1920s, even those who earned
                    doctorates, wound up in service jobs, in high schools, libraries and archives, and
                    teachers' colleges, with a tiny elite teaching in women's colleges. In her study
                    of the period 1890-1940 Jacqueline Goggin has documented a regular pattern of discrimination against
                    women in faculty recruitment and hiring at universities, coeducational colleges, and men's
                    colleges similar to the discrimination noted by Peter Novick against males who were Jewish, black,
                    or (except in Catholic institutions) Roman Catholic in the same time period.41
                    Indeed, Goggin shows a decline in academic opportunities for women with doctorates between 1930 and
                    1970, a decline that reflected the depression of the 1930s, the national emergency of war in the
                    1940s, and the fervid domesticity of the postwar period.
            So, despite the optimistic degree seeking of would-be women historians in the 1920s, for most of the
                    twentieth century they were excluded from academe and were suffered to serve only along the margins
                    of the profession, usually in settings that increasingly assumed the atmosphere of the trenches as
                    the century wore on: embattled public high schools and defensive teachers' colleges and
                    schools of education. In the context of the last third of the twentieth century, with an expanded
                    national commitment to the democratization of American culture and the general agreement that all
                    should aspire to the privileges earlier accorded only to white males, the denial of the privileges
                    of the academy to all women and to male members of traditionally despised groups seems profoundly
                    unjust. But this late-twentieth century categorization of the fate of women such as Dorothy
                    Riker—as victims of an entrenched prejudice against women—seems unfaithful to
                    Riker's own sense of the significance of her life.
            To assess her life by a careerist standard—by how much power, prestige, money she achieved
                    in comparison to (by definition "privileged") male historians—is to
                    distort its meaning for her and her contemporaries. Riker took pride in what she did; she believed
                    that her editorial work was as significant a contribution to the profession as university teaching,
                    and she knew that she did it outstandingly well. Moreover, she subscribed to an ethic of service;
                    the point 
                  
                     40 Shirley S. McCord, conversation with author.
                  
                     41 Goggin, "Challenging Sexual Discrimination in the
                            Historical Profession," 769-802; Novick, That Noble Dream,
                            173-74, 231-32, 338-39, 365-66, 472-73.
               
                     for Riker was not to lay up treasures on earth. She was a
                    relentless and cheerful do-gooder (in a homey, personal, neighborly way—she was always
                    running errands for "the old people," as she called them when she herself was
                    eighty) as well as a creative and fertile researcher; both doing good and doing history were her
                    passions.
            Riker rejected much of what twentieth-century American culture told her was important in favor of a
                    life of scholarship cloistered in the Indiana State Library, dividing her love between the documents
                    of the past and the people she found around her. What looked like the margins of the historical
                    profession from some perspectives looked like a splendid life's mission to Riker. For her,
                    history was a calling, and her joy was that she was chosen.
            When chosen, she was not found wanting. Expanded opportunities for professional training in history
                    for women in the early twentieth century opened doors for Riker and her fellow women editors at the
                    Bureau; they came in and, taking advantage of a male contest for power, ruled. Their regime was a
                    distinguished one.
         
         
         
            To the Black Hills Gold Fields: The Letters of Samuel M. Zent, Hoosier Prospector, 1875-1876
            
                    Edited by Jeffrey L. Patrick
                    *
                
            In July, 1874, legendary Indian fighter Lieutenant Colonel George Armstrong Custer led his Seventh 
                        United States
                     Cavalry Regiment on a mission into the Black Hills of the Dakotas, ostensibly to find a
                    site for a new military post. A second assignment of this expedition, however, was to confirm or
                    deny long existing rumors, never formally investigated, of rich gold deposits in the region. Within
                    a few weeks the release of Custer's reports on his findings supported the belief that gold
                    indeed existed in the Black Hills, and a nation caught in an economic depression was swept with
                    gold-hunting hysteria.
            Unfortunately for would-be white adventurers, federal officials recognized the claims of Lakotas,
                    Yanktons, Yanktonais, and a number of neighboring tribes to some 60,000,000 acres in the Black Hills
                    region, including all of modern South Dakota west of the Missouri River, by the
                    terms of the Fort Laramie Treaty negotiated in 1868 and ratified the following year. Legally, the
                    military was bound by the provisions of the treaty to keep all whites out of this "Great
                    Sioux Reservation." The stage was thus set for confrontation between American soldiers and
                    civilians as the army faced the overwhelming task of preventing large numbers of prospectors, men
                    determined to take their chances by challenging the military, from invading the Black Hills.
            One of those who ventured into the Hills during 1875 and 1876 was Hoosier Samuel Zent. In early 1875
                    Zent joined the Gordon Expedition, a group that left 
                  Sioux
                        City, Iowa
               , for the gold
                    fields, was intercepted by 
                        United States
                     troops on the way, and was roughly handled by the soldiers. Turned back but undaunted,
                    Zent journeyed to the Dakota Territory in 1876 and actually did pan for gold, only to give up a few
                    months later when he failed to find substantial deposits.
            Fortunately for historians, Zent sent to his hometown Indiana newspaper, the 
                        Ligonier
                    
                    National Banner, several letters that 
                  
                     * Jeffrey L. Patrick holds an M.A. in history from Purdue
                            University, West 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana, and is a resident of 
                        Springfield, Missouri
                     .
                            He would like to thank Robert J. Zent of 
                                Roanoke
                            , Indiana, for his generous loan of material relating to his relative Colonel
                            Samuel M. Zent.
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, XCI (September, 1995) © 1995, Trustees of Indiana
                            University.
               
                     detailed his experiences with the Gordon Expedition and his
                    subsequent adventures as an independent prospector. In two letters written while he was a member of
                    the Gordon party, Zent recounted the trials of the trek and the harsh treatment at the hands of
                    American troops, thus documenting a virtually forgotten episode of western history. Writing
                    subsequent letters from various points during his second trip west, Zent related the difficulties
                    experienced by green miners and detailed the rapidly changing environment of the Dakota Territory in
                    the mid-1870s. He left a rare contemporary record of the experiences of a tenderfoot Hoosier
                    correspondent seeking his fortune in an alien land.1
            
            In early 1875 various army generals and their superiors in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., were determined to honor the Indian treaty and prevent prospectors from entering
                    the Black Hills. The military made an effort to dissuade miners by issuing less than glowing reports
                    on the existence of gold in the region. General Philip H. Sheridan, for instance, reported that
                    Custer's tests for gold deposits were "not sufficient to establish their existence
                    in large quantities." Unfortunately, in many cases this tactic failed. In addition, Custer
                    himself did not help the army's efforts. At first he wrote much the same as Sheridan,
                    noting that until further tests were done "no opinion should be formed" regarding
                    the richness of the gold.2 Later, he trumpeted that the gold reports
                    "are not exaggerated in the least; the prospects are even better than
                        represented."3 Despite such contradictory information many
                    newspapers and the public firmly believed the Black Hills area was a "New
                    Eldorado."
            Not every newspaper, however, was convinced that the rewards were worth the risks. One northeastern
                    Indiana paper, the 
                        Ligonier
                    
                    National Banner, jokingly called the Black Hills the area "where gold
                    grows on bushes." The editor went on to warn readers that the region must be covered with
                    snow almost half the year, that the nearest supplies were hundreds of miles away, and that miners
                    would have to resist the attacks of hundreds, even thousands, of Sioux warriors. Furthermore, the
                    area that contained gold rocks was small, benefiting few miners, and after exhausting the gold in
                    streams, miners would have to abandon the endeavor or find machinery, which was an impossibility.
                    All these factors combined 
                  
                     1 For another valuable account of Black Hills gold hunting, see Annie
                            D. Tallent, The Black Hills; or, the Last Hunting Ground of the Dakotahs
                            … (1899; Sioux Falls, S. D., 1974). Tallent was said to be the first white woman
                            to enter the Black Hills. In 1874-1875 she traveled with her husband in the Collins-Russell
                            party, the first organized expedition to leave 
                        Sioux
                                City, Iowa
                     , for the
                            gold fields following the Custer exploration. Watson Parker, Gold in the Black
                                Hills (
                                Norman
                            , Okla., 19661, 28-37; M. Lisle Reese, South Dakota: A Guide to the
                                State (
                                New York
                            , 1952), 277.
                  
                     2 Erik McKinley Eriksson, "
                                Sioux City
                             and the Black Hills Gold Rush, 1874-77," 
                        
                                    Iowa
                                 Journal of History and Politics, XX (July, 1922), 322-23.
                  
                     3 Quoted in Robert M. Utley, Cavalier in Buckskin: George
                                Armstrong Custer and the Western Military Frontier (
                                Norman
                            , Okla., 1988), 140.
               
                     to make the Black Hills "not as desirable as those
                    afflicted with the gold fever would persuade … only the persons who are called
                    ‘far sighted,’ out of compliment we suppose, can pass judgement as to the
                    exact date" when gold could be expected from the region. The paper urged "serious
                    consideration" by any wishing to go there.4 The 
                        New York
                    
                    Times echoed these sentiments, stating that less gold could be found in the Black
                    Hills than in the mountains of 
                        Virginia
                     or 
                        Vermont
                    , "where there is known to be a little."5
            
            With efforts to minimize the presence of gold in large quantities unsuccessful in many instances, the
                    military turned to a threat of force, clearly stating its intention to block physically the attempts
                    of whites to enter the Sioux region. The commanding general of the army, William Tecumseh Sherman,
                    told a reporter in 
                        St. Louis
                     on March 11, 1875, that all miners would be kept out and that those who happened to
                    slip through would be driven out. These instructions to his troops would be "carried out by
                    force of arms if necessary," for, he said, the "integrity of the treaty with the
                    Sioux will be maintained at all hazards."6 Sherman further explained to
                    the reporter that the miners had no more right to enter Sioux lands than to "make a descent
                    upon the property of you or me, and carry off what they find of value." He threatened that
                    the miners, once driven off, would forfeit all their equipment.7
            
            The Gordon expedition that challenged Sherman and the 
                        United States
                     Army came into being on March 5, 1875. On that date the 
                        Sioux City
                     and Black Hills Transportation Company was formed and hired John Gordon (veteran of a
                    successful gold foray into the Hills the year before) as guide. Slated for departure from
                            
                  Sioux City, Iowa
               , on April 5, the first "train" of gold seekers
                    was to be followed by others at regular intervals. The expeditions' route was to take them
                    west from 
                        Sioux City
                    , across northern 
                        Nebraska
                    , to the Niobrara River, about seventy-five miles from its mouth.
                    There they would turn northwest to the yet-to-be-established town of 
                        Gordon City
                    , in present-day 
                  Sheridan County, Nebraska
               , about fifty miles southeast of the
                    Black Hills. Heavy rains delayed the departure of the Gordon column until April 13, but on that day
                    about 150 men, 47 wagons, and between 70 and 80 teams headed west under John Gordon.8
            
            
               
                  4
                        
                            Ligonier
                        , Indiana, National Banner, September 10, 1874.
               
                  5
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, April 19, 1875.
               
                  6
                        Ibid., March 13, 1875.
               
                  7 Grant K. Anderson, "The Black Hills Exclusion Policy: Judicial
                        Challenges," 
                     
                                Nebraska
                             History, LVIII (Spring, 19771, 3-4.
               
                  8
                        Ibid., 2-4. 
                            Sioux City
                         was touted as "the great natural route to the Northwest" and the
                        nearest base of supplies to the gold fields, with good country existing between the town and the
                        Black Hills. Eriksson, "
                            Sioux City
                         and the Black Hills Gold Rush," 324. Sources disagree as to the starting
                        date of the Gordon party. One source states that they were ferried across the Missouri
                            River on April 25 and got under way the following day. The April 13 date is more
                        probably correct. Eriksson, "
                            Sioux City
                         and the Black Hills Gold Rush," 333.
            
            
            Traveling with the party was Colonel Samuel M. Zent, a likely candidate for an adventurous foray into
                    the untamed Black Hills. A native of 
                  Stark County, Ohio
               , he was born in December, 1834. The Zent
                    family then moved to 
                  Richland County, Ohio
               , probably by the early 1840s. At an undetermined early
                    age Zent went to Mansfield, 
                        Ohio
                    , to learn the trade of tinsmith. Sources differ regarding his moves in the next few
                    years. He may have stayed in 
                        Ohio
                     when his parents migrated to Indiana about 1852, then joined them shortly afterward at
                    their newly established farm near 
                  Roanoke, Huntington County
               , Indiana. It is more likely that Zent
                    traveled with his family and was present at the founding of the Indiana homestead. He then married
                    Sarah A. Price in 1858 and worked for the 
                  Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne
                and 
                        Chicago
                     Railroad until the Civil War began.9 In 1861 he enlisted in the
                    13th Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment as a private but rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel by
                    1865, participating in a number of battles, skirmishes, and marches from West 
                        Virginia
                     to 
                        Florida
                    ."10 Following the war, Zent returned to 
                        Roanoke
                     and operated a hardware and tinware business. Seized once again with a desire to roam,
                    he moved his family to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in 1871, stayed a year and a half, then went to 
                  Ligonier, Noble County
               , Indiana.11 In 1875 the Black Hills gold fields beckoned him to depart that city as well.
                    Despite Zent's short residency in 
                        Ligonier
                    , the local National Banner regretfully noted "the genial
                    Colonel's departure" but added that "since he has so willed, we can only
                    hope that his fondest expectations may be amply realized."12 At what
                    point Zent joined his fellow miners is difficult to determine, but it seems reasonable to believe
                    that he either left 
                        Sioux City
                     with Gordon's men or joined them soon after the beginning of their journey.
            The 
                        United States
                     Army was as interested in the Gordon party as was Colonel Zent, albeit for far
                    different reasons. The expedition was to provide an early test of the Black Hills exclusion policy.
                    On March 17, just a few weeks before Gordon and the miners left 
                        Sioux City
                    , Sherman codified his verbal threats with the issuance of General Order Number 2, which
                    officially banned gold-hunting expeditions from the Black Hills. The military was further officially
                    authorized to destroy wagon trains and outfits that they captured 
                  
                     9
                            
                                Huntington
                            , Indiana, Hirald, March 19, 1897; 
                                Huntington
                            , Indiana, Daily Democrat, March 17, 1897; Zent grave marker,
                            Glenwood I.O.O.F. Cemetery, 
                                Roanoke
                            , Indiana; F. A. Battey & Co., pubs., Counties of La Grange
                                and Noble, Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882), 353-54; Zent Family File, 
                                Huntington
                             Public Library, 
                                Huntington
                            , Indiana; Robert J. Zent, interview with author, 
                                Roanoke
                            , Indiana, March 26, 1994.
                  
                     10 [William II. II. Terrell], Report of the Adjutant
                                General of the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1866-1869), II, 99-111. Technically, President Abraham Lincoln appointed Zent
                            a brevet colonel of’ volunteers in March, 1865, but he resigned the following
                            month.
                  
                     11
                            Counties of La Grange and Noble, 353-54.
                  
                     12
                            
                                Ligonier
                            
                            National Banner, April 8, 1875.
               
                    
                    
                  THE JOHN ZENT FAMILY FARM WHERE SAMUEL M. ZENT LIVED IN THE 1850s
                and to arrest and confine the miners' leaders at military posts.13 As if to reiterate the government's threat, a 
                        New York
                    
                    Times article warned, "Indian runners will he constantly employed, who
                    will give prompt notice of the approach of parties."14 Despite the
                    questionable nature of the latter claim, the Times did accurately predict the
                    outcome of the Black Hills gold rush. The paper noted that with the enormous interest in gold
                    hunting people would not wait for further exploration of the region. With the arrival of spring, the
                    newspaper predicted, parties would "push ahead at any cost and in the face of any peril
                    … The Government will do all it can to keep back the parties, but will not,
                    unfortunately, he able to stop all." The result would be Indian attacks and
                    "numerous conflicts," with gold seekers as the victims.15 Not
                    every newspaper, however, was as convinced of the army's sincerity as was the Times. The 
                  Sioux City, Iowa
               , Journal noted that if
                    Custer and his men had kept out of the 
                  
                     13 Anderson. "The Black Hills Exclusion Policy,"
                            3-4.
                  
                     14
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, March 19, 1875.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., April 19, 1875.
               
                    
                    
                  Courtsy Robert J. Zent, 
                                Roanoke
                            , Indiana
                Black Hills, "there would have been no other movement, at present at least, in
                    that direction." The editors believed that if Custer's expedition was not intended
                    as "an opening wedge to that country. then it was an inexcusably wicked thing" on
                    the part of the government, and the paper doubted the military's desire to enforce the
                        treaty.16
            
            A chance for the army to carry out its threats and perform its duty arose even before the Gordon
                    party headed west. On April 6 one of Gordon's rivals led a group of gold hunters out of 
                        Sioux City
                     for the Black Hills, and the army immediately went into action. Captain Fergus
                        Walker17 of the First 
                        United States
                     Infantry Regiment 
                  
                     16 Quoted in Eriksson, "Sioux City and the Black Hills Gold
                            Rush," 325.
                  
                     17 Fergus Walker (?-1882) was born in 
                                Ireland
                             but served with a 
                                New York
                             regiment and the 
                                United States
                             Veteran Reserve Corps during the Civil War. He rose to the rank of captain
                            before being mustered out in 1866. In 1867 Walker received a brevet major's
                            promotion for meritorious service at 
                                Chancellorsville
                            . After his service in the Civil War, he joined the regular army and in 1869 was
                            transferred to the First 
                                United States
                             Infantry Regiment, the unit in which he served until his death. U. S. War
                            Department, Official Army Register fir January, 1880 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., January 1, 1880), 171; and U.S. War Department, Official
                                Army Register for January, 1883 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., January 1, 1883), 357.
               
                    
                    
                  The Black Hills and Vicinity during the 1870s Gold Rush.
                  Map prepared by Graphic Services, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , based on information supplied by Jeffrey L. Patrick.
                led a column from Fort Randall,18 Dakota Territory, "to watch
                    them & prevent any infraction of the Indian treaties." Exactly one month later
                    Walker succeeded in capturing the party "& sent them under a strong guard
                    … to Ft. Randall." Flushed with success, his next target was the Gordon
                    Expedition despite the fact that the absence of the soldiers he sent back to Fort Randall with his
                    gold-hunting captives had "greatly weakened his force. Walker's scouts told him
                    that Gordon was already to his south with 150 persons "well armed" and with a
                    train of twenty-eight wagons "proceeding in the direction of the Black Hills, with the
                    intention of entering them." Walker pursued with his small command of thirty men and
                    overtook the Gordon column near Reunion Creek, 
                        Nebraska
                    .19
            
            
               
                  18 Fort Randall was established in 1856 about sixty miles west of the
                        present-day city of Yankton in modern 
                            Gregory County
                        , South Dakota, near the Missouri River and the 
                            Nebraska
                         state line. It was rebuilt in 1870-1872 slightly downstream from the original site.
                        The fort was built to keep peace among the Sioux and other warlike tribes and to protect white
                        settlement. It was abandoned in 1892. Robert W. Frazer, Forts of the West …!(
                            Norman
                        , Okla., 1965), 136-37.
               
                  19 Captain Fergus Walker to Commanding Officer, Camp Sheridan, 
                            Nebraska
                        , May 15, 1875, Letters Received, Records of the Adjutant General's Office,
                        17802-1917, Record Group 94 (National Archives, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.).
            
            
            At this point Colonel Zent began a narrative of his journey and subsequent confrontation with the
                    army in a letter home to the 
                        Ligonier
                    
                    National Banner, dated May 17, 1875:
            
                    THE BLACK HILLS.
                
            CAPTURE OF CORDON'S EXPEDITION.
            Interesting Letter from Col. Zent.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              CAMP ON NIOBRARA RIVER, NEAR THE MOUTH OF ANTELOPE CREEK, NEB.,
                           
                                    May 17th, 1875.
                                
                        To Mr. James Hoxworth, 
                                        Ligonier
                                    , Ind.:
                        ESTEEMED FRIEND:** When I left 
                                        Ligonier
                                     I supposed that long ere this I should be delving in the gold mines
                                    among the Black Hills, but as yet I have not even been permitted to view the
                                    promised land. Our trip thus far has been a long and tedious one, full of fun and
                                    adventure, often wishing that you could be with us. Our course has been rather
                                    deviating in order to avoid the military, but about two weeks since we learned by
                                    capturing a soldier scout that we were being closely watched; but that the military
                                    did not intend to interfere with us until we should cross over into Dakota
                                    Territory. Consequently we felt entirely secure from military interference as we
                                    moved up on the south side of the 
                                        Nebraska
                                    , enjoying the beautiful scenery that lies along this river, surpassing
                                    anything I had ever before seen. Our feeling of security was, however, of short
                                    duration. On last Wednesday morning, just as we were getting ready to move, a body
                                    of mounted soldiers commanded by Major Walker, from Fort Randall, pounced upon us
                                    and before we knew what they were about had placed a line of guards around our camp.
                                    Walker then informed us that we would be taken to Fort Randall, distant about 180
                                    miles. Against this outrage we protested, but to no avail. Each member of our party
                                    appeared to be trying to argue his own case and considerable confusion prevailed.
                                    Some one spoke of resisting the outrage, when Major Walker turned to one of his
                                    subordinates and in a pompous manner ordered him to get his men ready for action.
                                    Our "Dutch was up," but rather than fight the guardians of our
                                    liberties—God save the mark!—we concluded that it was best to
                                    submit. We were formed into line and numbered, then we were inrenformed [sic] that we would have to surrender our arms. Against this we
                                    again protested. But to no purpose. Several of the boys finally gave up their arms.
                                    For my part, I would not so much as give up a cartridge. After Major Walker had got
                                    all the arms he could from the boys we were started back for Fort Randall. As yet
                                    our captors had failed to learn who was John Gordon, although no attempt at
                                    concealment was made on his part, and so anxious were they to get hold of him that
                                    they offered $50 to any one who would point out John Gordon. But the love
                                    the boys  entertain for their leader was too
                                    strong and the offer was not accepted. During the following night Gordon, with three
                                    faithful followers, succeeded in passing through the soldiers’ pickets.
                                    The next day was spent in marching over the same road where we had marched only a
                                    few days before; then full of life and hope, now as woe-begone and chop-fallen a set
                                    of fellows as it has ever been my lot to be associated with. During the succeeding
                                    night I resolved to cut loose and join Gordon, but in attempting to do so I brought
                                    up against a picket post and was sent back to camp in anything but a pleasant mood I
                                    assure you.20 Friday morning it was found that the bars on the
                                    wagon wheels had been stolen during the previous night, consequently we could not
                                        move.21 This gave the boys an opportunity to discuss the
                                    legality of troops to arrest parties in 
                                        Nebraska
                                     going to the Black Hills in Dakota. So in the afternoon we informed the
                                    Major that we would go no farther, and that if he had any authority for taking us he
                                    could have an opportunity of exercising it. This Walker did not wish to do, and
                                    finally gave his consent to our departure, provided we would not invade the Hills at
                                    present, or until after the Indian title thereto shall have expired. But as I formed
                                    no part or party in this compromise, I intend to exercise my own pleasure about
                                    staying out of the Hills.22
                        
                        No doubt you will hear of the capture of Gordon's party, as Major Walker
                                    sent a carrier to Fort Randall as soon as he had us arrested. There were a few
                                    independent wagons moving with Gordon's party who were nearly out of
                                    provisions. These concluded to go with Walker. Gordon's party is stronger
                                    to-day than ever before, notwithstanding the fact that about forty of the boys are
                                    without arms, Major Walker refusing to give them up. When
                                    "respectfully" requested to return our arms, Walker said those
                                    guns were eighty miles from us, on the way to Fort Randall. The boys feel this
                                    indignity more than all the rest, as these arms were their own private property and
                                    invaluable as a means of defense in this Indian country. The boys intend to appeal
                                    to the Governor of 
                                        Nebraska
                                     for redress in this matter, for it is certain that if Major Walker had
                                    no right to take us by force to Fort Randall, he had no right to take our arms.
                        On Friday afternoon we took our leave of Major Walker and again started westward,
                                    traveling at the rate of about thirty miles 
                              
                                 20 According to Captain Walker, the party claimed that
                                            their stock was too tired to cross the Niobrara River,
                                            so they stopped for the night. Zent was apparently one of a "large
                                            number" who attempted to escape. Walker to Commanding Officer, May
                                            15, 1875, Records of the Adjutant General's Office, Record Group 94
                                            (National Archives).
                              
                                 21 Captain Walker reported that the miners removed the
                                            greater part of the wagon bars during the night. Ibid.
                              
                              
                                 22 Walker cited the small number of men under his
                                            command and his wish to avoid bloodshed as reasons for his release of the
                                            Gordon party. He confirmed Zent's information that he received a
                                            written pledge from the miners that they would stay out of the Black Hills
                                            until all restrictions were removed. Ibid.
                              
                           
                                     per day. Yesterday we found John Gordon and his
                                    followers, and three rousing cheers broke the morning stillness in honor of the
                                    event. We have gone into camp on the Niobrara river, on about
                                    the same meridian as Sidney on the Union Pacific railroad, where the party will
                                    remain to see what action the Governor will take in regard to the abrogation of this
                                    Indian treaty.
                        The boys are all in good health and in good spirits. We have not found game as plenty
                                    as we had anticipated, however we have had all the venison that we could dispose of.
                                    Gordon, while out on a scout, one week ago, saw forty elk in one flock; so we may
                                    look for plenty of fun ahead. The only stream in which we found fish worth catching
                                    was the Elk Horn.
                        I tell you, James, I have seen enough of Northern 
                                        Nebraska
                                     and could not be induced to take a home here as a gift. When I get into
                                    the Hills I will write you again. Yours in haste,
                        
                                    S. M. ZENT.23
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Walker had won a tenuous victory in the first round of the Gordon party's fight to go to the
                    Black Hills. Nonetheless, situated nearly on the western border of 
                        Nebraska
                     and far from his base at Fort Randall and immediate instructions, he was in a
                    precarious position. In fact, he had passed from his home Department of Dakota into the Department
                    of the Platte.24 On the night of May 15, believing that the commander of nearby
                    Camp Sheridan would already have received "later and more definite instructions,"
                    Walker sent his report to Camp Sheridan and asked for cooperation and communications. According to
                    his prior instructions, wrote Walker, his superiors in 
                        Washington
                     believed that it was not necessary for a mining party physically to enter the Black
                    Hills in order to be turned back by the army, "as the simple fact of organizing an
                    expedition, if well authenticated, is as much a violation of the law as if they had actually invaded
                    the territory …." In the meantime, Gordon moved his party to a new campsite
                    authorized by Walker, one located near the confluence of Antelope Creek and the Niobrara
                        River.25 Thus situated, Gordon could undoubtedly ready his men
                    for another strike at the Hills despite his pledge to Walker not to do so. For his part, Walker and
                    his troops kept near the party until he received definite orders as to his future course. When and
                    if reinforced, Walker could strike the miners again, this time with the 
                  
                     23
                            
                                Ligonier
                            
                            National Banner, June 3, 1875.
                  
                     24 The Military Division of the 
                                Missouri
                             encompassed primarily four departments, including the Department of Dakota (
                                Montana
                            , the Dakotas, and 
                                Minnesota
                            ) and the Department of the Platte (
                        Nebraska, Iowa
                     ,
                            Wyoming, 
                                Utah
                            , and part of 
                                Idaho
                            ). Paul Andrew Hutton, Phil Sheridan and His Army (Lincoln,
                            Nebr., 1985), 116-21.
                  
                     25 Walker to Commanding Officer, May 15, 1875, Records of the Adjutant
                            General's Office, Record Group 94 (National Archives).
               
                     intention of permanently crippling their ability to make future
                    treks to Sioux territory.
            Walker's report, carried by "John," a Yankton Sioux scout in the service
                    of the government, reached the hand of Captain Anson Mills at Camp Sheridan, 
                        Nebraska
                    , on the morning of May 17.26 Mills noted that Walker was
                    "greatly embarrassed by a weak force and a determination on the part of the miners to
                    harass him in every way and perhaps resist even to the shedding of blood which they might readily do
                    with success" because of Walker's inferior numbers (30 versus 150). Accordingly,
                    Mills left early the next morning with a mixed force of cavalry and infantry numbering over 60 men,
                    along with a Gatling gun, to assist Walker. Their march was not easy—along the way the
                    troops experienced "a remarkable and severe rain and hail storm" from a small
                    cloud which seemed to hover over the men while "the sun was shining in almost every
                    direction …." To make matters worse, in the early part of the storm lightning
                    bolts struck the earth near the soldiers, "throwing the dirt and dust to great heights,
                    resembling artillery scenes during the [Civil] War …." Mills noted this
                    "remarkable phenomenon," something he had never before witnessed or heard of, in
                    his report. After making slow progress in the soft ground, Mills camped for the night. The following
                    day the detachment pushed rapidly ahead; and after a halt was called to establish camp, Mills sent a
                    party of two men forward to try to find Walker and propose to him that the miners be handled
                    "without gloves" by executing General Order Number 2. One of Mills's
                    messengers, dressed in civilian clothes, stole into camp and found the captain without raising the
                    suspicions of the miners. The soldier returned early the next morning with Walker's
                    favorable reply.27
            
            Mills quickly prepared for action. He put his men in the saddle and led them off, taking the Gatling
                    gun but leaving behind his ambulances and wagons. At 5:45 a.m., the troop charged into the Gordon
                    camp, taking care to "prevent the possibility of escape of the leaders, the secreting of
                    the property, annoyance by stampede and possible show of resistance by intrenchment
                    …." Mills recorded that Gordon's men were as surprised "as
                    tho' we had dropped from 
                  
                     26 Anson Mills (1834-1924), a native of Indiana, resigned after two
                            years as a cadet at West Point. He served throughout the Civil War and was made a brevet
                            lieutenant colonel in 1864. He joined the 3rd 
                                United States
                             Cavalry Regiment in 1870 and fought in a number of campaigns in the Indian wars
                            in the 1870s and 1880s. Major William H. Powell and Edward Shippen, Officers of
                                the Army and Navy (Regular) who served in the Civil War (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1892), 277. Mills continued to serve in the army until he retired in June,
                            1897, with the rank of brigadier general. He won great fame and amassed a fortune by
                            developing the Mills web cartridge belt for the American military. U. S. War Department, Official Army Register for 1898 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., December 1, 1897), 179.
                  
                     27 Captain Anson Mills to General George D. Ruggles, Camp Sheridan, 
                                Nebraska
                            , May 23, 1875, Letters Received, Records of the Adjutant General's
                            Office, 1780s-1917, Record Group 94 (National Archives).
               
                     the sky." After a short conference with Walker, he
                    decided that the Gordon party's conduct had made them "subjects for the most rigid
                    execution of G.O. 2."28 Mills was pleased to note that Walker had
                    encircled the miners with his pickets even before the arrival of the reinforcements from Camp
                    Sheridan and to discover that the party had been "greatly reduced" because six
                    wagons had left for 
                        Sioux City
                     the day before with "many of the men abandoning the party." Mills
                    convened a board of officers to witness what occurred next, then sent for J. W. Brockett, who
                    "represented himself as the leader" of the miners. Mills suspected that Gordon
                    himself was among them but had not yet been discovered. Brockett was ordered to parade his men but
                    soon returned and stated that he was only director of the 
                        Sioux City
                     and Black Hills Transportation Company; John Gordon was the leader of the expedition.
                    Brockett then brought Gordon to Mills at the captain's request.
            A few days later Colonel Zent reported on the ordeal to his friends in 
                        Ligonier
                    .
            
                    GORDON'S BLACK HILLS EXPEDITION.
                
            
                    ITS CAPTURE BY THE TYRANT WALKER.
                
            Interesting Narrative by Colonel S. M. Zent, a Member of that Ill-Fated Expedition.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              LIGONIER, IND.,
                           
                                    June 21, 1875.
                                
                        To the Editor of The National Banner:
                        
                           DEAR SIR:—In compliance with your request, I have
                                    prepared a written statement of the facts in connection with the burning of the
                                    train of the Gordon Black Hills expedition, on the 21st of last month, while
                                    encamped on the south side of the Nebraska river, in 
                                        Nebraska
                                    , by U.S. troops from Forts Randall and Laramie, under command of Major
                                    Walker and Captains Mills and Fisdale.29
                        
                        In my letter of the 17th ult., published in your paper, I made mention of our having
                                    been arrested by U.S. troops and marched about fifty miles back toward Fort Randal
                                        [sic], when seventy-two 
                              
                                 28
                                            Ibid. In reporting this incident in his 1918
                                            autobiography, Mills added details that he had left out of his official
                                            report. He noted, for example, that the miners were hopelessly encamped
                                            "in a river bend, between precipitous bluffs, with only a few
                                            hundred yards' space for entrance or exit." Mills also
                                            claimed that a shot was fired by one of the miners, to which he told them
                                            they "might have fired the first shot, but we would have the
                                            last…." Anson Mills, My Story, ed. C.
                                            H. Claudy (
                                                Washington
                                            , D.C., 1918), 156-57.
                              
                                 29 Here Zent orobably refers to William N. Tisdall, a 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                             native who joined the 
                                                United States
                                             Regulars as a second lieutenant in 1861 and was promoted to
                                            captain in 1869. He was assigned to the First Infantry Regiment in 1871 and
                                            retired in 1895. U. S. War Department, Official Army Register
                                                for January, 1878 (
                                                Washington
                                            , D.C., January 1, 18781, 97; U.S. War Department, Official Army Register for 1898, p. 244.
                           
                                     members of the expedition refused to go any
                                    further, concluding that 
                                        United States
                                     troops had no right to interfere with us as long as we were within the
                                    State of 
                                        Nebraska
                                    . So, after the major portion of the said seventy-two had signed a
                                    parole—in compliance with Walker's request—not to
                                    enter the Sioux reservation until thrown open by the Government, we again took up
                                    our march westward over the same road we had already twice traveled.
                        Our parole gave us permission to encamp within a radius of twenty miles from the
                                    mouth of Antelope creek. So, finding a suitable spot for our camp on the
                                        Niobrara river, thirteen miles this side of Antelope creek,
                                    we pitched our tents on Monday evening, May 17. On the following Wednesday evening
                                    Major Walker with his command hove in sight and encamped on an eminence, overlooking
                                    our camp, distant about half a mile. This elicited but little comment from the boys,
                                    as Major Walker had informed us that he should keep watch over us and "see
                                    that the Indians did not gobble us up."
                        Feeling perfectly secure, little did we dream of the fearful storm that was gathering
                                    in the heart of this dastardly coward and villain, Walker, and that would so soon
                                    sweep down upon us like a besom of destruction. This lying sneak, as I afterwards
                                    learned, sent an Indian runner to Fort Laramie for reinforcements, stating that we
                                    were three hundred strong; that we had two Gatlin [sic] guns; were
                                    fortifying ourselves and defying the Government.
                        It was Friday morning, May 21st. The sun had just made his appearance above the
                                    horizon. Not more than half the boys were up, when Walker with his command,
                                    supported by a cavalry force and a Gatlin gun from Ft. Laramie, made a dash upon our
                                    camp, and in less time than I can write it threw a guard around us. Walker, with a
                                    body of soldiers, then passed through our quarters and ordered us into line,
                                    remarking that he was "now running this thing," and to intimidate
                                    us the more, pointed to the Gatlin gun, which had been loaded and placed in a
                                    commanding position near our camp. After some little delay, the boys quietly marched
                                    out about twenty rods from our quarters to a place indicated by our captors.
                        It was at this stage of the game that I thought to take refuge behind my rights as a
                                    citizen of the 
                                        United States
                                    , while within the free State of 
                                        Nebraska
                                    , and refused to move. But after receiving a rather free application of
                                    boot leather from the pedal extremity of an overgrown orderly sergeant, we concluded
                                    the refuge a little too thin and quietly succumbed. A heavy guard was placed around
                                    us, and for six long hours we were compelled to stand and witness the wanton
                        DESTRUCTION OF OUR PROPERTY.
                        At first these vandals, with their officers at their head, proceeded to help
                                    themselves to our breakfast, which had been left  untouched by us. Having glutted their greed, ransacked our quarters, broken open
                                    valises and stolen every valuable article of clothing that they could find, the
                                    general destruction of property was commenced. A fire was built in a ravine close
                                    by, into which wagon after wagon, with their contents, were rolled. After they had
                                    destroyed our provisions and amunition [sic], they broke and
                                    burned our rifles and revolvers. Many of the rifles were of the latest improved
                                        breech-loaders.30
                        
                        During all this time scarcely a murmur was heard among the boys, as they stood with
                                    clinched fists and knitted brows watching the destruction of their property by this
                                    Sheridan banditti.31
                        
                        For fear of becoming tedious, I will pass our long and tiresome march to Fort Randal,
                                    a distance of about two hundred and fifty miles. When we arrived at the Fort (June
                                    1st) Walker wished to turn us over to the commander of the post, but that officer
                                    positively refused to have anything to do with us, "for," said he,
                                    "this arrest has been made without my sanction."
                        On the morning of the 3d inst. we were placed across the Missouri
                                    river and told to "skip!" which in Hoosier parlance
                                    means to "skin out."
                        Many of the members of this unfortunate expedition were of the poorer class, who,
                                    with the hope of bettering their condition, had invested their last dollar in
                                    procuring the necessary outfit. Several of these started out on foot for Yankton,
                                    distant about eighty miles. Six of us constructed a thing—scarcely
                                    deserving the name of boat -in which we started for 
                                        Sioux City
                                    , distant about two hundred and fifty miles, following the meanderings
                                    of the 
                                        Missouri
                                    . The river was high and the current rapid. The first night we encamped
                                    just below the mouth of the Niobrara river, having made a run
                                    of about sixty miles.
                        Early next morning found us afloat and feeling first-rate. During the previous day we
                                    had strictly observed the old 
                                        Franklin
                                    
                                    
                              
                                 30 Mills proudly noted that despite this
                                            "most disagreeable and thankless duty," his men behaved
                                            with "alacrity and zeal" and displayed "perfect
                                            discipline," for even with so much "valuable and desirable
                                            property" destroyed, the soldiers appropriated nothing for
                                            themselves. He paid tribute to Walker for "the discretion and
                                            forbearance" he exercised while being harassed by "such
                                            unkind conduct" in a foreign military department. Mills to Ruggles,
                                            May 23, 1875, Records of the Adjutant General's Office, Record
                                            Group 94 (National Archives).
                              
                                 31 Mills, of course, failed to note many of these
                                            details in his official report. He did take a list of names of the party and
                                            recorded a total of seventy-six miners, one woman, and one boy (J. W.
                                            Brockett's family) in the group. In addition, he listed twelve
                                            wagons, twenty-eight stand of arms, eighteen revolvers, and a large quantity
                                            of ammunition and mining implements. He estimated the value of the property
                                            destroyed at two to three thousand dollars. Mills remembered the
                                            operation's being completed by 10:00 a.m., far less time than the
                                            six hours Zent recalled. Mills to Ruggles, May 23, 1875, Records of the
                                            Adjutant General's Office, Record Group 94 (National Archives). One
                                            source reported that much of Brockett's merchandise was not
                                            destroyed, as Mrs. Brockett sat upon the goods, and the soldiers were too
                                            gallant to remove her. William S. Greever, The Bonanza West:
                                                The Story of Western Mining Rushes, 1848-1900 (
                                                Norman
                                            , Okla., 1963), 293.
                           
                                     maxim: "Little boats should keep near
                                    shore." But this morning, being Captain of the "Black Hills
                                    Clipper," I thought it best to cross to the opposite side of the river.
                                    Unfortunately, when near the middle of the stream, we came in contact with one of
                                    those fearful eddies so numerous in the 
                                        Missouri
                                    , and our "barque went down amid the howling of" as
                                    frightened a set of fellows as you ever witnessed. Things looked mighty blue for a
                                    while, and could we have found a purchaser just then, we would have sold out pretty
                                    cheaply. Fortunately, we succeeded in keeping our heads above water until we drifted
                                    to a sand-bar, some distance down stream. The boys lost about everything, except
                                    what they had on their backs. I was more fortunate, having saved my valise. We
                                    succeeded in securing our craft, but four of the party would rather walk to Yankton
                                    than take any more chances in the "Clipper." So, Samuel Wilson,
                                    from 
                                        Mississippi
                                    , and myself boarded her once more and were soon gliding down the turbid
                                    waters of the 
                                        Missouri
                                    . We arrived at 
                                        Sioux City
                                     on the following Tuesday, perfectly disgusted with everything
                                    pertaining to the Black Hills.
                        
                                    Yours,
                                    S. M. ZENT.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Zent returned home in June, 1875, his desire for gold temporarily stifled as a result of his
                    encounter with the military.32 The whole matter of the capture of the Gordon
                    party was not so easily settled for all of its members, however. Gordon himself was separated from
                    the others at the capture site, taken by Mills to Camp Sheridan, and kept in confinement by the
                    government, officially charged with violating General Order No. 2. In late August Gordon appeared in
                    court in Omaha, and all charges against him were dismissed.33 Despite the
                    failure of the Gordon Expedition, 
                        Sioux City
                     newspapers continued to encourage violations of the treaty and General Order No. 2.
                    Even before Gordon's capture the 
                        Sioux City
                    
                    Times had encouraged private expeditions or parties to make a run for the Black
                    Hills. Realistically, the newspaper pointed out, an army equal to that raised in the Civil War would
                    be necessary to close off all lands surrounding the gold region.34 To compound
                    the government's problems, a second geological expedition, led by Walter Jenney and
                    finished by October, 1875, confirmed that gold could be found in the area in paying quantities.35
            
            
               
                  32
                        
                            Ligonier
                        
                        National Banner, June 24, 1875.
               
                  33 Anderson, "The Black Hills Exclusion Policy," 11-21.
               
                  34 Eriksson, "Sioux City and the Black Hills Gold Rush,"
                        335. General George Crook was able to score a brief triumph when he convinced many miners to
                        withdraw from the region at a meeting on August 10 at the future site of Custer, South Dakota.
                        This meeting, however, did not include all miners in the Black Hills, and
                        those who voluntarily left only stayed out temporarily. Greever, The Bonanza West, 293.
               
                  35 Eriksson, "Sioux City and the Black Hills Gold Rush,"
                        337.
            
            
            Faced with the impossibility of barring the miners, the government attempted a legal settlement with
                    the Indians regarding the Black Hills. A frustrated government commission met with the Sioux in an
                    attempt to buy the region, but by late September, 1875, the conference ended as the Indians could
                    not agree on whether to sell or retain their sacred ground. Consequently, in a White House meeting
                    of high military and civilian leaders in November, it was agreed that the army would no longer
                    enforce General Order No. 2 and that the Black Hills would be seized. Bands of roaming,
                    non-reservation Sioux, not tied to government agencies and rations, had frustrated the purchasing
                    negotiations and were supposedly raiding outside the Great Sioux Reservation. These Indians would be
                    forced onto the reservation, an action that would allow for the uninhibited settlement of the Black
                    Hills by whites and bring the troublesome Sioux under tighter government control. If the increased
                    ties to the federal government failed to influence the Sioux to sell the region, the army would
                    launch a campaign against them and so have an excuse for taking the Black Hills.36 The Indians had until January 31, 1876, to report to their agencies. Many of them ignored
                    the deadline, and the army sent three converging columns against the Indians in southeastern 
                        Montana
                     the following summer. That campaign resulted in the annihilation of part of the Seventh 
                        United States
                     Cavalry Regiment and the death of its commander, Colonel Custer, on June 25, 1876.
                    Ultimately, however, the military triumphed in its mission.37
            
            Undeterred by the growing potential for armed conflict in the regon in 1876, Zent determined to try
                    again for the Black Hills. In early March his hometown newspaper wrote: 
                        We regret to learn that our esteemed and worthy townsman, Col. S. M. Zent, has determined to
                            again seek his fortune in the Black Hills. The favorable reports from that region have
                            induced the gallant Colonel to try his luck for a second time. We can only express the hope
                            that his anticipations may be realized to a more satisfactory extent than heretofore, and
                            that he may return to our midst with ample supplies of the precious metal. He will leave
                            next week.38
                  
                    
                
            Zent was certainly not alone in wanting to travel to the Black Hills in the spring of
                    America's centennial year. In the words of one writer, "Representatives of every
                    trade and profession under the sun came rushing along, figuratively, tumbling over each other in
                    their headlong haste to be the first to reach the New Eldorado …." 
                  
                     36 Hutton, Phil Sheridan and His Army, 294-99;
                            Utley, Cavalier in Buckskin, 145-47.
                  
                     37 Utley, Cavalier in Buckskin, 155-56. For an
                            excellent account of military operations during this period, see Robert M. Urley, Frontier Regulars: The 
                                    United States
                                 Army and the Indian, 1866-1891 (
                                New York
                            , 1973). For a Native American perspective see Utley's The
                                Lance and the Shield: The Life and Times of sitting Bull (
                                New York
                            , 1993).
                  
                     38
                            
                                Ligonier
                            
                            National Banner, March 2, 1876.
               
                     Even Gordon led yet another party from 
                        Sioux City
                    , part of a resurrected 
                        Sioux City
                     and Black Hills Transportation Company venture. Naturally, 
                        Sioux City
                     newspapers continued to urge miners to journey there "in large bodies and well
                    armed," i.e., in company-sponsored expeditions.39
            
            The Hoosier Zent decided on a different route and mode of transportation for his second outing to the
                    Hills. This time it was not by wagon train but by the far safer railroad and not from 
                        Sioux City
                     but from Cheyenne, Wyoming Territory. Zent wrote of the first leg of his journey in
                    March, 1876, to the National Banner:
            
            
                    THE BLACK HILLS.
                
            
                    INTERESTING LETTER FROM COL. ZENT.
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              CHEYENNE,
                           
                                    March 12,1876.
                                
                        EDITOR BANNER:—
                        Before leaving 
                                        Ligonier
                                    , quite a number of my acquaintances requested me to write to them. Much
                                    as I would like to oblige them, it will be almost impossible for me to do so, except
                                    through the columns of your valuable paper, and with your permission I will endeavor
                                    to keep your readers informed as to the facts in connection with the Black Hills.
                        The cheapest and most practical route to the Black Hills of Dacota [sic] is undoubtedly by the way of Cheyenne. The 
                              Chicago, Rock
                                        Island
                            & Pacific Railroad is now selling
                                    special rate tickets through from 
                                        Chicago
                                     to Cheyenne for $25.50—distance about eleven
                                    hundred miles—requiring seventy-two hours to make the trip on these
                                    special rate tickets, which allows you to ride in first-class cars as far as Omaha,
                                    and from thence to Cheyenne in immigrant cars.
                        I left 
                                        Ligonier
                                     on the morning of March 6th, in company with "
                                        Oregon
                                    " Smith. At 
                                        Chicago
                                     we were joined by a party of six Black Hillers. We reached Omaha at 10
                                    p.m. March 7th. Here I had the pleasure of meeting my old friend
                                    "Dick" Kenwill, with whom I had messed in the Gordon outfit last
                                    spring. We remained in Omaha until 4 p.m. next day, when we started on the immigrant
                                    train, with about fifty Black Hillers, for Cheyenne. The weather was quite pleasant
                                    and we all enjoyed the trip. As we approached the North Platte country, deer
                                    appeared to be plenty, seeing as high as twenty-three in one drove. About ten miles
                                    from Cheyenne we passed through the midst of a prairie dog town, embracing several
                                    hundred acres within its limits. The train slackened speed as we approached the
                                    town, and as we entered it a general fusilade was opened by the boys upon the
                                    peaceable inhabitants, who had turned out in force and were manifesting their
                                    appreciation of the sport by kicking up 
                              
                                 39 Eriksson, "Sioux City and the Black Hills
                                            Gold Rush," 340-42.
                           
                                     their heels and running from hole to hole.
                                    Although a large number of shots were fired, I do not think that one citizen of this
                                    commonwealth received a scratch. A German who was sitting next to me declared that
                                    he had knocked one over, and that the little thing was "youst kickum its
                                    last;" but upon looking I found that the little fellow was all right and
                                    barking most lustily, accompanying each bark with a vigorous jerk of the tail, which
                                    my German friend had mistaken for a hind leg.
                        We found Cheyenne pleasantly located in an open plain, containing a population of
                                    about 6,000, and enjoying a splendid trade at present on account of the Black Hills
                                    immigration. As a place for outfitting it is far ahead of 
                                        Sioux City
                                     or Yankton; even superior to 
                                        Chicago
                                     in many respects.40
                        
                        "
                                        Oregon
                                    " Smith, Dick Kenwill and myself have formed a mess, and intend
                                    to stick together through thick and thin. We bought our outfit yesterday, and were
                                    surprised to find prices so low. Good smoked ham sells at 16 cents per pound; bacon,
                                    14 1/2 cents; flour, $5.00 to $8.50 per hundred; sugar, 11 to
                                    13 cents; butter, 20 cents, and everything else at about the same rates. To those
                                    who contemplate going to the Hills I would say, buy your outfit in Cheyenne. The
                                    party of six from 
                                        Chicago
                                     who came with us, bought their outfits in 
                                        Chicago
                                     at a very little less than they could have bought them here, and had to
                                    pay 2 1/2 cents per pound for transportation from there to this city. One can get
                                    good board and lodging here for $8.00 per week. I find the 
                                        Key City
                                     a very good house to stop at.
                        Black Hillers are arriving here at the rate of about fifty per day. They generally
                                    spend about one day in Cheyenne outfitting, and then renew their journey in wagons
                                    for 
                                        Custer City
                                    , in the Black Hills, paying for transportation at the rate of 7 cents
                                    per 100 pounds. Several parties started to-day, one consisting of six Chinamen. We
                                    start to-morrow morning. I will write again as soon as we arrive in the Hills. Yours
                                    respectfully,
                        
                                    S. M. Zent.41
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Zent and his companions then successfully completed the next step of their trek. Arriving at
                            
                  Custer City, Dakota
                            Territory
               , they found a rapidly growing community and at least one
                    former 
                        Ligonier
                     resident, albeit a recent arrival of a few weeks before. John C. Miller wrote his own
                    letter to the National Banner in February, 1876, describing Custer as "a
                    nice little city; the town plat is one mile square. There are about three hundred buildings here at
                    pre 
                  
                     40 Zent overestimated the size of Cheyenne. According to the 1870
                            census, the city had a population of only 1,450, while in 1880 the population had increased
                            to 3,456. Francis A. Walker, The Statistics of the Population of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1872), 295; Charles W. Seaton, Statistics of the Population
                                of the 
                                    United States
                                 at the Tenth Census (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 18831, 375.
                  
                     41
                            
                                Ligonier
                            
                            National Banner, March 23, 1876.
               
                     sent. I can only compare it to the rebuilding of the city of 
                        Chicago
                    ." Miller noted that each man was entitled to "a lot 50x150 for the
                    small sum of 50 cents, the recorder's fee." He pointed out proudly that the first
                    city elections were held February 14, for a city justice, marshal, and recorder, with three hundred
                    votes cast. He continued to promote the area in his letter, commenting on the climate and mining and
                    contradicting many of the earlier unfavorable comments made by the National Banner regarding the
                    Black Hills: 
                        The climate is fine; we go about in our shirt sleeves most of the time. There is some fine
                            farming country here; the water is good. The mines are very rich in quartz; the placer mines
                            are also very rich. I think this is a good country for a poor man. But few mines have been
                            developed as yet; nearly all of them, however, are known to be very rich. There is not much
                            money in the Hills yet, but men are coming in daily with some. Lots are selling at from
                            $25 to $1,000. I have located a lot and am building a house on it. We
                            have one saw-mill in operation and two more will soon be ready. Lumber is worth from
                            $30 to $50 per thousand … we also have some wild fruits,
                            such as plums, gooseberries, currants and raspberries.42
                  
                    
                
            Zent described his journey to Custer and his own impressions of the city in a letter to the National Banner, confirming some of Miller's observations while
                    disagreeing with a few details:
            
                    THE BLACK HILLS.
                
            
                    Letter from Colonel Zent.
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              CUSTER CITY, D.T.,
                           
                                    April 5, ‘76.
                                
                        ED. BANNER:—
                        well, I have at last succeeded in reaching the Black Hills, and consequently feel as
                                    happy as a "big sunflower." We left Cheyenne March 16th, and after
                                    a tedious journey of twenty days reached 
                                        Custer City
                                    . Our trip here was a very unpleasant one on account of the cold and
                                    disagreeable weather and the frequent snow storms that we encountered while crossing
                                    the Laramie plains. We frequently had to shovel our way through snow drifts several
                                    feet deep. We also learned by sad experience that this route, instead of being only
                                    200 miles, is all of 300, and a very rough one at that. The country is principally a
                                    barren waste, except along the water courses. Between Cheyenne and Fort Laramie
                                    these valleys are nearly all taken up by ranchmen. Between Fort Laramie and 
                                        Custer City
                                    , a distance of 200 miles, there are only three ranches.
                        A constant stream of Black Hillers is pouring into Custer, the major portion coming
                                    via Cheyenne. These Black Hillers are divided 
                              
                                 42
                                            Ibid.
                                            
                                                Custer City
                                             had other signs of "civilization." In March,
                                            1876, a group of 125 men were organized as Minute Men to drive off Indians
                                            who appeared near the city, while a Provisional Black Hills Superior Court
                                            was established to deal with all judicial matters until regular courts were
                                            opened. In the summer of 1876 the first public school in the Black Hills was
                                            opened in Custer. Greever, The Bonanza West, 316.
                           
                                     into two distinct
                                    classes—"old miners" and "tender
                                    feet." The former, of course, know everything pertaining to mining, while
                                    the latter are not supposed to know ‘(beans when the bag is
                                    open."
                        Everyone arriving here expresses surprise at the flourishing condition of 
                                        Custer City
                                    , which now has all of 500 buildings within her corporation. Business of
                                    all kinds is represented here. The city is teeming with miners from all parts of the
                                    country, and are patiently waiting for the opening up of spring. March was the
                                    severest month of the winter here. At present the weather is moderating rapidly.
                        Nothing has been done here this spring in the way of mining. I have been shown
                                    several fine specimens of gold that were taken out last fall. At present I cannot
                                    advise anyone to come here. I think a few months later will be better. At this time
                                    all is jam and confusion. Many who came here with rather exalted ideas as to the
                                    mineral wealth of the Hills, and failing to find gold nuggets lying around waiting
                                    to be picked up, are becoming disgusted and returning home.
                        Although scores of buildings are in course of construction, yet the supply of
                                    carpenters is far above the demand. Three saw-mills are in full blast here, and
                                    lumber is selling at $30 per thousand. Flour sells at $11 per
                                    hundred pounds; bacon, 35 cents; ham, 40 cents; butter, 50 cents; sauer kraut, 20
                                    cents; sugar, 30 cents; eggs, 50 cents per dozen; potatoes, 12 1/4 cents per pound;
                                    clothing, boots and shoes, about 100 per cent. higher than in the States; shaving,
                                    25 cents, and hair cutting 75. More anon.
                        
                                    S. M. ZENT
                              43
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Zent was finally able to begin his long awaited search for gold as he moved north from 
                        Custer City
                     toward the town of Deadwood, Dakota Territory. He moved into the area of the first
                    Black Hills gold discoveries, a region that stretched from the first mining district established in
                    May, 1875, on French Creek (near Custer) on the south to Whitewood Creek (near Deadwood) on the
                    north, a distance of fifty miles which contained thirty-eight gulches and
                        creek valleys. Some gold deposits in this area were considerable, but with
                    the large number of miners present, the profits were small. As historian William s. Greever has
                    written, "From no claim anywhere in the Black Hills did a prospector make a large
                    fortune." Zent's success, like that of many others, was very limited.44
            
            Zent eventually landed in colorful Deadwood, a surprisingly well developed area in 1876 and the
                    center of Black Hills gold mining. The initial gold find was made in Deadwood in August, 1875, and
                    in the early spring of 1876 the rush there began. Claims were 
                  
                     43
                            
                                Ligonier
                            
                            National Banner, April 27, 1876.
                  
                     44 Greever. The Bonanza West, 302.
               
                     rich but not extensive, and good claims were quickly staked out
                    by the end of January. Gradually, hundreds of disappointed miners either extended claims into
                    neighboring gulches, returned to other Black Hills areas, or abandoned the region altogether.
                    Although the site of the town of Deadwood was laid out in April of 1876, by autumn of the same year
                    the population had soared to seven thousand. By the last part of September the town had a newspaper,
                    bakeries, billiard establishments, dance halls, gambling houses, and practically every other
                    conceivable business.45 One author wrote that in Deadwood "could be
                    found representatives of every prominent mining district of the west, as well as
                    ‘tenderfeet’ from every state of the Union. In the throng the buckskin clad
                    hunter jostled the dandified gambler and the pilgrim from New 
                        England
                    . On every side was heard the sound of the hammer and saw, in the construction of new
                    buildings … On one hand could be heard the impassioned call of an itinerant minister of
                    the Gospel…. In close proximity would be a loud-voiced gambler crying his
                        game."46 Zent continued the narrative of his adventures to the National Banner:
            
                    THE BLACK HILLS.
                
            
                    An Interesting Letter from Col. S. M. Zent.
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              DEAD WOOD CITY, BLACK HILLS
                              
                           
                                    May 28th, 1876.
                                
                        To the Editor of The National Banner:
                        DEAR SIR:—Having a few leisure hours
                                    this afternoon, I will improve them by writing to the readers of THE BANNER. My last letter was written at 
                                        Custer City
                                    , April 6th. Since then Smith, "Dick and I have spent most of
                                    our time in prospecting.
                        Having formed rather a poor opinion of French Creek (on which 
                                        Custer City
                                     is located), we moved about fifteen miles north, on Spring Creek, near
                                    Hill City, and located some claims. But failing to find anything more than plenty of
                                    boulders and gravel, we concluded to strike further north. April 29th found us
                                    encamped on Bear Butte Creek, a tributary of the north fork of the Cheyenne. Here we
                                    toiled like beavers in digging a ditch and building a dam, in order to change the
                                    channel of the creek to prospect its old bed. But, after all our toil and sweat, we
                                    failed to find the object of our search.
                        We next prospected on Fir Creek, a tributary to Bear Butte. Here we found fair
                                    prospects, but water insufficient for sluicing. (I herewith enclose twenty
                                    cents' worth of the gold we found on this 
                              
                                 45
                                            Ibid., 300-303, 316-18.
                              
                                 46 Quoted in Rodman Wilson Paul, Mining
                                                Frontiers of the Far West, 1848-1880 (
                                                New York
                                            , 19631, 178.
                           
                                     creek.) Hearing of rich diggings about eight
                                    miles to the north-west of us, we struck tent and pulled out for White Wood Creek.
                                    On reaching here, we were utterly surprised at finding White Wood Gulch teeming with
                                    busy miners, and the banks of the creek lined with cabins and tents, for miles. The
                                    principal tributary to the White Wood is Dead Wood. This gulch, if possible,
                                    presents a more lively appearance than White Wood. Some of the richest mines yet
                                    discovered in the Black Hills, or anywhere else, since the discovery of the famous
                                    Alder Gulch, in 
                                        Montana
                                    , have been found on White Wood and its tributaries.
                        Miners from all parts of the Hills are flocking to this place. These discoveries have
                                    given a new impetus to the mining interests of the Black Hills, and many who were on
                                    the point of returning home have taken new courage. Cities are springing up like
                                    magic in this new eldorado. Crook City, at the mouth of White Wood, Elizabeth City,
                                    twelve miles up White Wood, Dead Wood City, at the mouth of Dead Wood Creek and half
                                    a mile above Elizabeth (the two are now blended in one). Gayville (the only town in
                                    the Hills which makes no pretensions toward being a "city"), is
                                    quite a thriving place, two miles above Dead Wood City. Centennial City, one mile
                                    above Crook, is yet an embryo, but big things are anticipated by its projectors.
                        Rapid Hill and 
                                        Custer City
                                    , in the southern part of the Hills, are about "piked
                                    out," and unless something better is found there than has yet been
                                    discovered, these monuments of architectural skill, like 
                                        Thebes
                                     and 
                                        Athens
                                    , will have reached the zenith of their glory.
                        The mining ground on White Wood and its tributaries has all been taken up, and the
                                    only chance now is to buy a claim. Some idea may be formed of the richness of these
                                    mines when I tell you that over two thousand dollars have been taken out of one
                                    claim in a day, worked by eight miners. How is this for $14 a day for
                                    hands? Smith says: "Let the man in the brick saloon by the 
                                        Ligonier
                                     House answer." Wages in the mines range from $4 to
                                    $6 per day, boarding not included. At present I would not advise any one
                                    to come to the Hills, unless they have a few spare hundred dollars or wish to work
                                    in the mines, and which, I can assure my readers, is not pleasant by any means.
                        The Indians have committed several depredations, mostly in the southern part of the
                                    Hills and on the Cheyenne and Yankton routes. We anticipate no trouble from them
                                    here. Some scouts have been employed, however, to keep a sharp look-out, in case
                                    they should see fit to make an attack.
                        Before closing, I will endeavor to give your readers a brief description of the Black
                                    Hills, as far as my observation extends: The Black Hills are a clear cut, well
                                    defined mountain mass, thrown up in the midst of an almost boundless plain. Their
                                    flank,  for the most part is very abrupt,
                                    presenting an almost perfect wall. On entering them, the mind is filled with wonder
                                    and amazement, as it contemplates these might upheavals, especially in the vicinity
                                    of Harney's Peak. Here strata of rock, hundreds of feet in thickness, have
                                    been thrown up, until they stand almost vertical. Is this the result of one mighty
                                    instantaneous upheaval, or is it the gradual work of ages? But what is more pleasing
                                    to the eye than all else pertaining to the Hills, especially after having spent
                                    several days upon the open plains, are the beautiful pine forests that greet you on
                                    all sides. These forests of pine, with their peculiar, dark green foliage, cover the
                                    major portion of the hills.
                        Game, such as deer and elk, are quite plentiful, and Smith, with his unerring
                                    "Betsey," succeeds in keeping our larder well supplied with
                                    venison. Pheasants, too, are numerous, and afford up many a delicious repast. Fish,
                                    I am sorry to say, are scarce. The largest I have yet found were a species of small
                                    suckers, and I think I may safely say that there is not a man in the Black Hills
                                    that has an eye more to fishing than I have.
                        Our mails are very uncertain, those blasted "red skins" having
                                    taken it in several times.
                        
                                    S. M. ZENT.47
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Ironically, at the same time that Zent was struggling in the gold fields, his hometown newspaper was
                    still printing doubtful columns regarding the gold rush. Explaining that it was difficult to form
                    any accurate opinion on gold in the Black Hills, the National Banner, in its "
                        Washington
                     Letter," admitted that although the Jenney expedition had found that gold
                    could not be picked up by the shovelful there, the precious substance could be found in paying
                    quantities in certain parts of the region. Based on this evidence, however, "hundreds and
                    perhaps thousands" had gone there supposing they would be able to make "their
                    ‘etarnal fortins’ in a few weeks, and have been grievously
                    disappointed," the paper reported. Such fortune seekers had also been forced to run a
                    gauntlet of large bands of hostile Sioux seeking scalps, who had already killed hundreds of miners,
                    and hundreds more would be killed trying to leave the area "which they once imagined was an
                        Eldorado."48
            
            Zent finally abandoned his prospecting dream in August and returned home to 
                        Ligonier
                    . The National Banner noted the return of its informal correspondent:
                    "Col. S.M. Zent arrived at his home yesterday from the Black Hills. He reports that
                    gold-hunting in that region is at present an exceedingly hazardous undertaking, and expresses a
                    determination to spend the future with his family 
                  
                     47
                            
                                Ligonier
                            
                            National Banner, June 29, 1876.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., June 22, 1876.
               
                    
                    
                  SAMUEL M. ZENT
                  
                  PROBABLY TAKEN IN THE 1880s AFTER
                                HIS RETURN FROM THE BLACK HILLS
                  
                  Courtesy Robert J. Zem. Ruamoke. Indiana.
                in a land of civilization rather than live neighbor to Sitting Bull."49 Zent's exact profits from gold mining are unknown.
            Although Colonel Zent and countless others failed to find their fortune in the Black Hills. some
                    eventually did. In 1877 it was estimated that the gold mined from quartz in the region amounted to
                    $1.5 million while that from placers (washing or dredging sand or gravel containing gold)
                    totaled $1 million. The personal fortune lost by the Indian population with the seizure
                    of their sacred Black Hills is incalculable. The issue of the Black Hills was finally settled to
                    white satisfaction in September and October, 1876. A treaty 
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., August 24, 1876. It may have been between late May, when his final
                            letter was written, and August, 1876, when he returned home, that Zent was confined
                            "helpless in a tent" for six weeks with inflamatory rheumatism, expecting
                            his career to end either from the effects of the disease or from Indian attack. 
                                Huntington
                            
                            Herald, March 19, 1897.
               
                     negotiated at that time paid $4.5 million to the
                    Indians and authorized the region to be officially opened for settlement in February, 1877. To date,
                    the selling of the Black Hills is still disputed by Native Americans and remains their most
                    protracted legal battle with the federal government and the largest claim by native tribes against
                    the 
                        United States
                    .50
            
            Even after his return from the failed Black Hills expedition, Zent's determination to stay
                    in a "land of civilization" did not last. He had left 
                        Ligonier
                     and returned to 
                        Huntington County
                     by 1884. In 1892 he resigned his office as township trustee and sought relief for
                    troubling rheumatism in a more southern climate, namely the Indian Territory (present day 
                        Oklahoma
                    ). Unable to find a land claim, Zent started a tinsmith business in the town of Okarche,
                    near 
                        Oklahoma
                     City, but apparently stayed only a few months there, for in September of that year he
                    returned to 
                        Roanoke
                    . Still in need of relief from his ailment, in November, 1893, Zent returned to the
                    territory, settling in the town of Blackwell in 
                        Kay County
                    , directly north of 
                        Oklahoma
                     City near the 
                        Kansas
                     border. He established another tinsmithing business and "fited [sic] up a nice comfortable room over my shop in which I have been Batching it to my hearts
                    content…." There Zent spent most of his leisure time reading from his personal
                    library and finding "no body to scold me if I happened to be late to meals and no one to
                    find fault with the cooking." Zent's second stay in the Indian Territory was
                    short-lived as well. Soon he decided that he liked 
                        Roanoke
                     better than Blackwell and begrudgingly admitted that he had a "sneaking
                    notion" that his wife's "head was about level or the head of any body
                    else, that was contented to leave well enough alone and remain where they are." He became
                    determined to return to Indiana and stay there for the remainder of his days, for at the age of
                    sixty he was getting too old ‘(to rough it much longer out here on the
                    frontier." While he was away in the Indian Territory, Zent's wife, daughter, and
                    son-in-law remained in Indiana, lived in the family home, and worked his sixty-acre 
                        Huntington County
                     farm.51
            
            Zent returned to 
                        Roanoke
                     in 1895 and was confined to his home as an invalid until his death from heart disease
                    on March 17, 1897, at the age of sixty-two. Members of his old Civil War regiment, the 13th Indiana,
                    attended the funeral and served as pallbearers. The 
                  
                     50 Eriksson, "
                                Sioux City
                             and the Black Hills Gold Rush," 347, 339. For more information on the
                            Black Hills legal debate, see Herbert T. Hoover, "The Sioux Agreement of 1889 and
                            Its Aftermath," South Dakota History, XIX (Spring, 1989), 56-94.
                  
                     51 Colonel Samuel Zent, Blackwell, Indian Territory, to P. A. Joray,
                            February 3, 1895, original in the possession of Robert Zent. A local newspaper claimed that
                            Samuel Zent went to 
                                Oklahoma
                             not only for his health but also for business opportunities in the new
                            territory. 
                                Huntington
                            
                            Herald, March 19, 1897.
               
                     officer delivering the eulogy noted, "His name is
                    written indelibly on life's history and now he sleeps well.52
            
            Shortly before his death Colonel Samuel Zent seemed to summarize his life's travels in a
                    letter to a friend in 
                        Ligonier
                    : "My roaming restless disposition and inate [sic] love of
                    adventure has made it a hard matter for me to hold myself in any one place long
                        …."53 Indeed, Zent was like thousands of others who
                    hoped to escape economic depression by finding riches in the Black Hills gold rush of the mid-1870s.
                    Like most, he failed to find his fortune there. Nonetheless, he left historians with riches of a
                    different kind, for he documented his adventures with the Gordon party and as an independent miner,
                    giving a glimpse into the life of a tenderfoot prospector during one of America's greatest
                    periods of gold-hunting fever.
            
               
                  52
                        
                            Huntington
                        
                        Daily Democrat, March 17, 1897; Zent scrapbook, 
                            Huntington
                         Public Library.
               
                  53 Zent to P. A. Joray, February 3, 1895.
            
         
         
         
            "Please Send Stamps": The Civil War Letters of William Allen Clark Part III*
            
            
                    Edited by Margaret Black Tatum
                    **
                
            On November 16, 1864, William Allen Clark writes to his parents in 
                        Clinton County
                    , Indiana, from his Civil War encampment in 
                        Alabama
                    , "I could give you a sircumstance of political strategy, but I only Carey a
                    gun, so I had better keep mum." Penned after Stones River,
                    Hoover's Gap, Chickamauga, 
                        Chattanooga
                    , Lookout Mountain, Missionary Gap, and countless other battles, his words reflect his
                    exhaustion, his penchant for sarcasm, and his devotion to duty. Indeed, these emotions are themes in
                    almost all his letters home from July, 1863, through February, 1864. To David C. and Mary
                    Clark—farmers from north central Indiana, steadfast Missionary Baptists, equally
                    steadfast Democrats—their son complains, typically, about army life, makes homesick pleas
                    for news from the Hoosier state, subtly hints of his infatuation with Alma 
                        Jordan
                    , a cousin, and concludes almost every letter with requests for paper and stamps. Most
                    importantly, as the summer of 1864 approaches, he predicts all too accurately what he will face as
                    he marches into 
                        Georgia
                     with General William T. Sherman. His letters to his family are less frequent, but more
                    piquant.
            Although much of what Clark reports is rumor, he more frequently comments about the war in his
                    letters written from midsummer, 1863, through February, 1864. Whether in a military or political
                    context, his statements prove once again that he is an Indiana Democrat. Clark opposes the war, but
                    his opposition to a divided Union is stronger. He is anti-abolitionist, antiblack. He grumbles about
                    Governor Oliver P. Morton's policies as well as President Lincoln's, rejoicing
                    when election results celebrate "a big man's littleness." His humor
                    remains subtle. In midsummer, 1863, both Robert E. Lee and George G. Meade are acting "in
                    the Defensive!" he reports. There is fighting at 
                  Charleston, South Carolina; Brashear City, Mississippi
               , has fallen to the Rebs, he believes; and 
                  
                     * For Parts I and II of the four-part series of William
                            Allen Clark Civil War letters, see Margaret Black Tatum, ed., "‘Please
                            Send Stamps’: The Civil War Letters of William Allen Clark," Indiana Magazine of History, XCI (March, June, 1995), 81-108, 197-225.
                            Part IV will appear in December, 1995.
                  
                     * Margaret Black Tatum is an English instructor at Kirtland
                            Community College, Roscommon, 
                                Michigan
                            .
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, XCI (September, 1995), © 1995, Trustees of Indiana
                            University.
               
                    
                    
                        France
                     and 
                        Spain
                     are trying to join the fray. "I guess peace wont be made yet for two or three
                    months," he writes his parents.
            Clark enlisted in the Union Army on August 8, 1862. He spends the anniversary of his first year in
                    service in 
                        Tennessee
                     and admits that he does not know why he joined the army. Later, in September, after the
                    carnage at 
                        Chickamauga
                    , he writes tiredly: "I will quit making peace Prophecies. All the Bright
                    prospects have Vanished." The battlefield pictures of Stones River and
                    Chickamauga have wounded his memory, coloring the beauty of 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     with blood and overlaying it with images of the body of his regimental chaplain,
                    decapitated at Hoover's Gap. Not even Christians, the nineteen-year-old Clark realizes, are
                    protected from war's brutality, and he admonishes himself for volunteering for war because
                    he thought it would be glorious. An ineffective army regime, "Despotic" officers,
                    and ever-present danger make up reality.
            With at least part of the 72nd Indiana encamped in Huntsville, 
                        Alabama
                    , for a while, Clark relaxes. He enjoys church and the company of the local Baptist
                    minister, the Reverend David Adams, a "Peace man" who "is opposed to the
                    war on both sides." The Adamses invite Clark into their home, and readers can assume that
                    it is not only the minister's hospitality but also the minister's daughter,
                    Maggie, that make Clark feel light-hearted. The letters from Huntsville are particularly well
                    written, the sentences long, descriptive, and reflective. Clark sees 
                        Clinton County
                    , Indiana, in the eyes and faces of the Huntsville residents. His days in 
                        Alabama
                     are almost like being home, he says, although he still misses his family and the
                    Rossville farm.
            Indeed, loneliness and a sense of isolation pervade all of Clark's correspondence. With
                    little information except that allowed by army commanders, he begs for news in almost every letter:
                    news about friends at home and in the army; news of his younger brother George's carefree
                    escapades in school and on the farm; news concerning the draft, elections, and politics in Indiana;
                    news as to political maneuverings in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C.; even news about what he himself has done and might be doing on the battlefields
                    in the South. "Nothing is as acceptable as a letter from home."
            On February 28, 1864, Clark writes perhaps the most moving of all his Civil War letters. Seated
                    "with my back to you," he describes to his parents the activities that he knows
                    are underway in their 
                        Clinton County
                    , Indiana, home on a rainy Sunday morning. It is raining in 
                  Mooresville, Madison
                County, 
                        Alabama
                    , too, "not showers," he says, "but big drops that fall
                    straight to the ground." Clark uses this quiet time to detail all the minutia of camp life.
                    In a sense, his letter is representative of the thousands sent home during the war. He writes of the
                    weather, contrabands, camp recreational activities, smallpox, his quarters, which include
                    "a fancy cupboard, and writing desk," his clothing, the sutlers, pictures for
                    those at  home, war news, religion. He comments on news from
                    home and concludes, as always, "I have no stamps, and I would like to have a few if you
                    will be kind enough to send them."
            Throughout his first year and a half as a Union soldier, Clark continues to count his blessings; he
                    also remains politically fixed in his beliefs. He opposes abolitionists, hates blacks, challenges
                    the emancipation of slaves, dislikes what he terms censorship by the army commanders, distrusts the
                    growing power of state and federal governments. He believes in compromise, and he wants to go home.
                    Most importantly, however, he opposes secession. His refusal to see the Union severed takes him
                    deeper into the South in 1864 and 1865 as he follows Sherman across 
                        Georgia
                     to 
                        Atlanta
                    . Then, eventually, he and the 72nd make their way back across 
                  Tennessee, Alabama
               , and 
                        Kentucky
                    , home.
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [1863]
                                    
                              Estell Spring [Estill Springs], Tenn.
                           
                                    July 12th1
                           
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        I seat myself to pen you a few lines to let you know that I am still enjoying good
                                    health. I havent heard from you since the 22nd of last month, but I guess the R.
                                    Road is tore up at Muldoe's Hill, Ky., which has prevented our getting the
                                    mail.
                        I dont know anything to write. We dont get any papers, and consequently know nothing
                                    save what transpires in our own Department. The Couriers say that our advance is at
                                    Stevenson, Ala. The cars run to Deckard [Decherd, 
                                        Tennessee
                                    ] now. Our force have taken several thousand prisoners, since we left
                                    Murfreesboro. It had rained nearly all the time for the last 20 days, and I fear it
                                    will rain again tonight.2 The roads are almost impassable. We
                                    get only 1/2 Rations from the Government, but we are in a good Country for Forage.
                                    The Mountains are full of ripe Blackberries & Huckleberries. Apples are
                                    plenty, and peaches in abundance.
                        We heard to day that Morgan was at 
                                        Salem
                                    , Ind. with 5000 men and two Batteries.3
                        
                        
                           
                              1 William Allen Clark guided the following transcription
                                        of his correspondence by reminding his brother George, in a letter of January 9,
                                        1865, to place periods at the end of sentences and to capitalize proper names.
                                        For the editorial procedures followed by the editor of these letters see
                                        Margaret Black Tatum, ed., "‘Please Send Stamps’:
                                        The Civil War Letters of William Allen Clark," Part I, Indiana Magazine of History, XCI (March, 1995), 88n. One letter from
                                        David C. Clark to his son has been inserted in its proper chronological order.
                           
                              2 In July, 1863, Clark was still a private in Company K of
                                        the 72nd Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment. In April of that year Richard H.
                                        McIntire had replaced Hiram B. Collins as captain of Company K, Colonel Abram O.
                                        Miller was regimental commander. The 72nd belonged to Colonel John T.
                                        Wilder's famed "Lightning Brigade" of mounted
                                        infantry, i.e., the First Brigade, which was assigned to the 4th Division, under
                                        the command of General Joseph J. Reynolds; XIV Corps, commanded by General
                                        George H. Thomas; Army of the Cumberland, commanded by General William S.
                                        Rosecrans. As this series of letters begins, the 72nd is in something of a
                                        hiatus following the Tullahoma campaign, one purpose of which had been to
                                        prevent Confederate General Braxton Bragg from reinforcing General John C.
                                        Pemberton at 
                                            Vicksburg
                                        . The brilliantly planned campaign, in which the Lightning Brigade
                                        had participated, was successful despite torrential rains that fell day after
                                        day for more than two weeks. The Confederate Army of the 
                                            Tennessee
                                         was forced to pull back to 
                                            Chattanooga
                                        . [William H. H. Terrell], Report of the Adjutant
                                            General of the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1866-1869), II, 665, 671, 672-73; Benjamin F. McGee, History of the 72d Indiana Volunteer Infantry of the Mounted Lightning
                                            Brigade, ed. William R. Jewell (
                                            Lafayette
                                        , Ind., 1882), 128-42; Mark Mayo Boatner III, The Civil
                                            War Dictionary (
                                            New York
                                        , 1959), 850-51; James M. McPherson, ed., The Atlas of
                                            the Civil War (
                                            New York
                                        , 1994), 128-29. Although the regimental historian's name
                                        is properly spelled Magee, it is incorrectly printed McGee on the book's title page.
                           
                              3 To support Bragg's defense of 
                                            Chattanooga
                                         and central 
                                            Tennessee
                                        , Confederate General John Hunt Morgan and approximately 2,500
                                        cavalrymen conducted raids throughout 
                                            Tennessee
                                         and 
                                            Kentucky
                                         in early July, 1863. On July 8, against explicit orders, Morgan
                                        crossed the Ohio River at 
                                 Brandenburg, Kentucky
                              , and invaded the Hoosier state. Panic
                                        ensued. Hastily assembled local militia units were no match for
                                        Morgan's seasoned cavalry. The Confederates easily defeated forces in a
                                        battle at Corydon and raced quickly north and east across Indiana via
                                                
                                 Salem, Lexington
                              , and Vernon. They exited
                                        the state near Harrison, 
                                            Ohio
                                        , on July 13. Perhaps
                        
                        
                        Our Sutler cant Bring in goods now, on account of the mud. So I am out of both paper
                                    and Envelopes. I wish you would send me some of each. The boys are having big times
                                    over the fall of Vicks-burgh.4 Every fellow is setting his time
                                    to get home. None of them put it off longer than six months, and others say it will
                                    be settled in two months. It would please me if it could end in one. But the
                                    prospect dont look very flattering to me.
                        We have no preaching now, as our Chaplain was killed in the fight at
                                    Hoover's Gap.5 had a good time to day picking Berries
                                    up in the mountains, only the snakes are too plenty to suit me.
                        I believe I will quit for this time. This is my third letter since I heard from you.
                                    Please write as often as once a week. My love to all who may inquire. No more at
                                    present but remain your dutiful Son,
                        
                                    Will
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Normandy, Tenn.
                           
                                    July 19th 1863
                                
                        Affectionate Parents,
                        I seat myself this pleasant Sabbath morning to pen you a few lines to let you know
                                    how I am getting along. I am well at present, but had a severe attack of Cramp the
                                    first of the week. The health is generaly good.
                        I received a letter last night from home dated the 7th, also one from Jonas D. and 1
                                    from Stephen Erehart.6 We have received no mail for two weeks
                                    till last night. We was paid off yesterday for four months. I sent $25.00
                                    to John Allen in 
                                        Frankfort
                                     [Indiana] by the State Agent.7 You can get it there
                                    and dispose of it as you think 
                              Morgan expected the allegedly disloyal citizens of southern Indiana to
                                            flock to his support; if so, he was mistaken. Hoosiers, whatever their
                                            political proclivities, proved more than ready to defend their homes against
                                            the Confederate invasion. Although the Federal pursuit under General Ambrose
                                            E. Burnside was clumsy and slow, it was eventually effective. On July 26
                                            Morgan and his men were captured and incarcerated in the federal
                                            penitentiary in 
                                    Columbus,
                                                    Ohio
                                 . Other than
                                            destroying considerable private property and causing widespread
                                            damage—and creating myriad Hoosier legends—the dashing
                                            Confederate general had accomplished nothing. Federal operations were not
                                            significantly affected. For a complete discussion of Morgan's raid
                                            see James A. Ramage, Rebel Raider: The Life of General John
                                                Hunt Morgan (
                                                Lexington
                                            , Ky., 19861, 170-82; Scott Roller, "Business As Usual:
                                            Indiana's Response to the Confederate Invasions of the Summer of
                                            1863," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXVIII
                                            (March, 19921, 1-25.
                              
                                 4 Vicksburg, 
                                                Mississippi
                                            , surrendered on July 4, 1863.
                              
                                 5 John R. Eddy was killed at Hoover's Gap, 
                                                Tennessee
                                            , on June 24, 1863. Terrell, Report of the Indiana
                                                Adjutant General, II, 666. See also Tatum,
                                            "‘Please Send Stamps,’" Part II,
                                            223.
                              
                                 6 Jonas D. was William Allen Clark's brother;
                                            Stephen S. Erehart his cousin. For a complete list of family
                                            members—who will not hereafter be identified in
                                            notes—see Appendix, p. 320.
                              
                                 7 Devising a system to facilitate the transmission of
                                            soldiers‘ pay to dependents at home proved one of the most
                                            difficult tasks for the state and national administrations during the Civil
                                            War. By 1863 the Indiana Allotment Commission was in charge of the Hoosier
                                            state's procedure. Each command in the field was provided with
                                            rolls on which each soldier could specify the amount he desired to send home
                                            and the name and residence of the person to whom it should be sent. The
                                            paymaster 
                           
                                     best. I was indebted to the Sutler some. I
                                    could have sent $15 more, but if by sickness or wounds, I should be
                                    rendered unfit for duty, I would be in a bad row for stamps. A man dont get an
                                    accomadation here for less than double price.
                        I want you to send me some stamps and paper, also Envelopes. They are indispensable
                                    articles, and it is hard to get them here.
                        The reports say that Port Hudson has surrendered with 6,000 men.8
                                    Also that Charleston is taken. Lee has got back to 
                                        Virginia
                                    .9 Sheridan's Division is 40 miles south of
                                    here at Bridgeport, Ala. Bragg's Army is divided, part went to 
                                        Knoxville
                                     and part to 
                              Atlanta,
                                            Georgia
                           .‘10 There is big reports of the Riot in 
                                        New York
                                    .11 I think it will prove a damper to the
                                    Administration.
                        I see by the Cin. Commercial that Seward wants to Compromise with
                                    the South, and have the old Constitution as a Standpoint. He is willing to give the
                                    leaders of the Rebellion an Amnesty, and said that if the people of 
                                        South Carolina
                                     would elect Jeff Davis 
                              could issue a check on a 
                                                New York
                                             bank for the aggregate amount allotted by each company; the pay
                                            agent could cash the check and remit the money in accordance with the
                                            individual allotments. Clark, it appears, continued to use an older system
                                            whereby state agents appointed by Governor Oliver P. Morton, as part of
                                            their myriad duties, collected money from soldiers in the field and carried
                                            it back to Indiana to be forwarded by express or other means to families or
                                            friends. For a discussion of these and the various other systems used during
                                            the war see William H. H. Terrell, Indiana in the War of the
                                                Rebellion; Vol. I, Report of the Adjutant General
                                            (1869; reprint, Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XLI; 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 19601, 467-73. From 1855 to 1864 a John Allen owned and
                                            operated a hotel in 
                                                Frankfort
                                            . It is also possible that he or another John Allen ran the
                                            express office in the town. Clark could have had his pay and other packages
                                            sent to either place as a central pick-up point in the county. History of 
                                                    Clinton County
                                                , Indiana … (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 18861, 532.
                              
                                 8 A Confederate strong point guarding the
                                                Mississippi River approximately twenty-five miles
                                            above 
                                    Baton Rouge, Louisiana
                                 , Port Hudson
                                            surrendered on June 9, 1863, after a siege that began on May 27. Confederate
                                            losses are estimated at more than 7,200 including 5,500 prisoners. Boatner,
                                                Civil War Dictionary, 663.
                              
                                 9 Between April and September, 1863, Federal forces
                                            made a concerted effort to take 
                                    Charleston, South
                                                Carolina
                                 , first from the sea, then by siege,
                                            Although they did capture Battery Wagner on Morris Island in 
                                                Charleston
                                             harbor, the city itself remained in Confederate hands until
                                            February, 1865. McPherson, Atlas of the Civil War, 126-27,
                                            208. Following his defeat at 
                                                Gettysburg
                                             on July 4, 1863, Robert E. Lee successfully retreated into 
                                                Virginia
                                             when Union General George G. Meade failed to consolidate his
                                            victory by attacking the Confederates before they could cross the Potomac.
                                            Robert E. Denney, The Civil War Years: A Day-by-Day Chronicle
                                                of the Life of a Nation (
                                                New York
                                            , 1992), 298-312.
                              
                                 10 Union General Philip H. Sheridan commanded the 3rd
                                            Division of the Army of the Cumberland in July, 1863. He and the rest of
                                            Rosecrans's forces were maneuvering in preparation for the capture
                                            of 
                                                Chattanooga
                                             and the Chickamauga campaign. The bulk of Bragg's army
                                            was gathering around 
                                                Chattanooga
                                            . McPherson, Atlas of the Civil War, 128-35.
                              
                                 11 A national conscription act passed on March 3,
                                            1863, culminated in a number of draft riots throughout the North, the worst
                                            of which occurred in 
                                                New York
                                             City, July 13-16. A mob stormed the draft headquarters, burned
                                            houses, and looted stores. Blacks were the prime targets for the mob,
                                            composed mainly of working-class Irish; an African-American church and
                                            orphanage were burned. Damages were estimated at $1,500,000, and
                                            approximately one thousand lives were lost. Federal troops brought from the
                                            front finally dispersed the rioters. Denney, Civil War
                                            Years, 308-309; Boatner, Civil War Dictionary,
                                            245-46.
                           
                                     to the U. S. Senate, he had no objections to
                                    it, but the President and part of the Cabinet refused to Compromise without
                                    Stipulating the exile of the leaders of secession and the extirpation of Slavery, as
                                    the prerogative of Peace. If this is all true, Wm. H. Seward is Politically
                                    immortalized, and the Death Knell of Old Abe has sounded (ie.) Politicaly.12
                        
                        You needent laugh at me for saying that I think we will get home this fall for the
                                    most of the Soldiers here are of the same opinion. I think peace will be made by the
                                    first of November.
                        Peaches is getting ripe, and there is an abundance of them. I believe I have wrote
                                    enough for this time. Please excuse bad writing as I am very nervous since I had the
                                    Cramp. Write soon and often. Nothing is as acceptable as a letter from home.
                        
                                    Your Affectionate Son,
                                    Allen.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Normandy, 
                                    Fayette
                                  Co., Tenn.
                           
                                    July 25th 1863
                                    Near midnight.
                                
                        I take my pen to write to you to let you know that I havent quit thinking of home
                                    yet. We have just received orders to march in the morning at 5 o'clock with
                                    two days Rations, and I thought it best to write a few lines tonight for fear that I
                                    wouldent get to write for some time. I do not know our destination.
                        I received a letter from you day before yesterday, dated the 17th. It pleased me to
                                    hear of your good health. I am well at present. I was at the Depot today, loading
                                    corn & oats for our horses. It was hard work as the corn sacks contained 3
                                    Bu. and the oats sacks, 5 Bu. There was 20 of us to load 72 Wagons. We completed the
                                    job at 4 o'clock and I expected to spend a quiet Sabbath in camp, writing
                                    and reading, but the programme is changed. I will in all probability be splashing
                                    through the mud, (but thanks to Col. Wilder) it will be on horse back. We have not
                                    had rain for several days, but it is thundering now. I think it will rain before
                                    morning.
                        I got a letter from Elizabeth Porter when I got the last from you. They were all
                                    well. I also got one from S. S. & M. G. Clark.
                        War news is unimportant. Morgan is still on the alert and uncaptured.13
                        
                        
                           
                              12 As Clark was aware, peace was in the air in the summer
                                        of 1863. Several newspapers throughout the country, among them the 
                                            New York
                                        
                                        Herald, published a number of peace proposals attributed to
                                        Secretary of State William H. Seward. Although Seward was willing to be far more
                                        conciliatory toward the South than many in Lincoln's Cabinet and
                                        although he discussed privately, with the president and others, various peace
                                        and reconstruction plans, he did not favor the reinstitution of slavery, amnesty
                                        for southern leaders, an armistice, payment of southern debts, or foreign
                                        intervention in any form, all of which were mentioned in the various peace
                                        proposals. For a discussion of Seward's position on these and similar
                                        issues, see Glyndon G. Van Deusen, William Henry Seward (
                                            New York
                                        , 19671, 376-89.
                           
                              13 See note 3 above.
                        
                        
                        Lee and Meade is both acting in the Defensive! Meade is defending Abe & Vice
                                    Versa with Lee and Jeff. They are reported fighting at 
                                        Charleston
                                    . The Rebs have taken 
                              Brashear
                                        City, Mississippi
                           . 
                                        France
                                     and 
                                        Spain
                                     is said to be trying to get a hand in the mess.14 I
                                    guess peace wont be made yet for two or three months.
                        It is raining, so I must close.
                        
                                    Your affectionate Son,
                                    Allen
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp near Decherd, Tenn.
                           
                                    August 2nd '63
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        I take my pen to write you a few lines to let you know how I am getting along. It is
                                    4 o'clock P.M., and the mercury stands at 87° with some prospect
                                    of rain. There is no war news worth writing. There appears to be an ominous Calm in
                                    the Military atmosphere.
                        We are in a pretty country. It is well watered, but the crops are light in
                                    consequence of the heavy rains of the forepart of last month. We are on half
                                    rations. True we have plenty of hard tack, but man cant live by Bread alone, and we
                                    have had nothing else since yesterday morning. But we don't do much,
                                    consequently dont eat much. I guess we will get full Rations tonight as there was a
                                    train of supplies come in for Reynold's Div. to day.
                        We are to have inspection in about an hour to inspect Arms, accoutrements, clothing,
                                    and horse Equipment. I have been busy to day cleaning my gun and clothes in order to
                                    make a respectable appearance.
                        I would have wrote this morning, but thought I would wait till the mail come. It has
                                    arrived now, but nothing for me. I have received no letters from anyone for sometime
                                    except one from you, which contained the ground work of five letters complete. The
                                    envelops and stamps are of the most importance. I succeeded in getting some paper
                                    off the Sutler by giving three prices for it.
                        Cosmas Rhodes of the 10th Regiment was here yesterday. There is some talk of their
                                    Regiment coming into Wilder's Division. The 4th Cavalry is camped about two
                                    miles from here, but I cant get to them on account of provost Guards. I am going to
                                    get a pass to visit them tomorrow, provided we dont leave.15
                        
                        
                           
                              14 Following 
                                            Gettysburg
                                        , the Union and Confederate forces maneuvered back and forth across 
                                            Virginia
                                         seeking a decisive victory. Neither was successful, and both armies
                                        retired to their winter encampments to await the spring campaigns. McPherson,
                                            Atlas of the Civil War, 138-39. For information on the
                                        situation at 
                                            Charleston
                                        , see note 9 above. For discussions of possible recognition of the
                                        South by both 
                                            France
                                         and Britain in 1862 and 1863, see James M. McPherson, Battle Cry of Freedom: The Civil War Era (1988; 
                                            New York
                                        , 19911, 650-51; Eric Foner and John A. Garraty, eds., Reader's Companion to American History (
                                            Boston
                                        , 19911, 188-90.
                           
                              15 A Conners Rhodes, listed as residing in 
                                            Fountain County
                                        , served in Company G of the 10th Indiana Volunteer Infantry
                                        Regiment. A number of men in Company I, 4th Indiana Cavalry (77th Regiment) were
                                        from 
                                            Clinton County
                                         and adjacent areas. Terrell, Report of the Indiana
                                            Adjutant General, IV, 165-66, III, 17, VI, 259-61.
                        
                        
                        We are 90 miles from 
                                        Nashville
                                     and 30 from the Tennessee River, also about 40
                                    miles from 
                                        Chattanooga
                                    . It was reported yesterday that Bragg had got his Army back into 
                                        Kentucky
                                    .16 It looks as if the Department of the 
                                        Ohio
                                     paid more attention to Civilians than to the Rebellion, but if Bragg is
                                    there, his fate is certain. He will have to room with John Morgan at 
                                        Columbus
                                    . It seems to me that the Rebellion had its back Broke by the movements
                                    of the last 60 days. The fall of 
                                        Pulaski
                                    , Vicksburgh, and Port Hudson, the defeat of Lee in 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                     and Bragg's Route from this state, with Morgan's
                                    Capture, are blows that have struck the Confederacy at its vital points, and it is
                                    now making its death struggles. I was fearful of the consequence when we heard of
                                    the Riot in N. Y., but it has been effectually quelled, and the resistance of the
                                    Conscription is doubtful at an end.
                        It is now almost a year since I left home and its associations. I am still alive and
                                    well, notwithstanding Mother's predictions to the Contrary. But I am sorry
                                    to say that I am not making the improvements in an Educational point of view, or in
                                    industry that is necessary in order to be a useful and influential member of
                                    Society. We have no Chaplain, as it was the stern hand of providence that severed
                                    his head from his Body by a Shell in the Battle of Hoover's Gap. I have
                                    only heard one Sermon in the last four months. I must quit till after Inspection.
                        I grasp my pen again to complete what I have commenced. We have been reviewed by Col.
                                    Kirk Patrick, Major Robinson, and Adjutant Burnes.17 Robinson
                                    gave me a lecturing for not fastening all the Buttons of my coat. They were all
                                    Buttoned but two, so you may Know how strict our Discipline is. I like Camp life,
                                    but I detest Tyrannical Officers. They are the Bane of Soldier life. I have never
                                    been put on extra duty or punished for disobedience, but I have seen enough
                                    punishment inflicted on others to satisfy me that all is not quiet on the
                                    Cumberland.
                        If I knew how long we would stay here, I would tell you, but it is hard to tell. We
                                    may leave tomorrow, or we may stay here three months. There is some talk of our
                                    going to 
                                        Tracy City
                                     [
                                        Tennessee
                                    ]. It is 15 miles east of here. It is up on the mountains. I hope we
                                    wont go there. It will be almost impossible to get supplies up the mountains.
                        The 86th Regiment is at McMin Ville [
                                        Tennessee
                                    ]. I heard from Henry Mohler yesterday. He is well. I admire the Courage
                                    of Amous Miller, and Co. I dident think those peaceful youths of Rossville 
                              
                                 16 Bragg was, in fact, concentrating the majority of
                                            his forces around 
                                                Chattanooga
                                            . McPherson, Atlas of the Civil War, 128-29.
                              
                                 17 Milton S. Robinson of Indiana commanded the 2nd
                                            Brigade, 4th Division, XIV Corps, Army of the Cumberland in August, 1863.
                                            Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 705. Samuel C. Kirkpatrick
                                            was lieutenant colonel and William K. Byrns was adjutant of the 72nd
                                            Indiana. Terrell, Report of the Indiana Adjutant General,
                                            II, 665.
                           
                                     would expose themselves to the Horrors of War
                                    for the unprecedented long period of 30 days, unless sooner discharged. They are
                                    certainly intitled to the Roll of Honor.18
                        
                        Tomorrow is Election day in 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , and as the state is under martial law, I presume a man can vote for
                                    Bramlette, or not vote atall. A beautiful farce truly. One day more will tell
                                    whether we are to be allowed the right of Suffrage in its purity.19
                        
                        I have wrote enough for one time so I will close. Write soon, and I want to hear from
                                    George also. My respects to the Neighborhood.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    Wm. A. Clark
                                    
                              72nd Regt. Ind. Vols. Co. K care of R. H. McIntire
                              Wilder's Brigade
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Decherd, Tenn.
                           
                                    August 9th 1863
                                    Sabbath Evening
                                
                        Father, Mother, and Brothers, etc.,
                        One year ago today I enlisted what for I couldent tell. I did it without reflecting
                                    what the life of a Volunteer was. I dident appreciate the comforts and Blessings of
                                    home. In fact I done it just to be doing, and as luck would have it, I was entrapped
                                    so securely that Begging off would have been silly. The first six months I made a
                                    dunce of myself by fretting about spilt milk. I then came to the conclusion to make
                                    the best of a bad bargain. Since then I have had good health and have been
                                    contented. The war has been prolonged much longer than I then thought it would be.
                                    The clouds of' war are now brokend, but there is a dark cloud still hanging
                                    in the horizon. No one can tell when it will be compromised, but my time is one
                                    third out, and I have escaped unhurt so far unless my morals are injured. Of that it
                                    is not for me to judge of myself.
                        It is raining today. We have drawn ten days' Rations and are ordered to be
                                    ready to march at a moment's warning. Our destination is in the future to
                                    be proclaimed. I hope we will have better weather than we did after leaving
                                    Murfreesboro. The Officers think we will start in the morning at six.
                        
                           
                              18 A number of 
                                            Clinton County
                                         men, including Henry Mohler, a corporal in Company I and a close
                                        friend and neighbor of Clark, served with the 86th Indiana Volunteer Infantry
                                        Regiment. Terrell, Report of the Indiana Adjutant General,
                                        III, 76-78, VI, 388-402. Following Governor Oliver P. Morton's call for
                                        volunteers to repel Morgan's invasion of Indiana in July, 1863,
                                        thirteen regiments—the 102nd through the 114th—of Minute
                                        Men were mustered into the state's service, and thousands more men
                                        awaited official organization. Although they had volunteered for thirty
                                        days' service, most were mustered out within a week. In all probability
                                        Amos Miller was one of these volunteers. Ibid., I, Appendix,
                                        95, 300; Terrell, Indiana in the War of the Rebellion, 565.
                           
                              19 In August, 1863, Union Democrat Thomas E. Bramlette, an
                                        ardent Unionist, was elected governor of 
                                            Kentucky
                                         over Charles A. Wickliffe, a regular Democrat, by a vote of 68,422
                                        to 17,503. Lowell H. Harrison, ed., 
                                 
                                                Kentucky
                                            's Governors, 1792-1985 (
                                            Lexington
                                        , Ky., 1985), 77-81.
                        
                        
                        I received a letter from Sam [Cade] not long since. They were all well, and Elyza is
                                    very much Antislavery. Perhaps she would be more so if she saw more of its evil
                                    consequences.
                        Of the Indiana draft, we hear nothing.20 In fact all military
                                    affairs appear to be at a standstill. Sometimes I think I would like to have a
                                    furlough, but if I was to get home for a few days it would only make me hate to
                                    start back to the Regiment. I heard today that Isaac Briant was married. Is it true?
                                    I think he must be in a hurry, if he is.
                        We have plenty of corn and peaches now by paying 10 cents per Dozen. Cheap enough. I
                                    heard to day that Mr. Miller was killed by his horse running off. It appears that
                                    the stern hand of death dont confine itself to the Army. The health of the Regiment
                                    is better now than it has been since we crossed the 
                                        Ohio
                                    .
                        We received new Regimental Colors today. They have the name of the Regiment and the
                                    Battle of Stone's River engraved on them.
                        I have not heard from you since the time you sent the Envelops. You either dont write
                                    as often as you did, or they go to the Dead Letter Office. I have only received two
                                    letters for some time. I have told you enough to satisfy you that I am well. So I
                                    will close for the time. Please write soon, and if it isent too much trouble, I
                                    would like for you to save my letters. It will be a pleasure to peruse them if I
                                    should get home. One and all, write to me. George be a good boy, a pleasant Evening
                                    to you.
                        
                                    Your Son,
                                    Will
                                
                        The Bugle is blowing for Church. The first for two months, by the Chaplain of
                                    the 17th Regt.21 I will go and hear what he has to
                                say.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        [Addressed to "George W. Clark, The Celebrated Sportsman"]
                        
                                    
                              
                                 Rackcoon Mountain, 
                                    Hamilton County
                                 , Tenn.
                           
                                    Sabbath morning, August 30th/63
                                
                        Mr. G. W. Clark, good morning,
                        It is just 4 weeks since I have wrote a letter. We left Decherd on the 15th and went
                                    to 
                                        Tracy City
                                     [
                                        Tennessee
                                    ], staid there 1 day, and then started for parts unknown. We got here on
                                    the 21st and commenced Shelling Chattenooga. We have been Shelling 'n
                                    trenching and picketing ever since. I cant see that the town is any nearer 
                              
                                 20 It was not necessary to draft from Indiana under
                                            the Conscription Act of March 3, 1863, until after the call for troops of
                                            July 18, 1864. For discussions of this and the draft of 1862, see Charles E.
                                            Canup, "Conscription and Draft in Indiana during the Civil
                                            War," Indiana Magazine of History, X (June,
                                            1914), 70-83; Terrell, Indiana in the War of the
                                            Rebellion, 49-68, passim. See also Tatum,
                                            "‘Please Send Stamps,"’ Part I,
                                            81-82n.
                              
                                 21 In August, 1863, the chaplain of the 17th Indiana
                                            Volunteer Infantry Regiment was Safety Layton, whose residence was listed as 
                                                Logansport
                                            . Terrell, Report of the Indiana Adjutant
                                            General, II, 146.
                           
                                     taken than it was a week ago.22 It is larger than 
                                        Lafayette
                                     [Indiana], on the south bank of Tenn. River, and
                                    it is surrounded by mountains 1500 feet high. Our Knapsacks is at Dunlop [
                                        Tennessee
                                    ], 25 miles from here, so I have no pen ink or paper except what I can
                                    beg of the Captain. And I fear the knapsacks will be thrown away when we left
                                    Decherd. The Col. said we was going to camp at Tracy for a week or more, and as we
                                    expected a fight there, he advised us to put all our valuables in the wagon. So if
                                    the knapsack is lost, I will lose miniatures, clothing, postage Stamps, etc.
                        We got a mail last night. I got a letter from Grandmother and 1 from you. We have
                                    plenty of peaches and Apples, but only get 1/2 Rations of meat and Bread.
                        We are close enough to the Enemy to hear their Drums and Bugles. We stand picket on
                                    one bank of the River, and they on the other. I wont write much this time for I am
                                    not certain that I will get to send it. If you get it, please write soon, and tell
                                    all the news. I haven't seen a paper for a month, so I dont [get] any news
                                    outside of this Department. I hope my next will be wrote on the other side of the
                                        Tenn. River.
                        I am well and hope this will find you the same. No more at present, but remain your
                                    Affectionate Brother,
                        
                                    William A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp near Black Oak Grove, 
                                    Georgia
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sept. 15th ‘63
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        This (if it reaches you) will inform you where I am, how I am, and what we have been
                                    doing. I received a letter from you last night dated the 8th inst. This is the first
                                    that I have wrote for some time, as we have had no chance to send any mail. We
                                    crossed the [Tennessee] River on the 9th and commenced persuing
                                    the Enemy. We went to Ringgold in this state and had a light Skirmish, two wounded.
                                    We went on to Tunnel Hill and had a Skirmish, no harm done to us. Rebel loss, 10
                                    killed. We went back to Ringgold and started out on the 
                                        LaFayette
                                     Road. We went 8 or 10 miles and was ambushed by Scott's
                                    Guerillas, 3000 strong. We repulsed them in about an hour. Our loss was 8 killed and
                                    13 wounded, all belonging to the 72nd. The Captain of Co. II [Co. I] was killed. His
                                    name was McMertrie. Our Company was on the right of the Skirmish line. The fighting
                                    on the left was in a field, and we was in the woods. We got behind trees so as to
                                    protect us from their Sharp Shooters. 
                              
                                 22 Following its successful Tullahoma campaign, the
                                            Army of the Cumberland set out to follow Bragg to 
                                                Chattanooga
                                            . Dividing his army, Rosecrans crossed the Tennessee
                                                River in four places and began a broad-front advance
                                            southeast across the state. At least two wings of the Army of the Cumberland
                                            fronted 
                                                Chattanooga
                                             directly, and by September 9 Bragg, outflanked, was forced to
                                            evacuate the city. McPherson, Atlas of the Civil War,
                                            128-29. For a detailed description of the 72nd's significant role
                                            in the battle for 
                                                Chattanooga
                                            , see McGee, History of the 72d,
                                        143-54.
                           
                                     There was none hurt in our Company. The loss
                                    was over in the field. Company I had four killed, Co. F, 13 [wounded], three
                                    [killed] and Co. A, one [killed]. The last was Jo. Eitchkin of Delphi [Indiana].23 We come here last night, but we will move sometime today.
                        We are in good Spirits and expecting a big fight. We have been marching, picketing,
                                    or Skirmishing all the time except 5 days, since we left Decherd. This will account
                                    for my delay in writing. We have no news outside of this Department.
                        I will have to close as the Mail Carrier is waiting. Please write often as you can.
                                    Send me some stamps. Dont be uneasy. Hope the war will soon close. Weather is dry;
                                    corn is splendid. We are on 1/2 Rations.
                        
                                    Believe me your loving Son,
                                    William A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Colwell's Ferry, Tenn.
                           
                                    Saturday Eve,
                                    Sept. 26th ‘63
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        I will pen you a few lines to let you know that mid all the loss of life and limb
                                    that has been suffered here within ten days, I am still spared. It is horrible to
                                    think of the Revolting Scenes of the Battlefield after moving a distance of 180
                                    miles, almost without opposition, the Enemy apparently flying from us in dismay,
                                    when we was buoyed up by the prospect of a Speedy close to hostilities. Then it was
                                    that Bragg hurled an almost irresistible tide of armed men upon us, bearing us down
                                    before them, but not without obstinate Resistance. Rosancrans's Chief
                                    Command is in 
                                        Chattanooga
                                    . We are on the north side of the [Tennessee] River
                                    in our old position. We was in the Battle the first three days, Friday, Sat., and
                                    Sunday, but our losses were small. We had 4 killed and 17 wounded in our Re. Our
                                    Captain was wounded and is supposed to be in the hands of the Enemy. He is the only
                                    one injured in Comp. K. It was awful to see the various wonds that were inflicted.
                                    Some of the Regiments were almost anihilated. The 86th is said to be all killed,
                                    wounded, and taken. The Rebels have possession of the field, and it is not likely
                                    that the dead will ever be all buried. I might tell you many 
                              
                                 23 After his occupation of 
                                                Chattanooga
                                            , Rosecrans, even though his infantry corps were scattered
                                            widely over rough terrain, determined to pursue Bragg into the mountains of
                                            northern 
                                                Georgia
                                            . Far from beaten, the Army of the 
                                                Tennessee
                                             engaged the northern forces in a number of skirmishes from
                                            September 10-18. McPherson, Atlas of the Civil War,
                                            130-31. The engagement mentioned by Clark, against the forces of General
                                            Thomas M. Scott, indeed resulted in a number of losses in the 72nd, although
                                            not in Company K. According to the Indiana adjutant general, one officer and
                                            ten men were killed in the skirmish; two-including Captain William H.
                                            McMurtry—were from Company I, four from Comapany F, and
                                            one—Joseph Etskin of Delphi—from Company A. The
                                            regimental historian, in his account of the battle, lists eight killed.
                                            Terrell, Report of the Indiana Adjutant General, II, 673,
                                            VI, 163, 172-73, 177; McGee, History of the 72d,
                                        156-61.
                           
                                     things about the fight and of our losses, but
                                    it would be Contraband. But this I do know. Imagination cant make it worse than it
                                    is. I will quit making peace Prophecies. All the Bright prospects have Vanished.24
                        
                        I have received two letters from you and one from George since I have wrote, and I
                                    dont like to write when I cant write anything good. I saw the 4th Cav. last week.
                                    Miller, Smith Ewing, Lewis, and Mohler is the only boys that were along from the
                                    Ross. [Rossville] Delegation. John Bridget is sick at Stephenson [Stevenson,
                                    Alabama]. G. Siegfried is at 
                                        Nashville
                                     and Bill Williams at Bridgeport [
                                        Alabama
                                    ]. Alf Gaddis is captured.25
                        
                        After eating a hearty meal of 1/2 a cracker and a cup of coffee without Sugar for my
                                    Breakfast, I was surprised to see my old Chum Alex Simms. He had just arrived from
                                    Ind. and joined Co. D of the 72nd. He is full of Politics, but he is a green one. I
                                    wish I could see you and tell you some items that I dont want to trust to the mail.
                                    I dare not express my opinions on politics here, and I am not posted, but you know
                                    that if you take The Crescent.
                           26 I wish you
                                    would send it to me. We get so little Reading matter. There is a possibility that we
                                    will get back to 
                                        Nashville
                                    . If we do, I want you to come and see me. Please write soon and often.
                                    My respects to friends. Your affectionate Son,
                        
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                        I will send you some Sorghum Seed that growed way down in 
                                        Georgia
                                    . It was the prettiest Cane i ever saw.
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  24 Loosely pursuing what it believed to be an all-but-beaten southern army
                        through northern 
                            Georgia
                        , the Army of the Cumberland, on September 19, was engaged by Bragg's
                        reinforced Army of the 
                            Tennessee
                         at 
                            Chickamauga
                        . For two days northern and southern forces fought "the bloodiest battle of
                        the war in the Western Theater." Bragg inflicted just over 16,000 casualties on the
                        Union army and forced Rosecrans from the field back to 
                            Chattanooga
                        . In fact, only the determined stand of General George H. Thomas, whose troops
                        included the 72nd, prevented a rout of the Union army. The Confederates suffered almost 18,500
                        casualties and left 
                            Chattanooga
                         still firmly in the hands of demoralized but not yet decisively beaten Federal
                        forces. McPherson, Atlas of the Civil War, 132-33; John S. Bowman, ed., The Civil War Almanac (
                            New York
                        , 19821, 168-70. According to the Indiana adjutant general's report, the
                        72nd suffered "severe" losses at 
                            Chickamauga
                        , a conclusion supported by the regimental historian's account of the
                        battle. McGee also confirms that Captain Richard H. McIntire of Company K was wounded in the
                        thigh and sent to one of the hospitals in the area and that some of the hospitals were later
                        captured by the Confederates. Although no corroborating information has been located, it can be
                        assumed from subsequent Clark correspondence that McIntire was indeed captured, then paroled or
                        exchanged. The 86th was apparently not as decimated as Clark had heard. Terrell, Report of the Indiana Adjutant General, II, 673, III, 76-78; McGee, History of the 72d, 169-72.
               
                  25 James M. Miller, Smith Ewing, Peter W. Lewis, John C. Bridget, George
                        H. Siegfried, William H. Williams, and William A. Gaddis served in Company I, 4th Indiana
                        Cavalry. Terrell, Report of the Indiana Adjutant General, IV, 260-61.
               
                  26 Alexander W. Simms was mustered into Company D of the 72nd on September
                        10, 1863. Ibid., VI, 170. Clark refers to the 
                     Frankfort, Clinton
                        County
                  , Crescent.
               
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Murfreesboro, Tenn.
                           
                                    October 15th 1863
                                
                        Kind Parents,
                        After an unprecedented delay, I haste to pen a few lines to inform you that I still
                                    enjoy good health. You have doubtless heard of Wheeler's Raid on this point
                                    and of our Brigade being in hot pursuit. That is my only excuse for not writing. We
                                    left the Tenn. River on the 1st of this month. We skirmished
                                    with Wheeler's Rear Guard three days. Our loss was 1 wounded. One in
                                    Company K. His name is Cue. He was shot in the heel.27 We
                                    arrived here on the night of the 6th. The Brigade started on the next day, but as my
                                    horse had played out, I was left here as a dismounted man. There is 24 here out of
                                    the 72nd & 4 of them is from K.
                        We are comfortable situated with the exception of Reading and Writing material. My
                                    Knapsack is in the wagon, and I have nothing with me save what I have on my Back. I
                                    succeeded in getting some paper today, so I will take up my time in writing to my
                                    Friends. It has been so long since we received any mail, that I have almost forgot
                                    how to read writing. The last letter I received from you was dated Sept. 13th. (I
                                    believe.)
                        We have no good news to narrate. The Order of the day seems to be Defeat in Ga.
                                    & Retreat in 
                                        Virginia
                                    , and empty honors bestowed on an unauthorized Embassy from Russia, by
                                    the men that control our helm of State.28
                        
                        
                           
                              27 Between October 1 and 9, 1863, Confederate General
                                        Joseph Wheeler's cavalry conducted a series of raids in central 
                                            Tennessee
                                        , the purpose of which was to disrupt Rosecrans's extended
                                        communications and supply lines. Despite considerable losses Wheeler destroyed
                                        wagons and animals, captured and sacked a number of small towns, and harassed
                                        Union forces around 
                                            Chattanooga
                                         before withdrawing across the Tennessee River.
                                        Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 910-11. According to the
                                        Indiana adjutant general's report, the 72nd lost "a number in
                                        killed and wounded in these engagements, and the regimental history indicates
                                        that losses against Wheeler were even greater than those at 
                                            Chickamauga
                                        . Terrell, Report of the Indiana Adjutant General,
                                        II, 673; McGee, History of the 72d, 197-208. William J. Cue,
                                        from 
                                            Clinton County
                                        , served in Company K of the 72nd and was wounded during the
                                        campaign against Wheeler's forces. Terrell, Report of the
                                            Indiana Adjutant General, VI, 179; McGee, History of the 72d, 199.
                           
                              28 Clark obviously considered Chickamauga a Union defeat,
                                        and he had evidently heard that Meade in 
                                            Virginia
                                         was retreating toward 
                                            Washington
                                        , D.C., with Lee in pursuit. Such was the situation in the east on
                                        October 15. By October 18, however, Meade had made a stand, and Lee withdrew.
                                        Throughout most of November the Union army followed the southern forces back
                                        into 
                                            Virginia
                                        . Finally, the Confederates, in turn, fortified their position, and
                                        Meade's forces stalled. Neither side could gain an advantage in the
                                        eastern theater, and the armies went into winter quarters in December.
                                        McPherson, Atlas of the Civil War, 138-39. In considerable
                                        measure because of Secretary of State Seward's efforts,
                                        Russian-American relations were decidedly cordial during the Civil War. During
                                        1863 the Russian naval squadron had been lavishly entertained up and down the
                                        eastern coast of the 
                                            United States
                                        . In September, just days after Chickamauga, the Russian vessels had
                                        been welcomed into 
                                            New York
                                         harbor. Later, the squadron moved down to 
                                            Washington
                                        , D.C., where officers met the president and Cabinet. Although the
                                        specific event to which Clark refers is not known, his opinion of both the
                                        Russians and the administration in 
                                            Washington
                                        , D.C., is clear. John M. Taylor, William Henry Seward:
                                            Lincoln's Right Hand (
                                            New York
                                        , 19911, 221-22; 
                                            Van
                                         Deusen, William Henry Seward, 537-42.
                        
                        
                        I dont know how long we will stay here. We will stay untill ordered to our Brigade.
                                    We are expecting Orders every day. If I was certain of staying here, I would have
                                    you address me at this place instead of at the Regiment. But the future is veiled in
                                    so much uncertainty that you had better direct as before, and if we should be
                                    permanently detached for Garrison duty, I can get my mail from the Company nearly as
                                    soon as I can get there. We have drawn tents here and organized a company to report
                                    to the Post Commander for duty.
                        I have wrote enough for this time. Please write soon and often.
                        
                                    your Affectionate Son,
                                    William A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Rossville Ind.
                           
                                    Oct 23 1863
                                
                        Wm. A. Clark
                        Dear son,
                        This will, if you get it, inform you that we are all well, hoping this will find you
                                    in the enjoyment of the same blessing. We rec'd yours of Oct. 15 written at
                                    Murfreesborough, was glad to hear that you still retain good health. Do you ever
                                    think while you are in pursuit of the Rebels that the enemy of souls is in pursuit
                                    of all who are rebels to his kingdom, and while you strive with all your power to
                                    overtake and punish your enemies (which is all right), strive equally as hard to
                                    escape the wiles and strategpes of the enemy of souls. And the only way to do that
                                    is to serve and trust in the Lord and in his care. I commend you hoping you will
                                    ever remember you Mother's and Father's advise to abstain from all
                                    evil as much as in you lies. Read your testament. Obey its instructions. Obey your
                                    officers so that if you live to come home, you can come with honor.
                        Your Captain is at home in this County. He is a paroled prisoner.
                        The weather is very disagreeable here now, snow some two inches deep with the
                                    atmosphere below the freezing at 12 oclock A.M.
                        We have our winter apples gathered and cider pretty near all made. We have a new
                                    cider mill, cost 42$. George and self can gather the apples and make two
                                    bls. per day. Cider worth $2, per bl. apples .30. Our orchard was full
                                    this season.
                        We have no news of much importance to write. I will send you some scraps of news in
                                    this. I must quit for this time am in much of a hurry. Will send 1/2 of this 1/2
                                    sheet blank for you to answer on. No more but remain yours affectionately. Write as
                                    often as you can conveniently. Remember a mother's parting address.
                        
                                    D. C. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Maysville, 
                                    Alabama
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Nov. 16th [1863]
                                    Monday Morning
                                
                        Father & Mother & Brothers,
                        I take my seat and more to pen you a few lines to let you know that I am well. Health
                                    is good, weather cool, and roads muddy. I would have wrote yesterday, but I was
                                    detailed to guard a forage train. We went 15 miles south of here and loaded 34
                                    wagons with corn, wheat, potatoes, and hogs from the plantation of a Mr. Flem-ming.
                                    We returned at dark, quite a contrast with the way I would have spent the Sabbath in
                                    Indiana.
                        I joined the Regt. on the 10th Inst. and there was about a dozen lettahs for me. You
                                    was rather late in sending me the Election returns, as I get The
                                        Crescent weekly, through the kindness of John Barnes. The vote was
                                        capital.29 The Clinton Political Campaign makes quite an
                                    exposition of a big man's littleness. I could give you a sircumstance of
                                    political strategy, but I only Carey a gun, so I had better keep mum.
                        News is a scarce commodity. Burnsides' men is reported to be starving.30 Sherman's Corps passed here last week going to 
                                        Chattanooga
                                    .31 Meade's Army said to be moving.32 We are in the midst of Guerrillas. Two of our Boys have been
                                    taken by them, namely John Harbaugh and Allen weaks.33 We are 12
                                    miles east of Huntsville [
                                        Alabama
                                    ] on the R. Road, but we have to haul our Rations 15 miles. We get one
                                    mail every third day. Both of our Lieutenants have resigned, and it is likely that
                                    Geo. W. Brown will be 1st Lieut. We wont be allowed a 2nd Lieut. as our company is
                                    too small. We only have 42 men in the company. G. W. Brown is detailed to go 
                              
                                 29 Neither national nor state elections were held in
                                            Indiana in 1863. According to two county histories, the only election in 
                                                Clinton County
                                             was for the office of appraiser of real estate. City elections
                                            may have been held in either Rossville or 
                                                Frankfort
                                            . History of 
                                                    Clinton County
                                                
                                 , 360; Joseph Claybaugh, History of 
                                                    Clinton County
                                                , Indiana … (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1913), 138.
                              
                                 30 On September 2, 1863, Union General Ambrose
                                            Burnside occupied 
                                                Knoxville
                                            , the most important city in the eastern Tennessee
                                                mountains. Using the city as a base, he began to extend
                                            Federal control into the rest of the region. Early in November Bragg, then
                                            besieging Rosecrans in 
                                                Chattanooga
                                            , sent part of his army to oppose Burnside, who pulled back to
                                            the defenses in 
                                                Knoxville
                                            . Too few in number to mount a siege, the Confederates failed to
                                            regain the city in a frontal assault and pulled back into the mountains to
                                            await the spring. While the Union forces may have been on short rations, it
                                            is unlikely that Burnside's army was starving. McPherson, Atlas of the Civil War, 136.
                              
                                 31 In 
                                                Chattanooga
                                            , Rosecrans's only access to his supply base at
                                            Stevenson was a long wagon road across the mountains. Effectively besieged
                                            by Bragg, the Army of the Cumberland was itself in danger of starving. Given
                                            overall command in the 
                                                Chattanooga
                                             area, General Ulysses S. Grant replaced Rosecrans with Thomas
                                            and dispatched Sherman and Joseph Hooker to assist in breaking the siege.
                                                Ibid., 134.
                              
                                 32 See note 28 above.
                              
                                 33 John H. Harbaugh and Allen Weaks both served in
                                            Company K of the 72nd. Weaks had been mustered into the army in August,
                                            1863, thus had apparently just joined the regiment. Both men were mustered
                                            out with the regiment in June, 1865; therefore, if captured, the two escaped
                                            or were exchanged and rejoined the 72nd. Terrell, Report of the
                                                Indiana Adjutant General, VI, 179, VIII, 284.
                           
                                     home to recruit for K company, but the detail
                                    is not approved yet. I was detailed for that purpose at Deckard [Decherd] (but Dave
                                    Barnes was elected clerk since.)34
                        
                        I rec. a letter from Frank 
                                        Hamilton
                                     last night,35 also one from S. S. Erehart. We were
                                    paid off on the 12th, four month's pay, and our Bill of Clothing &
                                    Equipiage settled. We are allowed $42.00 per year. My bill was
                                    $56.50-$42.00=$14.50;
                                    $52.00-$14.50=$37.50. I only drew
                                    $37.50. The average draw of the Company was $35.72 per man,
                                    hence I was a little more saving than the average. I sent $25.00 to Mr.
                                    John Allen for you to dispose of as best you can. You will get it by going to him.
                        We have a Chaplain now, and a good man he is. His name is Dellameter, a new school
                                    Presbyterian. He has organised a church of all denominations. He has some 60
                                    members. He has also organised a singing Society of 40 of which I am one.36
                        
                        I have wrote all the specials, more than that would be useless. Please write often
                                    and tell them Brothers not to wait for me to write. They tell me you have bought 1/2
                                    of the Tracy place. Is it true? If true, how is it divided? I must close and bake
                                    some corn cake for dinner. To mother a receipt for cornbread: Two quarts of meal,
                                    not sifted; water enough to make a dough of the meal; put the dough in a warm
                                    skillet and leave it till dried through; serve it up on a clean shingle with coffee
                                    made in a rusty Iron Kettle. It spoils the Bread to salt or sweeten it, and it is
                                    not healthy to put cream or sugar in the coffee. Knives, forks, & spoons not
                                    to be used.
                        
                                    Yours,
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                        When you follow my receipt, please tell me the results.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              In Camp, near Maysville, Ala.,
                           
                                    Nov. 18th [1863]
                                
                        To all whom it may concern,
                        I am in the Sunny South, and in good health, hoping this will find you enjoying the
                                    same Blessing. I have but little news to write, but G. W. Brown is going home in the
                                    morning, and I thought it would be a good chance to send you all a letter.
                        
                           
                              34 The Indiana adjutant general's report lists
                                        1st Lieutenant James W. Davis and 2nd Lieutenant Carey M. Layne as resigning in
                                        January, 1864. It is probable that their resignations were tendered earlier and
                                        that official action was not taken until several months later. George W.
                                        Brown's commission as 1st lieutenant is dated January, 1864; his date
                                        of muster as 1st lieutenant was April, 1864. Such delays caused problems with
                                        pay and other matters as Clark notes later. Ibid., II, 671-72. 
                                            Brown
                                        , who was a doctor, served in the hospitals for much of his time
                                        with the 72nd. McGee, History of the 72d, 229-30; Tatum,
                                        "‘Please Send Stamps,"’ Part I, 93n.
                           
                              35 Frank Hamilton was probably Francis Hamilton, a 
                                            Clinton County
                                         resident near to Clark in age. History of 
                                                Clinton County
                                            , Indiana, 834-35.
                           
                              36 Isaac DeLaMater joined the 72nd as chaplain in
                                        September or October, 1863. Terrell, Report of the Indiana Adjutant
                                            General, II, 666. The most popular religious activity in camp was
                                        singing, which was encouraged by distribution of pocket-sized hymnals published
                                        by religious organizations especially for the army. William C. Davis, ed., The Image of War, 1861 1865; Vol. II, The Guns
                                            of'62; (
                                            Garden City
                                        , N.Y., 1982), 188-89.
                        
                        
                        I received a letter from you today dated the 7th of this month. I also received a
                                    package containing a pair of Socks, and a pair of Mittens, for all of which I am
                                    very thankful. Our Captain was wounded and taken to a Hospital, and the Hospital was
                                    capured in the night. He is a Brave man, but K Company has no other kind. I captured
                                    a Rebel's overcoat at McMinn Ville [
                                        Tennessee
                                    ], so I am all safe on that score.
                        I received 26 letters from you out of the 28, and I have wrote 37 to you. This being
                                    the thirty eighth.
                        I am at a loss to know how the draft is to be filled in Ross [Township], but the
                                    cabinet is about to offer $60 per month for recruits. Perhaps greenbacks
                                    will act as a Stimulus to men to Volunteer. These Recruits will be put into old
                                    Regiments. There will be no more Regiments formed.37 Is the
                                    Dunkards liable to the draft of not?38 I wasent aware that
                                    Oliver Smith was in the Army, but I have seen Richard several times. To write to him
                                    you will direct to 40th Regt. Ind. Vols. Company A, care of Capt.
                                    Comady's[?] Company, 
                                        Chattanooga
                                    .39 They are the City guards.
                        The Regiment went out on a Scout this A.M. for four days. I have no horse, so I am
                                    left in Camp and am reading a book called the Stories of
                                        waterloo.40 I also have the Jubilee
                                        Singing Book and do a little singing for pass time. Is George as much of a
                                    Singer as he was when I was at home or has he quit?
                        When Dr. Brown returns, you will favor me by send me some good paper &
                                    Envelops, if he is willing to bring them, and if any of the Boys are afraid of the
                                    draft or want to see the Elephant, just tell them to come this way.41 All [for] under 20 cents can see the show 
                              
                                 37 See note 20 above. For a discussion of the bounties
                                            paid to Civil War soldiers see Terrell, Indiana in the War of
                                                the Rebellion, 75-91.
                              
                                 38 Dunkards were members of one of the denominations;
                                                e.g., Church of the Brethren, deriving from an
                                            original German Baptist group that practices trine immersion, love feasts,
                                            simplicity of life, and avoidance of oaths, lawsuits, and military service.
                                            Under the original Conscription Act of March, 1863, conscientious objectors
                                            could avoid military service only by paying the three hundred dollar
                                            commutation fee available to all draftees. An amendment to this law later
                                            provided that members of religious denominations who declared that they were
                                            conscientiously opposed to bearing arms and who were prohibited from doing
                                            so by the articles of faith of their religion should be considered
                                            noncombatants. When drafted, they were to be assigned to duty in the
                                            hospitals or to the care of freedmen or should pay three hundred dollars for
                                            the benefit of sick and wounded soldiers. Terrell, Indiana in
                                                the War of the Rebellion, 60-61.
                              
                                 39 Richard W. Smith, whose residence is listed as
                                            Stockwell, 
                                                Tippecanoe County
                                            , served in Company A of the 40th Indiana Volunteer Infantry
                                            Regiment. Terrell, Report of the Indiana Adjutant General,
                                            V, 252.
                              
                                 40 A fictional account of the Battle of Waterloo in
                                            1815, Stories of Waterloo was written by William Hamilton
                                            Maxwell and published in 
                                                England
                                             probably as early as 1829. It was subsequently reprinted by
                                            various publishing houses in from one- to three-volume editions with
                                            different subtitles—and at least once with a different title.
                              
                                 41 The phrase "to see the elephant"
                                            means "to see all there is to see, to see the complete
                                            picture."
                           
                                     for three years or during. The easiest place in
                                    the Army is in Mounted Infantry. In infantry the victim must carry his clothes on
                                    his back, his ammunition on his belt, his rations swung to his shoulder, and a young
                                    cannon on his Shoulder. And Mounted Infantry has all these on his horse or in the
                                    wagon. We only have our gun to take care of, while Cavalry had his carbine,
                                    Revolver, and Sabre to carry.
                        Old Greely says that the war is fast winding to a close, that the Confederates are
                                    starving. I spose it must be true, The N. Y. Tribune never stories
                                    you know.42 Write soon and often, and believe me your
                                    affectionate Son,
                        
                                    Clark. W. A.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Huntsville, 
                                    Alabama
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Nov. 27th/63
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        I seat me down to write you a few lines to inform you that my health is good. You
                                    will excuse me for being brief, as it is nearly midnight. My excuse for writing at
                                    this untimely hour is that we are ordered to march at 4 in the morning, and I
                                    thought it best to pen you a few lines to keep you from being uneasy. I dont know
                                    where we will go to, but expect it is to 
                                        Chattanooga
                                    . The Rebs have been whiped there and are retreating, and I suppose we
                                    will follow them up. If so hard times is before us.43
                        
                        I must close as my light is done gone. Write often and dont be uneasy if you dont
                                    hear from me. We are all well. Good bye for this time.
                        
                                    your Son,
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Huntsville, Ala.
                           
                                    Dec. 12th [1863]
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        I take this opportunity to let you know that I am still enjoying good health and hope
                                    this will find you the same. I havent heard from you for some time. Why it is I can
                                    [can't] tell. You will excuse me if I make this very short for it is
                                    raining, and the tent leaks so that I cant find a place dry enough to write.
                        
                           
                              42 Editor and publisher of the 
                                            New York
                                        
                                        Tribune, Horace Greeley during the Civil War pursued an
                                        eccentric and somewhat inconsistent course that confused many of his readers and
                                        lost him and his newspaper considerable support. Foner and Garraty, Reader's Companion to American History, 472-73.
                           
                              43 Although part of his army had been dispatched to
                                        confront Burnside at 
                                            Knoxville
                                        , Bragg in late November, 1863, still occupied strategically strong
                                        positions on Lookout Mountain and Missionary Ridge
                                        overlooking 
                                            Chattanooga
                                        . Under Grant's orders, Thomas, reinforced by Sherman and
                                        Hooker, attacked the southern forces to break the siege. After major assaults by
                                        the northern army, Lookout Mountain fell on November 23;
                                        Missionary Ridge the following day. 
                                            Chattanooga
                                         had been irretrievably lost to the Confederacy. Bragg retreated
                                        toward Ringgold in northern 
                                            Georgia
                                        . The Army of the Cumberland pursued him briefly before ceasing
                                        operations for the winter. McPherson, Atlas of the Civil War,
                                        134; Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 141-47.
                        
                        
                        
                           PRIVATE JOHN MUNSON COMPANY F, 72ND INDIANA
                                            MOUNTED INFANTRY REGIMENT
                           
                           ONLY KNOWN PHOTOGRAPH
                                            TAKEN IN THE FIELD OF A MEMBER OF COLONEL JOHN T. WILDER'S LIGHTNING BRIGADE
                           
                           Courtesy C. Paul Loane, Cherry Hill, 
                                            New Jersey
                                        . Photograph by Rick Baumgartner.
                        
                        We havent had a Rollcall or drill since we left 
                                        Chattanooga
                                     till to day. We are ordered to drill two hours each day and have
                                    Tattoo, dinner, and Revalie roll calls. We are on duty every other day, Foraging. or
                                    picket. Camp guard has played out. Since we were transferred to Cavalry, our drill
                                    will be on horseback. We are the Second Cavalry Brigade in the second division,
                                    commanded by Brig. Gen. Crook. A. O. Miller commands our Brigade.44 We are likely to stay here this winter. If we do, and there is Furloughs
                                    granted, I will try to get one and visit home. That is the only prospect I have of
                                    getting home till my [time] I guess is out.
                        
                           
                              44 In late 1863 the 72nd was attached to the cavalry
                                        command in the 2nd Divivion of Sherman's army. Colonel Abram O. Miller
                                        of the 72nd had moved up to command the brigade; General George Crook commanded
                                        the division. Terrell, Report of the Indiana Adjutant General,
                                        II, 673: Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 209, 550-51.
                        
                        
                        
                           UNIDENTIFIED TROOPER FROM THE 72ND INDIANA VOLUNTEER
                                            MOUNTED INFANTRY REGIMENT
                           
                           NOTE SADDLE RING ADDED TO STOCK OF SPENCER RIFLE.
                           Courtly Blue Acorn Press.
                           Photograph by Rick Baumgartner
                        
                        
                        Health is good here. We have meeting three times a week, singing nearly every night.
                                    But we are not Botherd with the girls, like we use to was.45
                        
                        My paper is getting so damp that I cant write on it. Write often, and please send me
                                    10 days Rations of Stamps. No war news.
                        
                                    Good evening,
                                    Wm. A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Pulaski, Charles
                        County
                                 , Tenn.
                           
                                    Dec. 28th 1863
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        I once more grasp my pen to inform you health and whereabouts. We left Huntsville on
                                    the 24th and went to 
                                        Athens
                                     [
                                        Alabama
                                    ] (25 miles). On Christmas we went to Elkton [
                                        Tennessee
                                    ], 21 miles. On the 26th we came within 7 miles of this place. On the
                                    27th we came here. Yesterday we had Inspections to condemn our worn out Equipments,
                                    and today we are drawing new rig. And tomorrow we are ordered to march, but I dont
                                    know where we will go to.
                        We havent received any mail since we left Huntsville. My health is good. You may
                                    guess how I am when I tell you that I weigh 170 pounds. We are camped in a well
                                    improved County. It puts me in mind of old Clinton. There is so much Sugar and
                                    walnut timber. The weather is warm and damp. The streams are very full, so that it
                                    is dificult marching.
                        I havent heard any war news for sometime. I wish we would camp some place where we
                                    could get our Rations & mail regular. It is reported that we will go to 
                                        Columbia
                                     [
                                        Tennessee
                                    ] and turn over our wagons, and then report to Gen. Reynolds in 
                                        Texas
                                    .46 If we do, we will have hard times and no
                                    mistake.
                        I was at a Tea party in Huntsville the night before we left and had a pleasant time.
                                    Will Grissmer is well and has growed so much you wouldent know him. Jim Wakeland is
                                    well, so is Frank Gaskill. I received a letter from Billy Williams on the 23rd. He
                                    was in convalescent Camp at 
                                        Nashville
                                     [
                                        Tennessee
                                    ].47 He was in poor health 
                              
                                 45 Clark may, of course, have been referring to camp
                                            followers. It would not have been inconsistent with his sense of humor,
                                            however, for him to have referred in this way to the girls who undoubtedly
                                            participated in the singing societies at home before the war.
                              
                                 46 Following the 
                                                Chattanooga
                                             campaign, General Joseph J. Reynolds served in various command
                                            positions in the XIX corps of the Department of the Gulf. From late October,
                                            1863, to early January, 1864, his troops took part in operations along the 
                                                Texas
                                             coast. Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 364,
                                            694-95. Clark's company does not go to 
                                                Texas
                                             as rumored.
                              
                                 47 William Griesmar, Benjamin F. Gaskill, and James M.
                                            Wakeland, all of Rossville, served with Clark in Company K of the 72nd.
                                            William H. Williams was in Company I, 4th Indiana Cavalry. Terrell, Report of the Indiana Adjutant General, VI, 179-80, IV,
                                            260-61. Griesmar had originally been the drummer for the regiment. Tatum,
                                            "‘Please Send Stamps,"’ Part I,
                                        93.
                           
                                     But improving, and he expected to go to his
                                    Regt. in a few days. It is stationed a 
                                        Alexandria
                                    , Tenn.
                        I have no news to write, so I will close. Did you ever receive an illustrated muster
                                    roll of Comp. K. 72nd? I sent one to John Allen of 
                                        Frankfort
                                     for you. I sent you my Photograph by letter. Please let me know if you
                                    got either. Somebody stole my Saddle last night, and I am afraid I will have to pay
                                    for it. That will be $17.48 out of my pocket. Please write often and send
                                    me some Stamps. No more at present.
                        
                                    your son,
                                    Will. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Pulaski
                                 , Tenn.
                           
                                    Jan. 10 ‘64
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        This cold Evening finds me seated to pen you a few lines to inform you that I am
                                    still in good health. I rec. 7 letters by this morning's mail, being the
                                    first since I left Huntsville, one from George W. Clark of the 20th of Dec. It
                                    pleased me to know that he been so dilligent in his studies. I am in hopes that he
                                    will continue a good Boy, and become a good man. I received a letter from I. N.
                                        today.48 They are all well. It was dated the 5th.
                        There is no war news. Some think that Peace will be made in two or three months. All
                                    gass. The 17th Regt. has joined the Veterans and has gone home on a furlough. Our
                                    Recruits havent come yet, and I dont know when they will come.49
                                    It is chatted that when they come we will be furloughed home, but I fear it is a
                                    Humbug.
                        We have been under marching orders 7 times in the last two weeks. But they have been
                                    countermanded each time. We have had extremely cold weather since New
                                    Year's. Citizens say it is the coldest they have had for 30 years. There
                                    has been several Blacks frozen to death for the want of shelter. I am a subcriber to
                                    the Religious Telescope, published in 
                              Dayton, Ohio
                           . It is United Brethren. We are on 1/2 Rations. But we
                                    are going to get full rations tomorrow.
                        Will Grissmer is well and is a Better Boy than he was at home. Him and me Bunk
                                    together now, as Harbaugh is detailed to drive team. He has been my mate ever since
                                    we drew dog tents. Samuel Hays & Ira Parcel of the 123rd Ill. dined with me
                                    today on crackers and Coffee.
                        
                           
                              48 Isaac Newton Clark, William's older brother,
                                        lived in 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         and was a preacher.
                           
                              49 In an effort to encourage voluntary enlistments, the
                                        federal government in 1863 offered a bounty of $400 and a months
                                        furlough to all veterans in the field who would reenlist for three years.
                                        Beginning in October, 1863, bounties of $300 were offered to new
                                        recruits who would enlist in old regiments rather than forming new ones. Emma
                                        Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era, 1850-1880 (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1965), 136.
                        
                        
                        Night before last I stayed in the country with Rev. David Adams, a Baptist minister.
                                    I slept in a nice feather bed for the 1st time in 17 months. He has an accomplished
                                    Daughter, Maggie, and it is reported that she will become the wife of Lieut. Burnes
                                    Adjt., 72nd.
                        Write often. Send me some Stamps.
                        
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        No. 2 
                              Huntsville, Ala.,50
                              
                           
                                    January 18th/64,
                                    Tuesday Evening
                        
                        Kind Parents,
                        I have just received a letter from you dated the 4th & No. 1. I am glad to
                                    hear that you are in the enjoyment of good health. We arrived here almost a week
                                    since. But I delayed writing till I heard from you. I am in good health except a Bad
                                    cold. Health is very good here. Captain Mc.[Intire] come up last night and will
                                    start back in the morning. He is not yet exchanged. Our Recruits havent come yet,
                                    but we are looking for them in a few days.
                        I have no war news to write. The R. Road is not repaired this far yet. But we expect
                                    the cars in a few days. Col. Miller is in Command of our Division. It is the 2nd
                                    Cavalry Div. Col. Atkins of the 92nd Ill. commands the Brig." Lieut. Davis
                                    has resigned, and it is believed that George W. Brown will take his place.
                        We are under marching orders to start in the morning at 9 oclock for Triana [
                                        Alabama
                                    ], 17 mi. below here on the [Tennessee] River, so I
                                    thought I would write tonight. It is getting late, and I have to write by firelight,
                                    so you must excuse poor writing.
                        I wish you would send me a Couple of Calico Shirts, colored of course. You can send
                                    them by mail. The weather down here is so hot that woolen shirts is to
                                    uncomfortable.
                        I was at Baptist preaching last Sabbath and heard a good gospel Sermon. Mr. McDonald
                                    took me home with him after Church, and I had a good Dinner and a Social Chat with
                                    Miss Sarah Mc[Donald]. They are good folks but are Secesh.
                        It is getting late, and I must close. Please write soon & often.
                        Give me all the news. No more at present.
                        
                                    Your affectionate Son,
                                    William A. Clark
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                        Billy Grissmer is in good health.
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  50 Beginning in January, 1863, Clark numbered each of the letters that he
                        sent home; his parents numbered their letters to him. By doing so, as Clark put it,
                        "you can tell whether you get all or not." William A. Clark to David C. Clark,
                        December 21, 1862, in Tatum, "‘Please Send Stamps,"’
                        Part I, 106.
               
                  51 See notes 34 and 44 above. The 72nd was not officially assigned to the
                        3rd Brigade, 2nd Cavalry Division, until March, 1864, although, as Clark indicates, in actual
                        fact the transfer had been effected earlier. Miller was now in command of the division, and
                        Colonel Smith D. Atkins of the 92nd 
                            Illinois
                         commanded the brigade. Terrell, Report of the Indiana Adjutant
                        General, II, 673; Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 28.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        No. 3 
                              Huntsville, Ala.,
                           
                                    Jan. 31st 1864
                                    Sabbath Morning
                        
                        Dear Parents,
                        I once more attempt to address you on health, and general tenor of a
                                    soldier's letter. I have just received yours of the 21st & No. 2.
                                    Truly pleased to hear that you are all in enjoyment of good health. It found me well
                                    and in better spirits than I have been since I left Hoosier soil. The climate is so
                                    exhilarating, and the society is in unison with the society I hold dear in Indiana.
                                    After being subject to Despotic o—rs [officers] for 15 months, our
                                    discipline has been suddenly relaxed. We have also been frowned on by all the
                                    Citizen Population that we have been thrown in contact with untill we came here. It
                                    is but natural that being treated as Gentlemen, after being denounced so long as
                                    hirelings, that our more tender feelings should be touched. I shall never forget the
                                    unmerited kindness that I have received from Citizens of Huntsville. If we go to
                                    Church, we are earnestly invited to share with them, their household pews. If we
                                    happen to a Tea party, we are always invited to participate. I have never been to
                                    but one house that I was welcomed, and invited to make the second Call.
                        The most of our Regt. is escort to Gen. Smith and is reported to be at Nachez [
                                        Mississippi
                                    ]. There is some over a 100 of us here, commanded by Capt. Robinson. The
                                    98th Ill. is at 
                                        Charleston
                                     [
                                        Tennessee
                                    ], 200 miles above here on the [Tennessee] River.
                                    The 123rd is at 
                                        Mooresville
                                     [
                                        Alabama
                                    ], 30 miles below here. The 92nd is a Triana [
                                        Alabama
                                    ], 17 miles below, and the 17th is at home. Col. Miller commands the
                                    division. The 1st Brig. consisting of the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, & 4th 
                                        Ohio
                                     Cav. has all reenlisted. The two first have gone home. The rest are
                                    here. The 2nd Brig., consisting of the 4th Regulars, 5th 
                                        Iowa
                                    , 7th Pa., and the 4th Mich. is here, and Miller is commanding the
                                    entire command. We are the 3rd Brig. of [the Second] Cavalry.52
                        
                        Rev. Mr. Adams is a Peace man. He is opposed to the war on both sides. He is a smart
                                    man, (so is Maggie). Maj. Carr was commanding the Regt. at that time, and I got a
                                    pass for two days from him, and I went farther out in the Enemies’
                                    country than the Timid Shoulder Straps would venture.53
                        
                        My saddle is lost. But if Captain Mc.[Intire] comes to the Company, before the 1st
                                    Quarter reports, I can get him to certify that it was unservicable as it was an old
                                    saddle when I drew it. But if he dont come in two months, I will have to foot the
                                    bill.
                        
                           
                              52 During the winter of 1863-1864, various companies of
                                        the 72nd were on detached service. A number were with General William Sooy
                                        Smith, who was at the time chief of cavalry for the Union Army of the 
                                            Tennessee
                                        , Military District of 
                                            Mississippi
                                        . Company K remained in Huntsville, 
                                            Alabama
                                        , under the command of 
                                            Milton
                                         Stapp Robinson of the 75th Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment.
                                        Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 776, 705; McGee, History of the 72d, 243-88.
                           
                              53 "Timid Shoulder Straps" is probably
                                        Clark's term for officers. Clark refers to Major Henry M. Carr of the
                                        72nd. Terrell, Report of the Indiana Adjutant General, II,
                                        665.
                        
                        
                        It is strange that you havent received my Photograph, as I sent it on the 24th of
                                    December. I sent one to Alma 
                                        Jordan
                                     the same day, and I have received a letter from her acknowledging its
                                    receipt and containing her miniature. She is the best looking Cousin I have yet
                                    seen. If you dont get it by the 15 of February, I will send another. John Barnes
                                    will go home then and I can send by him. I had six taken, and they cost
                                    $4.
                        I dont like the tone of The Telescope. But it has some good reading
                                    matter in it, and reading is so scarce that it is quite a welcome messenger.
                        We went out on a scout last week. We was gone 5 days. We traveled 240 miles in that
                                    time and had a sharp skirmish. Our loss was 5 wounded, none killed. The
                                    enemies’ loss was 60 killed, wounded, & prisoners.
                        It is 10 oclock, and I want to go hear Dr. Ross preach at 11. He is a presbyterian. I
                                    will close for the present. Write oftener. I would like to hear from you once a week
                                    at least. Give my love to enquiring friends.
                        
                                    Good Morning,
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        No. 4 No. 4 [number added later] 
                              Camp of 72nd Ind. Vols., Huntsville, 
                                    Alabama
                                 
                              
                           
                                    February 7th 1864
                                    Sabbath P.M.,
                        
                        Dear Parents,
                        I grasp my pen to write you a few lines to inform you that I am still enjoying good
                                    helth, and I hope this will find you the same. The weather is cool and clear with
                                    some snow on the mountains. It seems strange to see snow within three [miles] of us,
                                    and the ground not frozen here. But nevertheless it is the case.
                        I have the Blues today. My Boots are so near worn out that I cant go out of camp, and
                                    camp is too dull to chear one all the time. Our Recruits have arrived, 24 in number.
                                    But they are not armed yet, and it will be sometime before they will be. Three of
                                    them have got measles. I am not acquainted with any of them, as they are all from
                                    the South part of Clinton. George Brown has been more successful than I had
                                    anticipated. We havent got any mail since the first of the past week, as the train
                                    run off the track and blocked it up. But we expect the train in today.
                        I met two old cronies the other day, downtown [Huntsville]. They were Joseph
                                    & Jim Aikens, formerly of Rossville. They now belong to the 17th 
                                        Iowa
                                     Regiment. Alexander Johns is here too. They are in good health and
                                    greatly surprised to meet me. They had just heard from Tom Goble and told me that
                                    Henry Smith was wounded and at home. It surprised me as you had rote nothing about
                                    it. Had Mohlers heard from Henry lately? I should like to hear from him.
                        
                        The cars have come in, so I will wait till the mail is distributed. Well the mail has
                                    come. But nothing for me, so I have the Blues yet. I will close for the present.
                                    Please write soon and often. I remain your affectionate Son,
                        
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        No. 5 
                              Huntsville, Ala.
                           
                                    Feb. 14th 1864,
                                    Sabbath Morning
                        
                        Dear Father & Mother,
                        I take my pen in hand to drop you a few lines to inform you how I am getting along.
                                    This is a rainy morning. It has been raining all night and is still raining. I am
                                    very unwell. On last Monday my horse fell with me, and hurt my back. My back is so
                                    stiff yet, that I cant turn in bed. I am getting better, and I hope to be all right
                                    in a few days. We are under marching orders. But no time specified to move. I am
                                    afraid they will move before I am able to rise. Is so, I will have to go to the
                                    Hospital, and I dont fancy the idea.
                        Our recruits have joined us at last, 24 in number, and some of them are fine men. But
                                    the majority of them are to young to stand the service. Old Jacob Culver has a son
                                    here. He is 17 year old, and there is a William C. Spaulding, that use to sing with
                                    you during Odoud's musical administration, and he is a splendid singer
                                        yet.54
                        
                        Both of our Lieutenants have resigned, and Jack Ball is in command of the company.35 The Paymaster is here now and paid all the Regt. two months
                                    pay, except Co. K. We wont get our pay for sometime yet. The reason we cant get our
                                    pay is because we have no commissioned officer to certify that the Pay Rolls is
                                    correct. It seems that this company is born to bad luck.
                        War news is scarce. It is reported by deserters that the Rebel Congress has passed a
                                    bill to emancipate all the slaves and families of slaves that will enlist in their
                                    Army. If true, it is a master stroke of Policy.56
                        
                        
                           
                              54 Edward Culver was mustered into service in January,
                                        1864, and was discharged in June of the same year. William C.
                                        Spaulding's muster date is given as December, 1863. He was later
                                        transferred to the 44th Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment. Terrell, Report of the Indiana Adjutant General, VI, 180.
                           
                              55 Jackson S. Ball was sergeant of Company K. Ibid., 179.
                           
                              56 By January, 1864, the military situation in the
                                        Confederacy was such that a number of division commanders in the Army of the 
                                            Tennessee
                                         proposed the recruitment of slaves who would be guaranteed their
                                        freedom in return for fighting for the South. The proposal resulted in so much
                                        dissension that President Jefferson Davis ordered all discussion of the matter
                                        to cease. By the end of 1864, however, Davis was openly admitting that arming
                                        the slaves might well be inevitable. Although, in February, 1865, General Robert
                                        E. Lee also supported the idea, the Confederate Congress and most southern
                                        states remained adamantly opposed. Not until March 13, 1865, was a law passed
                                        authorizing the requisition of a quota of black soldiers from each state but not
                                        mandating freedom for them. Since the war, in effect, ended on April 9, 1865,
                                        when Lee surrendered to Grant at 
                                            Appomattox
                                        . the law was too little, too late. McPherson, Battle
                                            Cry of Freedom, 831-36.
                        
                        
                        There is a Negro School here now. It has 400 pupils and 14 tutors, and to cap the
                                    climax, it is supported by Unkle. So you are taxed to degrade the Caucasian to an
                                    equality with these half Breed Darkies of Huntsville. There is twice as many slaves
                                    here as there is white people, and they are nearly all Mulattoes.57
                        
                        The death of cousin Jane Stabler was a great bereavement to her family. But she is
                                    doubtless saved from seeing a great deal of trouble. Is Luanne still single, and
                                    where is Mary? Do you know what Regiment Frank is in?
                        I would like to know who it is that raises a Row at West Point since the Clark Boys
                                    are off the stage.58 I supposed the Dunkards would have
                                    everything peacable.
                        William Grissmer is as fat as a pig. Him and [me] are bunking together now. I have
                                    wrote all the news. Please write soon and often.
                        
                                    W. A. Clark
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp on Pine Creek, Ala.
                           
                                    Feb. 21st ‘64,
                                    Sabbath Evening,
                                
                        Dear Parents,
                        I grasp my pen to write you a few lines to inform you that I am well once more and
                                    hope this will find you the same. It is late, and I will make this very short. I was
                                    waiting for the mail to come before I wrote, so the sun has set and no mail yet.
                        We left Huntsville on the 17th and arrived here on the 18th. We are thirty two miles
                                    below Huntsville on the Memphis R. Road. We have our Rations to haul 30 miles. But
                                    can get forage within 4 miles. The health is good. Weather pleasant and all quiet on
                                    the Potomac.
                        I received a letter from S. S. Erehart yesterday, also one from Nate Jacoby,
                                    informing me of the marriage of Mary Mohler. I spose I can serve the rest of the
                                    time contented, all my old flames have flashed.
                        We have the prettiest camp we have had since we listed in the army. It is in a dense
                                    Cypress woods, on the bank of a Beautiful 
                              
                                 57 Because the federal government had no official
                                            policy for dealing with former slaves who sought freedom and protection in
                                            areas occupied by northern armies, military commanders coped variously with
                                            the problems created by the fugitives who entered their lines. Funds to
                                            provide for care were acquired in numerous ways, but it is doubtful that the
                                            school described by Clark was supported by federal taxes. Some commanders
                                            appointed superintendents to oversee the blacks’ welfare, and
                                            private relief organizations soon appeared to provide supplies, supervision,
                                            and education. Patricia L. Faust, ed., Historical Times
                                                Illustrated Encyclopedia of the Civil War (
                                                New York
                                            , 19861, 161-62.
                              
                                 58 West Point was a district school located on the
                                            north side of section 1 in Ross Township, approximately two miles south of
                                            Rossville and probably adjacent to property owned by the Clarks. George
                                            Clark, and apparently others in the Clark family, attended this school,
                                            although it was not in their district. Joan C. Bohm, comp., 
                                    
                                                    Clinton County
                                                , Indiana: History and Genealogical (
                                                Frankfort
                                            , Ind., 1989), 319. See also Tatum, "‘Please
                                            Send Stamps,"’ Part I, 105.
                           
                                     Creek as large as Cripe's Run, etc. We
                                    have all got horses now. I have a fine little Roane horse. I have drawn a new
                                    saddle. But I guess I will have the other reported as lost in the Field. We drew
                                    full Rations today for the first since we left Murfreesboro. We drew, crackers,
                                    flour, pork, Beef, Beans, Rice, potatoes, coffee, tea, sugar, molasses, pepper,
                                    salt, candles, and soap.
                        News is scarce, as there is an edict against selling papers here. But Colonel Miller
                                    told me today that Colonel Straight and 100 of his companions had escaped from Libby
                                    Prison, and that most of them had arrived at City Point [
                                        Virginia
                                    ], quite important, if true.‘" He also said that
                                    Sherman's Army was in possession of Jackson, 
                                        Mississippi
                                    .60
                        
                        I received a letter from Alma, not long since. She was well and also the rest of the
                                    family. It is so dark I cant see to write. Please write oftener. I remain your son,
                        
                                    Allen
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        No. 7 
                              
                                 
                                    Mooresville
                                 , Madison County,
                              [
                                    Alabama
                                 ] In Camp
                           
                                    Feb. 28th 1864
                        
                        To all my friends at home,
                        Sunday morning, I am seated with my back to you. But me thinks I can see your faces
                                    as distinctly as though you was in my presence. I can imagine how matters are
                                    transpiring at home this morning. Sunday morning & raining. Breakfast is
                                    late, though a feast by the side of Soldier fare. Perhaps Allen's name is
                                    mentioned, how cheering the thought that I am not forgotten at home. Breakfast over.
                                    George upstairs singing or preparing to go to church, or perhaps hanging around
                                    Father to get permission to go to see some playmate. Mother is in the kitchen,
                                    putting everything in style in anticipation of visitors, and Father is the room
                                    reading the news or sleeping. My picture is complete although there is doubtless
                                    some guess work about it.
                        
                           
                              59 In order to suppress reports of troop movements and
                                        battles, certain generals attempted to bar newspapers and reporters from camps.
                                        Union Colonel Abel D. Streight of the 51st Indiana led raids against Confederate
                                        troops in 
                                            Tennessee
                                         and 
                                            Alabama
                                        . In 
                                            Alabama
                                         on May 3, 1863, he surrendered his mule-mounted volunteers to
                                        Nathan 
                                            Bedford
                                         Forrest's Confederate troops and was sent to Libby Prison
                                        in 
                                 Richmond, Virginia
                              . With over one
                                        hundred other prisoners, he tunneled his way out of Libby on February 9, 1864.
                                        The tunnel took all winter to dig. Two escaped prisoners drowned, forty-eight
                                        were recaptured, and fifty-nine, including Streight, escaped successfully.
                                        Streight later returned to active duty. Faust, Historical Times
                                            Illustrated Encyclopedia, 726-27.
                           
                              60 In February, 1864, Sherman, with most of the
                                        Confederate and Union armies in winter quarters, marched from Vicksburg toward
                                        Meridian, the most important city in 
                                            Mississippi
                                         still in Confederate hands. On February 5 Sherman's troops
                                        occupied Jackson for the third time in nine months; on February 14 they entered
                                        Meridian, the Confederates having evacuated the town in the face of superior
                                        forces. McPherson, Atlas of the Civil War, 146.
                        
                        
                        It is raining here this morning, not showers, but big drops that fall straight to the
                                    ground. The past week has been delightful weather, and the Contrabands have been
                                    busy planting corn and preparing the ground for King Cotton.61 I
                                    was out on forage duty twice during the week, and on picket once, and drilling
                                    Recruits twice a day. Between times we are jumping nearly all the time, and Allen is
                                    the best jumper in the 72nd Regt. Ind. Vols. But Black Bob, cook for Regimental
                                    Hdqrs., is the biggest hopper I ever saw. He can clear fifty two feet at 3 hops.
                        There is quite an excitement here now about smallpox. There is 73 cases of it in
                                    Huntsville. Col. A. O. Miller has ordered every man to be vaccinated. For my part I
                                    dont feel much afraid of it. At least I'm not as bad scared as I was at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , and if I was, I couldent get home as easy as I did then.
                        Will Grissmer and I is (which is a sight) Bunking together. We have a fine house, 7
                                    feet square, four feet hight at the sides, and 72 feet high at the comb. A nice
                                    bedsted made with clapboards, and a good floor, a fancy cupboard, and writing desk
                                    constitutes our household goods.
                        I received you welcome letter of the 15th just last night. It informed me of your
                                    continued good health, and that Jonas was going to move back onto the old hive. I
                                    hope it will be beneficial to all concerned. But it is a strange step, considering
                                    what has passed.
                        I have bought a pair of Boots from the Sutler for the Exhorbitant price of
                                    $12, also a pair of pants for $7. I couldent draw from the
                                    government because we had no Commissioned Officer here to make out our clothing
                                    list, and consequently I had my choice, either to freeze, or make the purchases of
                                    the Sutler.
                        I am trying to make a Conch Shell locket for Alma's picture, and if I get it
                                    made to my fancy, I will send you the picture in the locket. I have the picture in a
                                    Breastpin now.
                        Is that Mr. Knight the man that assisted Reverend Mr. Smith in the revival the time
                                    the Hollets' joined, or is it some other Knight?
                        There is lots of rumors afloat in regard to important war news. Sherman is reported
                                    to be within 30 miles of Mobile [
                                        Alabama
                                    ]. General Smith is at Selma [
                                        Alabama
                                    ] with the 2nd Cavalry Corps. There is 100 of our Regiment acting as his
                                    escort, and 150 of it is detached to the 2nd Indiana Cavalry. Tallahassee [
                                        Florida
                                    ] is said to be in our possession.62
                        
                        
                           
                              61 Contrabands were blacks who had escaped to or were
                                        brought into Union lines. Frequently they were hired out to farmers to harvest
                                        cotton or other crops. For a discussion of the policies that were developed to
                                        deal with the many escaped or freed slaves who sought sanctuary with the
                                        northern armies, see Faust, Historical Times Illustrated
                                            Encyclopedia, 161-62.
                           
                              62 Instructed to join Sherman at Meridian, 
                                            Mississippi
                                        , General William Sooy Smith marched south from 
                                            Memphis
                                         in January and early February. In part
                        
                        
                        General Palmer is in possession of Dalton [
                                        Georgia
                                    ]. Gen. Averill is reported to have cut the 
                                        Richmond
                                     & Milledgeville Rail Road at 
                                        Lynchburg
                                    , Va. Longstreet has been reinforced and is threatening 
                                        Knoxville
                                     again.63 Arkansas has organized a state government
                                    with Slavery Stench out. 
                                        Louisiana
                                     is about to follow the example.64 The railroad is
                                    in opperation to 
                                        Madison
                                     [
                                        Alabama
                                    ], 7 miles above here. The 
                                        Nashville
                                     Road is in opperation to 
                                        Decatur
                                     [
                                        Alabama
                                    ], 7 miles below here. So we have R. Road comnunications on both sides
                                    of us.
                        I believe I have wrote all the news, yes more than is true no Doubt. I will close for
                                    this time. Write often. My respect to enquiring friends. I have no stamps, and I
                                    would like to have a few if you will be kind enough to send them.
                        
                                    I remain your Affectionate Son,
                                    Allen
                                
                        P.S. Tell S. S. A. F. & J. D. that I am in the 72nd Regt. Co K. and in 
                                        Alabama
                                    .
                     
                  
               
                
            
               because of a number of serious skirmishes with Confederate General Nathan 
                            Bedford
                         Forrest's cavalry brigade, he had not arrived in Meridian by February 20.
                        Sherman, hearing nothing from Smith, who was hurrying back toward 
                            Memphis
                        , turned back to Vicksburg. No reference to the rumor concerning Tallahassee has
                        been found; however, on February 6 Union forces occupied 
                     Jacksonville, Florida
                  ,
                        without opposition. McPherson, Atlas of the Civil War, 146-47; Boatner, Civil War Dictionary, 543-44. For descriptions of the "indomitable
                        heroism" with which a detachment of the 72nd supported Smith in his aborted foray, see
                        McGee, History of the 72d, 270-83.
               
                  63 Having determined through a series of assaults that Confederate forces
                        were still strongly entrenched around Dalton, 
                            Georgia
                        , Union General John M. Palmer withdrew from the area on February 26, 1864.
                        Longstreet, whether or not he is besieging 
                            Knoxville
                        , does remain in eastern 
                            Tennessee
                         in force. Not until April does he return to 
                            Virginia
                         to join Lee for the Wilderness campaign. Boatner, Civil War
                        Dictionary, 220-21, 490-91. Clark refers to Union General William Woods Averell in
                        connection with the 
                            Richmond
                         and Milledgeville Railroad.
               
                  64 Beginning in January, 1864, pro-Unionists in 
                            Arkansas
                         held a Constitutional Convention, abolished slavery, inaugurated a pronorthern
                        provisional governor, and launched a working free state government, which might have been
                        acceptable for readmission to the Union under Lincoln's reconstruction plans. The 
                            United States
                         Congress, however, declared the new government unsatisfactory and refused to seat
                        its two senators. For the remainder of the war, 
                            Arkansas
                         had two civil governments. Not until June, 1868, was 
                            Arkansas
                         officially readmitted to the Union. In April, 
                            Louisiana
                         also created a pronorthern Constitution under which slavery was abolished. Although
                        Lincoln considered the state restored to the Union, both the state and federal governments
                        challenged the validity of its elections. Ultimately, 
                            Louisiana
                        , too, had to follow the congressional plan for reconstruction and was not
                        readmitted to the Union until June, 1868. James G. Randall and David Donald, The
                            Civil War and Reconstruction (2nd ed., 
                            Boston
                        , 1969), 553-54; Faust, Historical Times Illustrated Encyclopedia,
                        22, 449-50.
            
            
            APPENDIX
            List of Family Members
            
               
                  David C. Clark (b. 1804)
                  Father
               
               
                  Mary M. Slifer Clark (b. December 10, 1803)*
                  
                  Mother
               
               
                  Elizabeth Clark (b. April 27, 1827)
                  Sister
               
               
                  Augustus F. Clark, A. F. (b. December 28, 1828)
                  Brother
               
               
                  Stephen S. Clark, S. S. (b. December 2, 1831)
                  Brother
               
               
                  Mary Jane Ayres Clark
                  Sister-in-law
               
               
                  Isaac Newton Clark, Newton, I. N. (b. October 13, 1833)
                  Brother
               
               
                  Eliza Jane Clark Cade (b. August 29, 1835)
                  Sister
               
               
                  Sam Cade
                  Brother-in-law
               
               
                  Jonas D. Clark, J. D. (b. September 12, 1837)
                  Brother
               
               
                  Tilghman A. H. Clark
               
               
                  (b. July 12, 1840, died at 4 years)
                  Brother
               
               
                  David Austin Clark
               
               
                  (b. May 24, 1844, died at 14 months)
                  Twin brother
               
               
                  (William Allen Clark (b. May 24, 1844)
                  Brother
               
               
                  George W. Clark, Geo., G. W. (b. March 4, 1851)
                  Brother
               
               
                  Jonas P. Clark
                  Uncle
               
               
                  D. F. Clark
                  Uncle
               
               
                  Alma 
                                Jordan
                            
                  
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Jennie 
                                Jordan
                            
                  
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Andy Erehart
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Stephen Erehart
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Clark Rhodes
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Cosmas Rhodes
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Jane Stabler
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Luanne Stabler
                  Cousin
               
               
                  Mary Stabler
                  Cousin
               
            
            
               
                  * An alternate spelling of Clark's mother's
                        maiden name is Slipher. Slifer is, however, the spelling used in Clark's family
                    Bible.
            
         
         
         
            A Letter from the Front: Vicksburg, 1863
            
                    Edited by Erich L. Ewald
                    *
                
            The American Civil War consisted of a vast accumulation of small tragedies that forever left a mark
                    upon Hoosier families. Scarcely an Indiana city, town, or village remained unaffected by the endless
                    casualty reports that came flooding in from every quarter of the conflict. The young men who marched
                    off from those towns in the early days of the war to the accompaniment of waving flags and brass
                    bands could not realize fully the sacrifice that would be demanded of them. During the course of the
                    rebellion Hoosiers marched and fought literally from the Potomac to the Rio Grande. The countryside
                    separating the two great rivers is marked by graves bearing quiet testimony to the extent of their
                    sacrifice.
            Joseph B. Gossett was one of those soldiers. The Honey Creek (
                        Henry County
                    ) native was twenty-two years old when he enlisted in Company F of the Eighth Indiana
                    Volunteer Infantry Regiment.1 After a raucous, bell-ringing departure from 
                        New Castle
                    , Gossett and seventy-four additional 
                        Henry County
                     volunteers mustered in with the rest of the regiment in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The Eighth trained briefly and left for the front in time to distinguish itself at
                        Rich Mountain in western 
                        Virginia
                    .2
            
            
               
                  * Erich L. Ewald is a freelance writer with degrees in history
                        from Wittenberg University, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  , and Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana. He is senior labor relations representative for Delphi Interior and
                        Lighting Systems, General Motors, Anderson, Indiana. The author would like to thank Elvira Klise
                        of Markleville, Indiana, for permission to edit and publish Joseph B. Gossett's letter
                        and Mrs. Virginia (Fadely) Ruh of Anderson, Indiana, for the Fadely/Gossett genealogical
                        information cited below. Terrence J. Winschel, historian of the Vicksburg National Military
                        Park, is thanked for supplying several important pieces of information regarding Joseph Gossett
                        and the role of the Eighth Indiana in the siege.
               
                  1 Joseph B. Gossett was born February 12, 1839, to Jeremiah and Temperance
                        Deavers Gossett. Joseph's brother William also served in the Eighth Indiana. From a
                        genealogical sheet provided the author by Virginia (Fadely) Ruh, April 23, 1993. Honey Creek,
                        originally known as Warnock Station, is located in 
                            Henry County
                        's 
                            Fall Creek
                         Township. An undated, typewritten history of Honey Creek by an unnamed author is to
                        be found in the archives of the 
                            Middletown
                         Public Library, 
                            Middletown
                        , Indiana.
               
                  2 The Eighth represented one of six Indiana regiments raised in response
                        to President Abraham Lincoln's call for ninety-day volunteers immediately following the
                        attack on Fort Sumter. The contingent's departure from 
                            New Castle
                         was reported in the 
                            New Castle
                        
                        Courier, April 22, 1861. The account was reprinted in Herbert Heller, Historic 
                                Henry County
                            
                   (3 vols., 
                            New Castle
                        , Ind., 1982), II, 178-79. All general
               INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, XCI (September, 1995), © 1995, Trustees of Indiana
                        University. 
            
            
            The Eighth's original enlistment period expired immediately after the disaster at Bull Run
                    made it clear that the war would be much bigger than the authorities in both 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Richmond
                     had originally envisioned. In the wake of Bull Run and a similar catastrophe at
                    Wilson's Creek, 
                        Missouri
                    , the Eighth was reconstituted under many of its original officers and sent back to war
                    with a three-year enlistment period. Over the next eighteen months the regiment campaigned across
                    the rugged terrain of 
                        Missouri
                     and northern 
                        Arkansas
                    . Gossett had not immediately reenlisted when his original service period expired, but
                    he did rejoin the regiment a few weeks after the battle of Pea Ridge in northwestern 
                        Arkansas
                    .3 From 
                        Missouri
                     the Eighth eventually gravitated to Mil-liken's Bend, 
                        Louisiana
                    , in March, 1863, in time to participate in Ulysses S. Grant's justifiably
                    famous Vicksburg campaign.4
            
            From Milliken's Bend Grant's army marched down the west bank of the 
                        Mississippi
                     to a point some thirty meandering river miles below the Confederate citadel. As the
                    main body of the army moved south, Union cavalry raided into the interior of 
                        Mississippi
                    , effectively wreaking havoc and spreading confusion among the rebel defenders. While
                    the horsemen distracted the Confederate command, Grant's transports under the command of
                    Admiral David D. Porter, ran past Vicksburg in two cannon-thundering nights. The army linked up with
                    the transports and crossed to the east bank of the river at 
                  Bruinsburg, Mississippi
               ,
                    while William T. Sherman's corps demonstrated noisily against enemy installations at Grand
                        Gulf.5 As Sherman masked the crossing, the main army moved on to the
                    important road junction of Port Gibson. There, on May 1, the Federals defeated a considerable rebel
                    force in a hard, day-long fight. The Eighth was engaged heavily in the battle and received
                    commendations for its part in the action.6
            
            
               information concerning the Eighth's three-month combat record, unless otherwise
                        cited, is from [William H. H. Terrell], Report of the Adjutant General of
                        Indiana (8 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1866-1869), II, 16. The regiment's three-year service record can be found
                        in ibid., 55-56. See also Ann Turner, Guide to Indiana Civil War
                            Manuscripts (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 19651, 9-10.
               
                  3 Gossett's original service period ran from April 25 to August
                        6, 1861. He reenlisted, this time in Company E, on March 18, 1862. George Hazzard, Hazzard's History of 
                                Henry County
                            , Indiana, 1822-1906 (Military ed., 2 vols., 
                            New Castle
                        , Ind., 19061, I, 248, 264.
               
                  4 The Eighth Regiment was a part of William P. Benton's First
                        Brigade, Eugene A. Carr's Fourteenth Division, John A. McClernand's XIII
                        Corps. McClernand's report of the corps' operations from March 30 to June 17,
                        1863, can be found in U. S. War Department, The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation
                            of the Official Records of the Union and confederate Armies (128 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1880-1901), ser. 1, vol. XXIV, pp. 137-57. This work is hereafter cited as
                        Official Records. See also Terrell, Report of the Indiana Adjutant General,
                        II, 55-56.
               
                  5 All dates and general information concerning the Vicksburg campaign are
                        derived from a synopsis in Mark M. Boatner III, The Civil War Dictionary (Rev.
                        ed., 
                            New York
                        , 1988), 871-77.
               
                  6 Brigadier General George F. McGinnis said of the Eighth at Port Gibson,
                        "although they were short of ammunition, they went in with a will and rendered the
                    
            
            
            Grant then moved boldly into the interior of the state, his soldiers living off the land as they
                        went.7 Grant's only supply train on this rapid penetration
                    consisted of a ludicrous and eclectic collection of buggies, carts, and farmer's wagons
                    impressed for the occasion to carry ammunition. The army moved quickly, and the town of Raymond fell
                    after a heavy skirmish on May 12. Grant occupied the state capital, Jackson, two days later, driving
                    the Confederate forces under General Joseph E. Johnston out of the city and the entire campaign
                    while Sherman's men gleefully put the torch to the extensive munitions facilities located
                    there.
            The Confederates were thoroughly confused by Grant's unorthodox movements, and the fog of
                    war descended upon the Vicksburg garrison and its commander, General John C. Pemberton. With the
                    vague intention of severing Grant's nonexistent supply lines that, the Confederates
                    presumed, led back to the 
                        Mississippi
                    , Pemberton marched out from the city's fortifications to confront the
                    Federals. As Pemberton moved out, Grant held Johnston at bay with Sherman's corps and
                    turned west with the remainder of the army in Vicksburg's direction.
            On May 16 the opponents collided almost exactly midway between Vicksburg and Jackson on the
                    canebrake-infested slopes of Champion's Hill. The ensuing battle, in which the Eighth
                    Indiana played mostly a supporting role, was one of the most decisive Union victories of the war.
                    Grant virtually destroyed Pemberton. Broken and separated, the rebel units retreated in headlong
                    flight back toward the Vicksburg entrenchments. Grant caught up with them the next day and beat them
                    soundly at the Big Black River bridge. The Eighth Indiana was in the forefront
                    of this fight, a victory that resulted in the capture of about two thousand rebels and many
                    artillery pieces.
            Grant crossed the Big Black the next morning and on May 19 assaulted rebel fortifications that
                    honeycombed Vicksburg's imposing bluffs. The Federal attack was easily blunted, and
                    Grant's losses were considerable. In a second try, on May 22, the Federals hurled
                    themselves against the rebel works in a loosely coordinated end-to-end assault. The
                    Eighth's assignment was particularly tough as the Hoosiers moved down the Vicksburg-Jackson
                    railroad against a lunette occupied by the Second 
                        Texas
                     Infantry. The Eighth and the brigade to which it belonged achieved some small, initial
                    success 
                  necessary relief, and fought gloriously and victoriously during the remainder of the
                            engagement." Official Records, ser. 1, vol. XXIV, part I, p. 607.
                  
                     7 "I must tell you something about our march through the
                            Suney South it's some of the prettiest countrys that I ever saw and I tell you that
                            we lived prety well while on the march we had plenty of molases sugar corn meal smoked meat
                            fresh Beef pork and mutting and also plenty of fowls We [im]pressed evry thing that would
                            not take the oath of allegiance," wrote 
                                Jasper
                             Huffman of the 34th Indiana to his brother on May 31, 1863. Huffman's
                            letter was made available through the courtesy of Harold Anderson of Anderson, Indiana. See
                            also Erich Ewald, "Private Huffman, Visions of the Mud Creek Girls, and War in the
                            Southern Confederacy," 
                        
                                    Madison County
                                 Monthly, III (March, 19931, 39.
               
                     but were quickly pinned down by a withering fire from the rebel
                    works. The regiment managed to extricate itself under the cover of darkness, leaving behind 117
                    killed and wounded.8
            
            Reeling from 3,200 casualties, Grant concluded reluctantly to conduct a formal siege. During the
                    investment that followed, Federal entrenchments and parallels arose around the city with
                    ever-increasing complexity and sophistication. The Eighth held the line directly across the way from
                    the Second 
                        Texas
                     lunette, and the next few weeks were marked by sniping and bombardment by day and
                    illicit barter with the enemy at night.9
            
            Joseph B. Gossett had survived all this and, two weeks after the tragic assault of May 22, wrote home:
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Near Vicksburg Miss
                           
                                    June 6th 186310
                           
                                
                        Dear uncle, I seat myself this fine evening to drop you a few lines to let you know
                                    that I am still alive and in Reasonable Health at this time hoping that this letter
                                    may Find you and your family well. we have ben seeing some pretty hard times here
                                    for some time past and expect to see more then we have seen Before we are through
                                    fighting Here. I Have already wrote to you concerning the Battles off Port Gibson.
                                    since that time I have ben in or under the fire of three other Battles, one at
                                    Edwards Depot [Champion's Hill], Black
                                    River, and in the rear of Vicksburg and I will just say that I am geting
                                    a little tired of the sport. we have lost a great many men since we crossed the
                                    River, Both in Battle and by sickness. we are fortifying around the rebels and if we
                                    can't Whip them we will starve them. our cannon are playing on their forts
                                    day and night and our sharp shooters picks one of them from off their forts once in
                                    a while. 
                              
                                 8 An excellent eyewitness account by Charles Wilcox of
                                            the 33rd 
                                                Illinois
                                             (another regiment in 
                                                Benton
                                            's Brigade) is reprinted in Henry Steele Commager, The Blue and the Gray (One vol. ed., 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 19501, 655-56. The Eighth's movements and casualties
                                            in the May 22 attack are reported in Henry C. Adams, Jr., comp., Indiana at Vicksburg (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 19101, 203. A "lunette" is an entrenchment
                                            with two projecting faces and two parallel flanks.
                              
                                 9 "During the siege, and especially the
                                            latter part of it, there was a kind of mutual understanding between the
                                            pickets of the two forces that there should be no firing at each other after
                                            dark, and a general conversation was kept up by the men on picket duty and a
                                            good deal of trading done. The rebels were short of coffee and had tobacco,
                                            and this suited the men of our army." Adams, Indiana
                                                at Vicksburg, 204.
                              
                                 10 Joseph B. Gossett's letter is addressed to
                                            Henry and Elizabeth (Gossett) Fadely of Honey Creek. For biographical
                                            information on the Fadely family, see 
                                                Virginia
                                             (Fadely) Ruh, comp., A Fadely Family History and
                                                Genealogy (n.p., 1982), 157-58. Alice and Joseph, mentioned in the
                                            letter, were two of Henry and Elizabeth's thirteen children. For a
                                            biographical sketch of Henry Fadely, see also History of 
                                                    Henry County
                                                , Indiana (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 18841, 590-91. In order to produce the most authentic
                                            reproduction, Gossett's letter is presented here essentially as
                                            written, with grammar and spelling uncorrected by the editor.
                                            Capitalization, too, remains as in Gossett's original, although
                                            editorial decisions as to capital or lower case "s" and
                                            "c" were sometimes arbitrary. Punctuation was supplied to
                                            facilitate reading as most of Gossett's original punctuation marks
                                            have faded from the manuscript.
                           
                                     I think they will hoist the white flag Before
                                    long or else come out and fight us fair and square and if they do that they will get
                                    one of the worst whipings That they have ever had since Jeff Davis has ben president
                                    of the Confederate States +++ But I must stop gassing for maybe they might whip us
                                    and then I would feel bad +++ I have seen Chris Fiffer several times since I have
                                    ben down here. he is well and appears to be satisfied.11 I would
                                    like to Be at home this summer and if I live till Vicksburg is taken I am coming
                                    home. I am willing to serve my country But I am not willing to stay away from
                                    friends and home allways therefore you may look for me this fall if I live. So fix a
                                    good dinner for a good dinner is something I aint had for fourteen months now. I
                                    have wrote a great many letters in the last day or two to your neighborhood and as
                                    it would be useless for me to write the same things over again I will have to close
                                    soon. Tell Alice and Joseph that I have not forgot them yet. give my respects to all
                                    the friends. tell Uncle Asa Gossett that I have sent word to Charley Cummins to get
                                    my Horse on pasture some place and get him in order so that he will sell. I have
                                    heard that he is worked verry hard and gets But little feed and I dont like that a
                                    bit. if I have a Horse I want him to be a horse. now I will Bid you goodby hoping
                                    that you will not forget me and you must excuse me for not writing oftner for I have
                                    ten letters to write to where those at home have narry one. Beside, I have a poor
                                    chance to write, goodby Remember me and write soon. Tell me all the news. from
                                    Joseph B. Gossett To Henry and Elizabeth Fadely
                        Just excuse me for not filling this sheet for I have not time. But when you write to
                                    me just write the same amount and I will be satisfied.
                        
                                    JBG
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            Joseph Gossett would not live to see home again. He was killed ten days after writing this letter and
                    is interred in Section G of the Vicksburg National Cemetery, Grave Number 4809.12 His death contributed to the vast accumulation of small tragedies that was the American
                    Civil War.
            
               
                  11 Gossett was undoubtedly referring to Christopher S. Fifer, a resident
                        of 
                            Middletown
                         serving in Company H, 69th Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment. Terrell, Report of the Indiana Adjutant General, VI, 113.
               
                  12 The Indiana adjutant general's report incorrectly lists
                        Gossett's death as June 6, 1863, the same date on which the above letter was written.
                            Ibid., IV, 119. The date of death on record at the Vicksburg National
                        Cemetery is June 16, as verified by park historian Terrence J. Winschel in a letter to the
                        editor dated April 15, 1993. Details concerning the manner in which Gossett was killed are
                        unavailable. Nearly three weeks after Gossett's death, the Confederate garrison at
                        Vicksburg capitulated.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana Archives Indiana since 1945
            
                    John M. Glen, Robert Horton, Alexandra S. Gressitt, Wilma L. Gibbs, and Stephen G.
                        McShane
                    *
                
            [Editor's Note. With this issue we introduce a new feature to our readers.
                    It is our hope that this section, which aims to describe various archival holdings throughout
                    Indiana, will appear once a year in the September issue. Each article will focus on one particular
                    interest. Next year we hope to tackle the potentially much larger topic of the Civil War. We welcome
                    comments from our readers.]
            Fifty years after the end of World War II, the history of Indiana since 1945 remains the least
                    explored era of the state's past. Whether because of nostalgia, the political ramifications
                    of potential subjects, or a reluctance to confront those who are not safely dead, articles and books
                    on Indiana habitually end their coverage with the end of the Second World War.
            Fortunately, Indiana archives contain materials that reveal not only the fascinating, complex, and
                    uneven changes that have combined to make the state more like the rest of modern America but also
                    the determination of some residents to preserve values and institutions that are believed to give
                    Indiana its distinctive identity. These manuscript collections, oral histories, photographs,
                    statistical databases, and other holdings offer a rich record of where Indianans have lived since
                    1945 and what they have done for a living. Included, too, are their responses to government
                    intervention and regulation and their concerns about such public issues as race relations,
                    environmentalism, education, gender roles, and the health of both industry and organized labor.
            These records also point to several potentially rewarding areas of research into Indiana's
                    recent past. State residents reacted with uncertainty to the emergence of new trends during and
                    after World War II, their apprehensions expressed most spectacularly in the 
                  
                     * John M. Glen, general editor of the new Indiana Archives
                            series, is professor of history, Ball State University, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana. Contributors to this first installment of the series are Robert
                            Horton, research archivist, Indiana State Archives, Indiana Commission on Public Records;
                            Alexandra S. Gressitt, curator of manuscripts and archives, Indiana Historical Society
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; Wilma L. Gibbs, Black History Program archivist, Indiana Historical Society;
                            and Stephen G. McShane, archivist/curator, Calumet Regional Archives, Indiana University
                            Northwest, Gary.
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, XCI (September, 1995). © 1995, Trustees of Indiana
                            University.
               
                     General Assembly's 1947 antifederal aid resolution and
                    its 1951 "revolt’) over whether there should be public disclosure of welfare
                    recipients. Other topics include the impact of veterans on the economy, education, and family life;
                    the extension of civil rights and school desegregation issues to Indiana; the battle over daylight
                    savings time; the beginning of the Save the Dunes campaign; and, perhaps as a result of the
                    commitment of governors to the proposition that local problems can best be solved by local
                    government, a reluctance to fund large-scale public works projects.
            Indiana during the 1950s was dominated not simply by the Republican party but also by an ideological
                    conservatism that generated as much internal conflict as it did discord between the state and the
                    federal government. On the one hand, the era was marked by the passage of a right-to-work law, the
                    only one in a northern industrial state; opposition to a Republican president's interstate
                    highway program; a short-lived anticommunist campaign; public policies maintained by an artificially
                    rural state legislature; and a state basketball championship won by all-white, small-town Milan High
                    School. On the other hand, a dwindling state surplus prompted tax reforms; a Lake
                    Michigan port site was purchased; several large, occasionally violent labor strikes
                    erupted, and 7,000 union members marched on the State House to protest right-to-work; school
                    consolidation grew, as did the interstate highway program and state government generally; the number
                    of women in the Indiana work force continued to increase; and a widening rift between what Indiana
                    was becoming and what its political leaders wanted it to remain resulted in the election in the late
                    1950s of the largest number of Democrats to state and congressional offices in a decade. Milan High
                    may continue to capture the Hoosier imagination, but the dominant basketball teams of the 1950s came
                    from the big-city, all-black Crispus Attucks High School.
            The wave of changes that took place during the 1960s and early 1970s resulted from more than the
                    election of Matthew E. Welsh, often dubbed Indiana's first "modern"
                    governor, and the reform spirit generated by the New Frontier and Great Society. Federal courts
                    forced reapportionment, which in turn led to a more urbanized General Assembly that at least
                    temporarily resolved the dispute over uniform time, repealed the poll tax and right-to-work law, and
                    established equal opportunity in housing and education. African Americans such as Gary Mayor Richard
                    G. Hatcher represented the growing political clout of Indiana blacks. College students forced the
                    repeal of old university rules, organized protests first over hefty tuition hikes and later over
                    larger issues, and fashioned a relatively durable counterculture. Women secured such legal gains as
                    an equal pay act and pushed for ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA). 
                        Indianapolis
                     Mayor Richard G. Lugar represented a (‘new Republicanism" that
                    sought governmental reform, federal aid, and new economic opportunities.
            
            For the rest of the 1970s and early 1980s Indianans sought to consolidate the changes that had
                    occurred and to establish a new equilibrium in public affairs. Otis R. Bowen personified at least
                    part of that search—a family doctor who as governor initiated far-reaching tax reform,
                    oversaw the completion of the federal highway program, and pushed for a greater state share of the
                    national GOPs "New Federalism." Elsewhere the balance was shakier. 
                        Indianapolis
                     struggled to adapt to court-ordered busing. The General Assembly ratified the ERA, then
                    rescinded its decision. Environmentalists and others kept nuclear power plants out of the state, but
                    air and water pollution persisted. And the Indiana economy was not only beleaguered by three
                    recessions between the mid-1970s and early 1980s but also by a long-term structural decline in
                    manufacturing that contributed to a post-World War II unemployment high of 14 percent in 1982.
            Indiana's most recent history continues to present a mixed picture. Public and private
                    interests have made strenuous efforts to redirect the state's economy, endeavors that are
                    exemplified by Indianapolis's campaign to become a sports and entertainment center. Yet
                    Gary's Genesis Plan for urban revitalization collapsed, the decline of family farming
                    reached crisis proportions in the 1980s, and problems first addressed in the 1960s remained
                    unresolved. Indianans thus continue to be engaged in a process that has faced residents for five
                    decades: the reconciliation of modernity with emotions and traditions that influence memories and
                    perceptions of Indiana.
            The following essays highlight the most promising kinds of archival materials available to those
                    interested in studying Indiana's history since 1945. Robert Horton discusses the particular
                    intellectual equipment one needs when using state government records at the Indiana State Archives.
                    In complementary contributions on relevant resources at the Indiana Historical Society, Alexandra S.
                    Gressitt surveys collections that reflect changes in the economy, religious life, politics, and
                    status of women in postwar Indiana, while Wilma L. Gibbs identifies specific holdings that document
                    the efforts of African Americans in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and elsewhere to build community autonomy and achieve civic equality. Stephen G.
                    McShane describes several ways of studying the multiethnic, multifaceted, and tumultuous history of
                    northwest Indiana at the Calumet Regional Archives, located at Indiana University Northwest in Gary.
            Together these archivists demonstrate how the study of Indiana's recent past can finally
                    begin in earnest. Future articles in the Archives Section will focus on other eras and subjects and
                    will also be designed to encourage further research and writing on Indiana and midwestern history.
            
            INDIANA STATE ARCHIVES
            One of the notable themes in the history of post-World War II Indiana is the explosive growth of
                    Indiana government, one consequence of which is the corresponding growth in government records as
                    agencies are created, expand in size, and encompass greater responsibilities. Office technology has
                    compounded that growth by introducing computers, photocopiers, word processors, laser printers, and
                    electronic mail, all making the generation of records simpler and faster.
            For the archivist and the researcher the results are daunting: there are enormous amounts of material
                    to analyze and process. At the Indiana State Archives the response has been to develop, at the
                    agency level, a records management scheme to determine what should be destroyed and what should be
                    permanently preserved. Accordingly, most agencies in state government have for each discrete set of
                    records a retention schedule that describes the material and outlines its
                        "fate."1 Researchers should be aware of these schedules,
                    as records may be destined for a journey of fifteen years or more before they reach either the
                    Archives or the shredder. That span represents a considerable portion of the postwar period.
            Ideally, the retention schedule system allows researchers to determine the location of any record at
                    any point during its "life cycle." Archivists and researchers, however, need to be
                    aware of the ways in which governmental considerations (such as the status and development of
                    agencies) and technological considerations (such as the advent of electronic media) affect the
                    preservation of government records. Certain agencies, such as the Lottery Commission, are exempted
                    entirely from the records management scheme. In addition, those parts of state government enjoying a
                    relatively privileged status can control their own documentary history. The principal objects of
                    interest here are the General Assembly and the Governor's Office.
            Historically, the General Assembly has produced a paucity of records. No equivalent of the Congressional Record exists; thus, there are no texts of floor debates or
                    committee deliberations. The Assembly's only publications, the House and Senate journals,
                    note only the progress of a bill through the legislature. From these sources it is extremely
                    difficult to discern anything like legislative intent.
            
               
                  1 In Indiana the process began in 1978 with the formation of the Indiana
                        Commission on Public Records (ICPR), the parent agency of the Indiana State Archives. The
                        records management division, in cooperation with the agency involved, develops the retention
                        schedules. In the years since 1978 many, but not all, agencies in state government have been
                        scheduled. The ICPR's retention schedule database is now available on-line at the State
                        Archives’ World Wide Web site.
            
            
            One way around this impasse is the use of reports coming from the Legislative Services Agency. The
                    General Assembly routinely establishes standing and interim study committees that meet between
                    sessions to research and recommend policy on a variety of topics, Recent concerns addressed by
                    committees include the lack of secure storage space in the State Archives, workplace safety,
                    education, and the problems faced by black males. Because of the need to account to the full
                    Assembly, the committees generate a variety of records; at the very least they produce a final
                    report but sometimes, as well, transcripts of testimony or minutes of meetings.
            Like the General Assembly, the Governor's Office is not considered subject to the public
                    records law. Although most postwar governors do have records at the Archives, the materials therein
                    do not necessarily constitute a full history of the various administrations. Roger D.
                    Branigin's official papers, for example, are largely at 
                        Franklin
                     College. Personal papers, a category sometimes, one suspects, generously construed, are
                    never brought to the Archives. When Robert D. Orr left office, his staff left eight years of records
                    in dumpsters behind the State House; fortunately, the Archives’ staff staged a rescue
                    which brought hundreds of cubic feet of material to safety. It seems, though, that before being
                    dumped the files were sanitized; post-Watergate, it can be assumed that such a procedure is and will
                    be increasingly routine.2
            
            Nonetheless, governors' papers are the single most important source to research for two
                    reasons: (1) the office's involvement in all aspects of government generally guarantees
                    some mention of a public issue; and (2) the Archives has produced useful finding aids that greatly
                    facilitate access to the collections. Despite their drawbacks the Governors' Papers remain
                    the necessary starting point for research in postwar records.
            The attraction of records originating in the General Assembly and the Governor's Office
                    lies, of course, in their catholicity. Agency records, on the other hand, are less appealing because
                    of their irregularity, the foremost cause of which is the mutability of things: especially since
                    1945 state government has suffered continuing consolidation and fragmentation as it forms and
                    re-forms itself in response to social changes and demands. Understanding this flux is critical
                    because, as the principle of respect des fonds governs the archival treatment of
                    records, all documents are kept in the order in which they are received at the Archives. They are
                    not rearranged or reclassified. Researchers, accordingly, have to determine who created the records
                    in order to find them, a process that is rarely simple.
            
               
                  2 Former 
                            New York
                         Governor Mario Cuomo's "clean-up" even shocked the 
                            New York
                        
                        Post. See its front page article, "The Shreds of Evidence: Cuomo
                        aides destroy tens of thousands of state documents," November 15, 1994.
            
            
            One of the most important developments in postwar history, for example, has been the increased
                    concern for the environment. Within state government all of the following agencies have missions in
                    some way related to the topic: the Department of Natural Resources, formed in 1965, principally
                    incorporating the old Department of Conservation; the Department of Environmental Management (IDEM),
                    formed in 1985 from portions of several agencies; the Utility Regulatory Commission, before 1988 the
                    Public Service Commission; the Utility Consumer Council, formed in 1981; the Pesticide Review Board,
                    1971; the Hazardous Waste Facility Site Approval Authority, 1981; the Ohio River
                    Valley Sanitation Commission, 1939. Then, despite the all-encompassing concerns of these
                    agencies, there are anomalies such as the Department of Health's special report on the
                    Marble Hill nuclear plant, six cubic feet of records relating to a critical decision about
                    Indiana's environment.
            Untangling these knots is just the first phase of any researcher's project. Once a
                    particular thread is identified, there remains the task of tracing the variety of documents that
                    every agency produces. One possible impediment is confidentiality: all agencies produce some records
                    that are deemed confidential, either permanently, such as adoption records, or for seventy-five
                    years, such as hospital records. Other government records can be broadly categorized as minutes,
                    financial records, correspondence, publications, and administrative materials.
            Minutes are deemed critical records, thus are scheduled to be preserved completely and permanently at
                    the Archives. Their value to the researcher lies in their overview of an agency's mission
                    and in their account of all significant decisions. Financial records are copiously generated in the
                    normal course of business but are not destined for long-term retention except in compiled formats.
                    The routine is to keep these records only long enough for the State Board of Accounts to complete an
                    audit and to satisfy any particular statutory obligation.7 Correspondence is
                    scheduled according to content. The retention period for "general" correspondence
                    is three years in-house and then disposal. "Policy" correspondence, on the other
                    hand, is transferred to the Archives after three years for evaluation. Publications are not normally
                    sent to the Archives; under a longstanding division of labor, the Indiana Division of the State
                    Library assumes responsibility for printed materials.
            Retention schedules for administrative materials reflect a number of considerations. From the
                    perspective of the agency producing the records, the foremost concerns are statutory obligations and
                    the 
                  
                     3 For example, under GRACC-1, the retention schedule for general
                            accounting records, records are held at the State Records Center for fifteen years after
                            completion of the State Board of Accounts audit and then destroyed.
               
                     economics of storage. Consequently, preservation becomes the
                    focus of a "risk analysis," which determines the perfect balance of safety and
                    frugality but which changes over time. Environmental records, for example, have become increasingly
                    significant. As a result, IDEM is now exploring the use of imaging, a very expensive but potentially
                    much more secure and flexible alternative to paper. Other agencies, too, plan the transition to
                    electronic records, a course that would revolutionize record keeping and record access.4
            
            With the Internet patrons and researchers now have the potential to connect directly to the
                    government's electronic records. Indiana has already taken some steps to facilitate this
                    process; the Information Services Division of the Department of Administration has created World
                    Wide Web sites for, among other agencies, the State Archives, the Criminal Justice Institute, and
                    the State Election Board. As a result, a number of records are now on-line. Whether this service
                    grows is contingent on a number of factors, but principally on the state's budget. Given
                    the financial restrictions that government agencies face, their capacity to make large capital
                    investments in technology is limited. No matter what eventually takes shape, however, the concept of
                    an "archives" will be drastically affected. The "paperless
                    office" will probably never exist, but paper documents will undoubtedly serve ancillary and
                    ephemeral roles in a predominantly electronic process, with all that that implies.5 Determining the whys and wherefores of government actions, already difficult, may well
                    become increasingly problematic as government computerizes.
            INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY
            Researchers seeking to re-create an image of the late twentieth century will find an interesting
                    array of resources at the William Henry Smith Library of the Indiana Historical Society. Some of the
                    research material will be traditional (paper-based materials), others less so (audio-visual), and,
                    increasingly, others will require a broad range of technical expertise and/or equipment
                    (electronic), if they are accessible at all.
            Researchers will also find that the Indiana Historical Society's holdings reflect the
                    societal changes resulting from World War II. Women entering the labor force and remaining in it had
                    increasingly less time to devote to volunteer and social-educational activities; 
                  
                     4 For an introduction to the question of electronic records, see Jeff
                            Rothenburg, "Ensuring the Longevity of Digital Documents," Scientific American, CCLXXII (January, 1995), 42-47.
                  
                     5 The E-mail controversies that bedeviled the investigation of the
                            National Security Agency's role in 
                                Iran
                            -Contragate are a good example of the shape of things to come. For an analysis
                            of this problem from a general perspective, see Philip G. Schrag, "The Working
                            Papers of Federal Policymaking: Our Vanishing Public History," Public
                                Historian, XVI (Fall, 1994), 37-65.
               
                     consequently, there was a rising professionalization of social
                    services, a diminution of quasi educational-social clubs, and an expansion of professional
                    organizations. Some representative collections of social and health service organizations include
                    the Planned Parenthood Association of Central Indiana (M 468), Jewish Welfare Federation of 
                        Indianapolis
                     (M 4631, 
                        Indianapolis
                     Urban League (M 4761, and Citizens Forum (M 425). Professional organizations that rose
                    to prominence after World War II include Women In Communications, Inc. (M 3751, 
                        Indianapolis
                     Press Club (M 6251, Indiana State Nurses Association (M 3801, Indiana Dietetic
                    Association (M 2821, and National Society of Arts and Letters (M 579). Many clubs that were
                    established before the war and that were geared to moral and intellectual improvement also
                    flourished after 1945. Smaller, neighborhood-based clubs, such as the Review Club (M 4371, Pierian
                    Study Club (M 1761, and Current Discussion Club (M 651, all literary and current affairs discussion
                    groups, and the McCutchanville Home Economics Club (SC 24641, a homemakers club, no longer exist.
                    Larger, more broadly based clubs and organizations, such as the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Literary Club (M 3381, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Woman's Club (M 478), and 
                        Indianapolis
                     Dramatic Club (M 6461, continue to thrive.
            Commercial ventures grew, sometimes so indiscriminately that avarice destroyed developing concerns.
                    Some family businesses became corporations and ultimately conglomerates. While some business records
                    continue to be deposited in special collections repositories, most such records are now only
                    accessible in corporate headquarters archives (eg., the 
                        Indianapolis
                    -based Golden Rule Insurance Company). Exceptions include portions of the L. S. Ayres
                    Company Records (M 616); the historic files of Railroadmen's Federal Savings and Loan
                    Association (M 656); the State Street Investment Corporation (BV 2695-61, a record of the sale of
                    the Von Investment Company; and the files of the Indiana Architectural Foundation (M 629) and the
                    Indiana Society of Architects (M 6241, all of which are held by the Indiana Historical Society.
            Two areas in which there are continuing efforts to collect materials are religion and politics. The
                    diversity of material in these subject areas affords researchers the luxury of well-balanced
                    inquiries. Some of these collections include the Indiana Religious History Project (M 577), which
                    documented freedom of worship as guaranteed in an article of the Northwest Ordinance; the records of
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Archdiocesan Council of Catholic Women (M 633); research notes on the Reverend Jim
                    Jones (M 205); the Institute on Religion and Aging (M 421), created to promote improved services and
                    meet the needs of older citizens; Church Women United (M 547); and the Indiana Council of Churches
                    (M 344).
            Collections representing changing attitudes toward military installations are recorded in three
                    interrelated collections (M 332,  M 440, SC 870) detailing the
                    history of the Jefferson Proving Grounds and the controversy over its closure in 1989.
            Several good collections reflecting the role that women have played in politics in Indiana are
                    available. With two of these collections, The League of Women Voters of Indiana (M 612) and The
                    League of Women Voters of 
                        Indianapolis
                     (M 611), researchers have the enviable opportunity to use resources spanning nearly the
                    entire twentieth century. More activist materials are available in the Indiana NOW records (M 583)
                    and in the papers of Julia Strain Fangmeir (M 637), educator, minister, and political activist;
                    Joline Ohmart (M 610), political activist for equal rights and employment standards; Lee Ellen Ford
                    (M 469), scientist, attorney, educator, and feminist; and Susan McWhirter Ostrom (M 3371, civic
                    leader and journalist.
            Politicians’ papers always provide an interesting perspective in understanding the
                    concerns of an era. Some representative collections include the papers of Cecil Harden (M 5841, a
                    five-term Republican congresswoman from western Indiana; Martha Ellis Hopkins (M 146), Republican
                    party leader; and James P. Fadely (M 6511, educator and Democratic political candidate. Judicial and
                    legal issues are more difficult to chronicle, in large part because of client privacy rights.
                    Although an incomplete record, the correspondence and petitions addressed to the Indiana Supreme
                    Court concerning Paula Cooper's (M 565) 1986 death sentence helps to illustrate the
                    state's social consciousness. The Indiana Historical Society also has an invaluable
                    resource in the Senior Lawyers Project (M 574), a collection of oral histories in which leading
                    attorneys cover such wide-ranging topics as rural electrification, legal culture, civil rights, and 
                        Indianapolis
                    -Unigov.
            An area that is not as well documented, in part because people in a rapidly advancing technological
                    society place little value on contemporary materials—the
                    "they-are-valuable-only-if-they-are-really-old syndrome—and in part because
                    technological advances have altered people's lives, are personal papers of typical everyday
                    citizens. In the past, people without access to instant gratification —movies,
                    television, radio, etc.—created their own entertainment. They kept diaries and journals
                    and wrote lengthy letters, skits, short stories, and miscellanies, sometimes dreary but more often
                    eloquent, and occasionally so graphic as to rival our contemporary soap operas. In recording so
                    voluminously their ideas, activities, hopes, and fears, they secured for themselves an assured niche
                    in history. Today, with instant electronic communication, there is diminishing hope of establishing
                    an accurate record of the daily lives of ordinary citizens. Even those who do maintain
                    correspondence, or keep diaries or journals, do so with less reflection, less eloquence, and
                    frequently with such terseness as to be questionably useful. The papers of Joann Walters (M 150), a
                    contemporary  Hoosier, are a notable exception, with widely
                    ranging correspondents providing insight into some of the problems faced by women in the last
                    quarter of the twentieth century.
            In part oral histories have been utilized to fill the informational void created by the absence of
                    written records. The Senior Lawyers Project is a good example, as are two different interviews, one
                    conducted by James H. Madison (SC 2254) with Evelyn Fortune Bartlett and Madeline Fortune Elder,
                    daughters of William Fortune, a prominent 
                        Indianapolis
                     figure, and one by Charles Latham (SC 2303) with Bartlett, Elder, and William Lemcke
                    Fortune, grandson of William Fortune.
            These and many other holdings at the Indiana Historical Society reflect the diversity of a post-World
                    War II Indiana in which people engaged in myriad new activities and expanded old ones. Many of the
                    changes involved dramatic advances by African Americans in the state, and the Indiana Historical
                    Society's collections offer numerous examples of individual and organizational efforts to
                    secure racial and civic equality.
            
                    Selected African-American History Collections at the Indiana Historical Society
                
            The Indiana Historical Society has scores of collections that pertain to the history of African
                    Americans in Indiana. Several collections have been gathered from a variety of sources and donors
                    under the auspices of the Black History Program. Created to address the paucity of materials
                    available for researching Indiana African-American history, the Program officially began in 1982,
                    and its quarterly newsletter, Black History News & Notes, publicizes
                    collections and publishes articles that utilize them. During the early 1980s the Society was one of
                    five repositories in 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana to participate in the Black Women in the Middle West Project, an effort to
                    gather manuscripts and photographs related to African-American women within the two-state area. The
                    undertaking, directed by Darlene Clark Hine, netted the Society fifty collections, including the
                    project's administrative records.
            Numerous collections provide glimpses of the recent history of African Americans in Indiana. Several
                    of the personal papers are useful because they include materials that denote the work of civic
                    leaders, many of whom were involved with multiple organizations and causes. Especially noteworthy
                    are the papers of Robert Broken-burr (M 4921, Jesse L. Dickinson (M 5321, Harvey N. Middleton (M
                    441), Henry J. Richardson, Jr. (M 472), and Roselyn Richardson (M 649). Brokenburr, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     attorney, was the first African American to serve in the Indiana General Assembly.
                    Dickinson, a 
                        South Bend
                     legislator, served in both the Indiana Senate and House. An 
                        Indianapolis
                     cardiologist, Middleton was active in  several
                    local and national organizations, including the Flanner House, Senate Avenue Young Men's
                    Christian Association, United Negro College Fund, the National Association for the Advancement of
                    Colored People, and the Meharry Medical College Alumni Association. Forever an advocate, Henry J.
                    Richardson, Jr., was one of the first blacks to be elected to the Indiana General Assembly in the
                    twentieth century. His collection gives an excellent overview of the advances in civil rights in the
                    state since 1932. Roselyn Richardson has also been very active in numerous civic, religious,
                    educational, and political organizations. Her collection contains the records of the Career Sampling
                    Program, an educational initiative that she began in 1973 at Shortridge High School, part of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     public school system.
            In the spirit of self-help and volunteerism, several agencies, institutions, and clubs developed or
                    adjusted their emphasis to address the social, health, educational, and recreational needs of a
                    changing population during the post-World War II period. Many of the women's clubs that
                    developed prior to World War I, under the umbrella of the Indiana State Federation of Colored
                    Women's Clubs, touted the banner of racial or moral uplift. Club work often addressed
                    critical health needs of the community. Records for the Woman's Improvement Club (M 432)
                    reflect its work with an early open air tuberculosis camp. Responding to the need for health
                    facilities for African Americans, the Grand Body of the Sisters of Charity (M 619) opened a hospital
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1911. The records of the Sojourner Truth Club (M 540) reveal the activities of
                    clubwomen in 
                        Richmond
                    . Although all of these clubs have some materials that date from the post-World War II
                    period, evidence suggests that the focus of many of their activities changed from solving critical
                    social issues to being more recreational in nature. Recent health strides can be seen in the papers
                    (M 510) of Walter Maddux, M.D., who helped found the Herman G. Morgan Health Center in 1943.
            Not as well documented are the clubs and fraternal organizations of African-American men, although
                    Indiana has active chapters of Elks, Masons, Knights of Pythias, Coalition of 100 Black Men, and
                    Greek-letter fraternities. Indiana has two black Greek-letter organizations that can claim Alpha
                    chapters: Kappa Alpha Psi at Indiana University and Sigma Gamma Rho at 
                        Butler
                     University.
            Collections of other organizations that give a broader sense of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     African-American community include the Phyllis Wheatley Young Women's
                    Christian Association (M 494), the Young Women's Christian Association (M 4851, Flanner
                    House (M 5131, and the Federation of Associated Clubs (M 429). In 1964 Mat-tie Coney founded
                    Citizens Forum (M 425) to get an open housing ordinance passed in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and to improve the condition of the city's neighborhoods. Eventually the Forum
                    developed an interracial  self-help program that served as an
                    umbrella group for city block clubs. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Urban League, an advocate for housing and employment, was established in 1965. The
                    organization's voluminous records (M 476) include materials from its forerunner, the
                    Association of Merit Employment.
            The end of World War II brought less tolerance of discrimination in the area of public accommodations
                    such as hotels, restaurants, and recreational areas. Around the state a few cities instituted
                    successful reforms before the passage of the Indiana school desegregation law in 1949. The Henry J.
                    Richardson, Jr., Papers contain information about the passage of the school bill. Two other
                    resources, Emma Lou Thornbrough's 620-page unpublished manuscript "The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Story: School Segregation and Desegregation in a Northern City" (BV 2631) and
                    "History of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     School Desegregation Case: 1968-Present," a 28-page paper by Elson Benedict,
                    Jr., and Frank D. Aquila (SC 1974), detail 
                        Indianapolis
                    's response to a lawsuit initiated by the 
                        United States
                     Department of Justice against the city's public school system, a response that
                    subsequently involved outlying township schools.
            Many Indiana colleges and universities significantly increased their enrollment of black students
                    during the 1960s. Demographic trends suggest that these numbers will continue to grow. Institutions
                    of higher education have identified in-house strategies to support their more diverse student
                    bodies. State, regional, and national organizations have been formed to meet the academic,
                    financial, and sociocultural needs of minority, disabled, andfor dis-advantaged students. The
                    Indiana Mid-American Association of Educational Opportunity Programs Personnel Collection, 1975-1989
                    (M 6151, describes one organization's efforts to promote secondary and postsecondary
                    programs that supported the needs of nontraditional students.
            In more recent years smaller, private colleges have also actively recruited a more diverse student
                    population. Like public universities, these private institutions have noted problems with black
                    student population and retention. During the 1980s 
                        Wabash
                     College instituted an oral history project focusing on African Americans at the school.
                    The project subsequently expanded to include black residents in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . The 
                        Wabash
                     College Oral History Project (M 647) includes interview tapes and transcriptions of
                    fifty people from the college and the city.
            The post—World War II period witnessed the establishment of many grocery stores, service
                    garages, dry cleaning shops, nightclubs, billiard halls, and restaurants owned by African Americans
                    throughout the state. Before the 1960s a highly segregated African-American community supported
                    black-owned businesses, especially in service industries. Two early businesses that continue to
                    exist,  under different ownership, are the Madam C. J. Walker
                    Manufacturing Company and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Recorder. Included in the large Madam C. J. Walker Collection (M 399) are the
                    records of the Madam C. J. Walker Manufacturing Company and several Walker Company entities,
                    including a theatre, drugstore, restaurant, casino, and realty company. Hortense Harlin provides a
                    history of the longest continuously operated African-American newspaper in Indiana in her 1951
                    Indiana University masters thesis, "The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Recorder: A History of a Negro Weekly Newspaper" (SC 1886). The McArthur
                    Conservatory of Music, Inc., located in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was organized in 1946 and closed in 1963. The McArthur Conservatory Collection (M 529)
                    describes an institution that provided recreational and commercial training for children and adults.
            The limited number and lack of geographical and denominational diversity of church records at the
                    Indiana Historical Society does not reflect the role and influence that religious institutions have
                    had in the lives of black Hoosiers. Although the Baptists can claim the largest church membership
                    statewide, the African Methodist Episcopal, the African Methodist Episcopal Zion, Christian
                    Methodist Episcopal, Presbyterian, Christian, Catholic, Pentecostal, and Muslim denominations have a
                    significant number of congregants. Post-World War II church records at the Society include those of
                    the New Bethel Baptist Church (M 450) and Second Baptist Church (M 5241, both located in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Virtea Downey (M 509) gathered records pertaining to various churches in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the Black Women in the Middle West Project, as did Alta Jett (M 495) in 
                        Richmond
                    .
            In its short life span the Black History Program has gathered an impressive group of collections. A
                    major challenge remains the collection of papers and records that will reflect the everyday lives
                    and varied activities of African Americans in all areas of the state.
            DOCUMENTING "INDIANA'S LAST FRONTIER: THE CALUMET REGIONAL ARCHIVES
            In 1959 Professor Powell A. Moore published his classic history of northwest Indiana entitled The Calumet Region: Indiana's Last Frontier. Moore chose his subtitle to
                    illustrate the point that 
                        Lake
                     and 
                        Porter counties
                     served as the final major areas of settlement in the nineteenth state. Although the
                    "State of Lake's" development began later than its southern neighbors,
                    its brief past remains one of the most fascinating and colorful subjects in Hoosier history. The
                    study of the Calumet's history, however, could also be dubbed "Indiana's
                    Last Historical Frontier." Only since 1959 has northwest Indiana received serious attention
                    from professional historians; but as greater numbers of researchers probe the Calumet's
                    past, they will find a repository of primary research materials awaiting them in the Calumet
                    Regional Archives.
            
            The youth of the Archives, established in 1973, reflects that of the Region. Primarily
                    twentieth-century in scope, the repository contains over 360 distinct archival and manuscript
                    collections that furnish information on the history of the arts and music in the area; African
                    Americans, Latinos, and other ethnic groups; education; environmentalism; health; industry; labor;
                    politics; recreation; women; and other topics. Correspondence, minutes, scrapbooks, programs,
                    pamphlets, reports, photographs, and maps, as well as films, videotapes, and sound recordings, are
                    collected and preserved. Many of the collections are small, yet they offer information unavailable
                    anywhere else.
            The holdings of the Calumet Regional Archives are particularly well suited to the study of Indiana in
                    the post-1945 period. The themes of the recent past include the emergence of environmental
                    movements, the rise and decline of industrial unions, civil rightslminority power campaigns, and
                    crime and political corruption. While the Archives holds a number of collections on these subjects,
                    a few of the more useful sources are highlighted below.
            
                    Environmentalism
                
            In the early 1950s one segment of the population began to view the continued industrialization of
                    northwest Indiana with alarm. Stimulated by Bethlehem Steel's plans to build a new mill in
                    the Indiana Dunes, along with the Port of Indiana project, a group of Ogden Dunes women founded the
                    Save the Dunes Council in 1952; the Council ultimately succeeded in winning an Indiana Dunes
                    National Lakeshore in 1966. The Save the Dunes Council Records (CRA 149) include minutes,
                    correspondence, articles, and other records describing this grassroots effort. In addition to the
                    Council records, several leaders of this group have donated their personal papers. Of particular
                    interest are those of Thomas Dustin, the Council's publicity director (CRA 1131, Alton A.
                    Lindsey, a scientist advisor (CRA 1181, Sylvia 
                        Troy
                    , a former Council president (CRA 287), and John Schnurlein, a member of the Indiana
                    Dunes National Lakeshore Advisory Commission (CRA 140).
            As nuclear power came under fire in the 1970s, the Bailly Alliance formed to fight the erection of
                    the area's first nuclear power plant in 
                        Porter County
                    . The Bailly Alliance Records (CRA 23) comprise correspondence, leaflets, newsletters,
                    and reports. While the Bailly Alliance fought the plant in the streets, the Concerned Citizens
                    Against the Bailly Nuclear Site battled the utility in the courts. The papers of Ed Osann, chief
                    attorney for the Concerned Citizens group (CRA 1831, detail the legal maneuverings leading to the
                    project's cancellation.
            Other groups and individuals rode the environmental wave of the past fifty years, and some of their
                    records have entered the  Archives. From the Community Action to
                    Reverse Pollution (CARP) Records (CRA 99) to the People Against Hazardous Landfill Sites (PAHLS)
                    Records (CRA 313), the documentation of this new Calumet tradition has become a major component of
                    the Archives' holdings.
            
                    Labor
                
            Industrial unionism has served as a major theme in the history of northwest Indiana. The post-1945
                    period saw the rapid rise of the United Steel workers of America (USWA) to a position of incredible
                    power in the Calumet Region. Interestingly, union influence declined in just thirty years, as the
                    changing economy, loss of jobs, and internal strife weakened steelworker power by 1982.
            The Calumet Regional Archives holds thirty collections, contributed by union locals and labor
                    leaders, related to the history of the USWA. The USWA Local 1010 (Inland Steel, East 
                        Chicago
                    ) Records (CRA 115) are the most complete. The collection's strength is its
                    coverage of the 1940-1965 period detailing the local's positions regarding wages, hours,
                    and working conditions. A series of files offers useful data on several major strikes during the
                    era, particularly the 116-day steel strike in 1959. Other major collections on the USWA include the
                    USWA Local 1011 (LTV Steel, East 
                        Chicago
                    ) Records (CRA 1211, the John Mayerik (USS Gary Works, Local 1014) Papers (CRA 1681, and
                    the USWA Local 6787 (
                        Bethlehem
                     Steel, 
                        Porter County
                    ) Records (CRA 228). Of special interest are the E. Thomas Colosimo Papers (CRA 325),
                    which contain a run of a local steelworkers newspaper exhibiting an alternative point of view to the
                    mainstream union pronunciations of the period.
            The growing rift between the steelworkers' international union leadership and the
                    rank-and-file membership exploded in the Region in the early 1970s as steelworkers split during the
                    USWA District 31 election. The Samuel Evett Papers (CRA 137) offer insight into the disunity within
                    the union, a fact that contributed to the demise of steelworker strength in the 1970s. Union power
                    suffered even further as the 1980s began, as many local industrial plants either reduced their labor
                    forces or simply closed their doors—the 1982 recession was especially hard on the Calumet
                    Region. A collection of personal papers from Terry Steagall (CRA 31) contains materials related to
                    many union locals as well as plant closings during this period and helps to document the lessening
                    power of organized labor in this bastion of union strength.
            
                    Civil Right/Minority Power
                
            The struggle for civil rights in northwest Indiana mirrored events nationally. Although the election
                    of Richard Gordon Hatcher as one of the first black mayors of a major 
                        American city
                     (Gary) is  often identified with the rise of local
                    black political power, events in the 1940s and 1950s paved the way for Hatcher's 1967
                    victory. In documenting this subject, the Archives has had to rely on personal collections. Among
                    early civil rights events were the desegregation of Miller Beach along Lake
                    Michigan and the employment of African Americans in Gary's downtown department
                    stores. The Clifford E. Minton Papers (CRA 160) chronicle those episodes and much more; Minton
                    headed the Gary Urban League from 1949 to 1965. A brief record of the Gary NAACP activities can be
                    found in the Jeanette Strong Papers (CRA 79)) which include photographs of an open housing march
                    down 
                        Broadway
                     in 1963.
            Unfortunately, the Archives lacks the papers of Richard Hatcher, but various small collections
                    attempt to provide some information on the Hatcher era, 1967-1987. For example, the Archives has
                    begun a Richard Hatcher Collection (CRA 861, a grouping of discrete items about the mayor. Included
                    are items such as campaign materials and photographs. The Henry Coleman Papers (CRA 277) contain
                    various reports and news articles about the Hatcher elections in 1967 and 1971 and the city
                    controller's office in the early 1970s. Correspondence, memoranda, speeches, programs, and
                    campaign materials in the Charlene Crowell Papers (CRA 321) furnish information on the later years
                    of the Hatcher administration. Finally, a few materials about the Gary Human Relations Commission
                    and various 
                        Hatcher city
                     programs are housed in the Leonard Dreyfus Papers (CRA 268).
            In addition to the voices of African Americans seeking social justice, Latinos began to gain greater
                    visibility in the political and social arena. Current collections include the Nicolas Kanellos
                    Papers (CRA 273), which encompass records of the Concerned Latins Organization, established to
                    promote greater sensitivity to Latino concerns in education and local government. The Abe Morales
                    Papers (CRA 260) provide some data on the Gary Latin American Democrats, while the Manuel and Louise
                    Martinez Papers (CRA 253) include materials about local League of United Latin American Citizens
                    (LULAC) activities.
            
                    Crime and Corruption
                
            One of the most persistent images of the Calumet Region centers on its reputation as a
                    "wide-open" area, home to organized crime leaders and corrupt politicians. This
                    legacy began in the Prohibition era and continued into the post-1945 period as vice dens
                    proliferated and local politicians were investigated by congressional committees and sometimes
                    convicted and removed from office. The Archives has preserved several collections relating to this
                    more colorful aspect of the Region's recent past.
            In 1949 the senseless killing of a popular Gary schoolteacher prompted a group of outraged women to
                    action. The Women's Citizens  Committee (WCC) began a
                    crusade to clean up Gary and rid the city of vice and corruption. The Women's Citizens
                    Committee Records (CRA 30) document these efforts, which gained national exposure. The Northwest
                    Indiana Crime Commission succeeded the WCC in the late 1950s. The papers of Elmer Jacobsen (CRA
                    3091, director of the crime commission from 1965 to its demise in 1975, contain minutes,
                    correspondence, and subject files on topics ranging from corruption to gambling to prostitution. One
                    of the politicians falling from grace in this period was Gary Mayor George Chacharis, who was sent
                    to prison for tax evasion in 1962. The Chacharis Papers (CRA 18) furnish insight, through letters
                    and other materials, into the life and times of this Greek immigrant who rose to prominence yet
                    prematurely left office in disgrace.
            Virtually all of the collections described above, along with the other 350 collections in the
                    Archives, are available for research. "Indiana's Last Frontier"
                    beckons-all explorers are welcome!
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Nixon Reconsidered. By Joan Hoff. (
                        New York
                    : Basic Books, 1994. Pp. xviii, 475. Notes, bibliography, index. $30.00.)
            This deeply researched book, the principal revisionist account of the Richard M. Nixon
                    administration, is divided into three parts. The first discusses Nixon's domestic political
                    agenda. The second treats Nixon's foreign policy, and the third evaluates Watergate. Joan
                    Hoff, who had unprecedented access to Nixon, consciously turns on their head all of the customary
                    evaluations of Nixon's activities while president. Earlier observers praised his foreign
                    policy, condemned his domestic policy as mean and angry, and claimed that Nixon always would be
                    remembered for disgracing the presidency during Watergate, a major constitutional crisis. Hoff,
                    however, argues that Nixon's greatest achievements were in the field of domestic policy.
                    She considers his foreign policy largely a failure, based on an unhealthy personal relationship with
                    Henry A. Kissinger. As for Watergate, she believes it was a relatively minor scandal. Future
                    generations, she predicts, will probably remember Watergate much as current historians think about
                    Teapot Dome.
            What is one to make of all this combative revisionism? Hoff stands on the firmest ground in her
                    criticism of Nixon's foreign policy, precisely the area in which her analysis is the least
                    unconventional. Here her quarrel is not so much with historians as with the mass media who glorified
                    Nixon's foreign policy while he was president and who argued that it was his one worthy
                    achievement. It was in foreign policy, however, that the bad Nixon—the secretive,
                    suspicious, manipulative man of the cartoons and the standard version—stood out. In
                    Nixon's account, assinger's recollections, and the mass media of the day, the
                    president's long daily meetings and endless telephone calls with Kwsinger demonstrated a
                    keen intelligence searching out the best minds of the establishment for solutions to the vexing
                    problems of the Cold War. Hoff, however, believes that the two men spent too much time together for
                    their own good. Theirs was an unhealthy relationship. Isolated from the voices of people who had
                    more sense about foreign policy, Nixon and Kissinger created a policy that could not stand the test
                    of time. Far from creating a structure of peace, as they claimed at the time, their foreign policy
                    was based on sleight of hand. Dktente seemed to fail, 
                        Vietnam
                     policy was a bloody debacle, 
                        Iran
                     soon succumbed to revolution. Only the opening to 
                        China
                     led to lasting achievements. Even here, Nixon and assinger were never able to square
                    the circle of opening relations with Beijing and maintaining them with Taiwan. Only Jimmy Carter was
                    willing to take the opening to 
                        China
                     to its logical conclusion and establish diplomatic relations with Beijing and end them
                    with Taiwan.
            
            Hoff s account of Nixon's domestic political achievements is fresher and is likely to be
                    more enduring. Historians and public affairs analysts have long puzzled over the fact that Nixon ran
                    on a more liberal domestic platform in 1972 than did any Republican or any
                    Democratic presidential nominee from 1976 until 1992. Hoff goes through enormous, even tedious,
                    detail to demonstrate that Nixon's domestic policies helped protect the environment,
                    enhanced the status of women, and advanced the position of Native Americans in American society. In
                    that sense Hoff's Nixon is indeed the man whom Garry Wills characterized as "the
                    last liberal." Wills was being ironic, and he also placed Nixon squarely in the context of
                    nineteenth-century marketplace liberalism. Hoff, however, argues that Nixon was really a
                    twentieth-century progressive Republican.
            There is an explanation for Nixon's expansion of the federal government's programs
                    to assist previously excluded groups. Public opinion did not turn on a dime and reject the reforms
                    of the Great Society in 1968. Even the white backlash, exploited successfully by both George C.
                    Wallace's presidential campaign and Nixon's southern strategy, did not reject
                    government programs in the way conservatives and libertarians of the 1980s and 1990s would do. White
                    working class voters might have believed in the late 1960s that Lyndon B. Johnson had gone too far
                    in diverting government resources from them, but they welcomed government programs that they
                    believed would benefit them. Tom Wicker characterized Nixon as "one of us,)) meaning that
                    he gripped the pulse of the American electorate as did no other national leader in the forty years
                    after 1945. He expressed the hopes and also the fears, anxieties, and anger of two generations of
                    Americans. In the late 1960s and early 1970s most people had not given up on the federal government
                    as a positive force. Neither had Nixon. More and more voters wanted harsher government actions
                    against crime, and many had lost patience with the claims of the poor. Nixon fed this anger too.
            Hoff's discussion of Nixon's domestic policy is the strongest part of her book.
                    Ironically, it is also the hardest to read. Every government agency has an acronym, and the letters
                    strewn across the page make for some heavy reading. In that regard, Hoffs account of
                    Nixon's domestic policy resembles nothing so much as Margaret Thatcher's
                    description in her memoirs of what she accomplished in the domestic field. Unlike Nixon who wanted
                    to modify and occasionally expand the welfare state, Thatcher was a conservative, committed to
                    dismantling the social programs constructed by British governments since the Second World War. But
                    both Hoff and Thatcher love to write in acronyms.
            At one point Hoff considered writing about "Nixon without Watergate," but friends
                    told her she had to deal with the scandal  that eventually
                    brought the president down. The section on Watergate is the weakest in the book. Hoff clearly is
                    uncomfortable writing about it, and her account really is not all that different from
                    Nixon's: he was not that deeply involved; others in the administration did the really bad
                    things; previous presidents had done much worse; it was not a constitutional crisis; the reforms
                    created in the wake of Watergate have not worked that well; and in fifty years people will not
                    remember it anyway. None of these assertions, with perhaps the sad exception of the last, rings
                    true. Hoff has not successfully rebutted Stanley [. Kutler's richly detailed account, The Wars of Watergate (1990). Moreover, the publication of H. R.
                    Haldeman's diary weeks after Nixon's death in 1994 revived public memories of the
                    spiteful conniving Nixon.
            ROBERT D. SCHULZINGER is professor of history, University
                    of 
                        Colorado
                    , Boulder. Among his many books is Henry Kissinger: Doctor of Diplomacy (1989).
         
         
            
               William Fortune (1863-1942): A Hoosier Biography. By Charles Latham, jr. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Guild Press of Indiana, Inc., 1994. Pp. ix, 205. Illustrations, appendixes, notes,
                    index. $18.95.)
            Studies of late-nineteenth and early-twentieth century 
                        Indianapolis
                     have largely ignored William Fortune, focusing instead on the city's most
                    prominent industrialists (the Lillys, James Allison), automotive pioneers (Carl Fisher, Harry
                    Stutz), major retailers (the Ayres family), and leading literary lights (James Whitcomb Riley, Booth
                    Tarkington). Yet Fortune played a prominent role in the community's development for half a
                    century, especially in the "golden" years from 1890 to 1920. Charles
                    Latham's short, engagingly written biography, based on thorough research in primary
                    materials, is thus a welcome addition to the canon of Indiana biographies as well as to the
                    historiography of the Hoosier capital.
            Fortune was born in Boonville, Indiana. Work on the Boonville Standard beginning in his early teens,
                    as well as extensive personal reading, provided much of his education. In 1882 he moved to the state
                    capital, where he initially pursued a newspaper career—first on the Journal, then with
                    the News. He subsequently published a trade magazine, Municipal Engineering;
                    headed several local telephone companies (he placed the first dial call in the city); and served on
                    the board of the pharmaceutical firm Eli Lilly and Company.
            Beginning about 1890 Fortune sought ways, in Latham's words, "to be an agent of
                    civic improvement" (p. 36). He worked closely with Colonel Eli Lilly in founding the
                    Commercial Club (later the Chamber of Commerce) and thereafter coordinated several of the
                    organization's very important initiatives for municipal progress. During the First World
                    War he was one of the founders of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     chapter of the Red Cross; he continued to lead the local  chapter throughout the 1920s and 1930s, as well as serving on the
                    central committee of the national Red Cross. He also presided over the city's fund-raising
                    efforts for the War Chest in 1918. Latham relates these public activities, as well as much about
                    Fortune's private life, with an eye for interesting details and telling anecdotes.
            The breadth of Fortune's business concerns and civic activities, as well as his acquaintance
                    with most of the city's movers and shakers, ensures that this volume will be frequently
                    consulted by those with interests in 
                        Indianapolis
                     history. It is thus regrettable that the author and his publisher did not exercise
                    greater care in its production. Instances of editorial laxity abound. The location of several
                    important manuscript sources is not given, for example; and although dozens of endnotes refer to
                    materials in "WF or "WFII," these collections are not included in the
                    list of abbreviations. Many individuals and families go unidentified; the assumption seems to be
                    that since the author knows who these people are, the reader will too. Finally, and most serious,
                    are the multiple errors in citation. In Chapter 11, for instance, there is no note number 1 in the
                    text; there are two note 12s and two note 21s; and there is no note 26 in the text in spite of the
                    fact that there is an endnote with that number. Neatness counts; and, fairly or not, the
                    author's scholarship and the publisher's commitment to excellence will be called
                    into question by such inattention to detail.
            That said, this is a book that those interested in Indiana's capital, especially for the
                    years around the turn of the twentieth century, will find both useful and entertaining.
                    Institutional libraries with significant Indiana or 
                        Indianapolis
                     holdings will want to add it to their collections, and it will be a welcome addition to
                    many personal libraries as well.
            ROBERT G. BARROWS, coeditor of the Encyclopedia of 
                        Indianapolis
                     (1994), is a member of the History Department, Indiana University-Purdue University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
            
               Producers, Proletarians, and Politicians: Workers and Party Politics in 
                            Evansville
                         and New 
                            Albany
                        , Indiana, 1850-87. By Lawrence M. Lipin. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1994. Pp. xii, 313. Tables, maps, notes, index. $42.50.)
            This book will appeal to two audiences—devotees of Indiana history and scholarly
                    researchers into nineteenth-century labor history. Although the study is densely detailed and
                    closely argued, both groups will find the time spent with it to be worthwhile.
            Readers interested in Indiana history will find a richly documented account of the social, economic,
                    and political development of two medium-sized cities, 
                        Evansville
                     and New 
                        Albany
                    . They will add to their understanding of the influence of German immigration  and ethnicity and gain new insight into the power and influence
                    exercised by Washington C. DePauw. They will also deepen their understanding of the evolution of
                    Indiana politics in the second half of the nineteenth century.
            Much of the approach of Producers, Proletarians, and Politicians will be familiar
                    to scholarly readers. The microcosmic case study is a common format for labor history. In addition,
                    Lipin's analysis of the persistence of artisan workshops amid economic development and the
                    roles of social organizations such as the Odd Fellows and volunteer fire companies echoes Bruce
                    Laurie's work on 
                        Philadelphia
                    . His exploration of interclass relations in a non-metropolitan setting is reminiscent
                    of Herbert G. Gutman's treatment of Paterson, 
                        New Jersey
                    ; his assessment of the impact of the Civil War on economic growth, class relations, and
                    political ideologies parallels David 
                        Montgomery
                    's work. Lipin not only lives up to the standards of these scholars but, in his
                    careful case studies, also manages to deepen the current understanding of issues discussed in their
                    works. Far from merely confirming previous arguments, he has made solid contributions of his own.
            One of the more interesting topics in this book is Lipin's discussion of the relationship
                    between political activism and trade unionism. It was long an article of faith within labor history
                    that political and trade union activity appeared in alternating cycles linked to the ups and downs
                    of the economy. When the economy was expanding, trade unionism dominated; but when the economy
                    turned down, political activity consumed the energy of the working class. Lipin's argument
                    flies past this old saw and demonstrates that political activism and ideologies often fueled trade
                    unionism.
            The author's analysis of local politics explores the entire culture of political activity
                    rather than electoral campaigns or the behavior of officeholders alone. In ward meetings, rallies,
                    parades, and political back rooms, Lipin finds an interaction between middle-class political figures
                    and working-class activists that, far from blocking an emergent working-class consciousness,
                    encourages "working-class assertiveness" through an "anti-aristocratic
                    rhetoric" which, at times, articulates a new language of class.
            Lipin finds this process much more fully developed in 
                        Evansville
                     than New 
                        Albany
                    . A politically expressed working-class consciousness went further in 
                        Evansville
                    , where small shops and ethnic cultures predominated, than in New 
                        Albany
                    , where industrialization and proletarianization swept faster and wider.
                    Lipin's careful research does not lead him to leap to the conclusion that American
                    working-class consciousness was at its prime before full-scale industrialization. Rather, it was the
                    specific circumstances of W. C, DePauw's ability to control the New 
                        Albany
                     middle class which blocked interclass political coalitions. Still, Lipin does leave one
                    wondering if the historical record suggests that some sort of 
                    interclass interaction was necessary for the emergence of working-class expression in
                    nineteenth-century America.
            PETER RACHLEFF is associate professor of history,
                    Macalester College, St. Paul, Minnesota. His most recent book is Hard-Pressed in the
                        Heartland: The Hormel Strike and the Future of the Labor Movement (1993).
         
         
            
               Kenyon Cox, 1856-1919: A Life in American Art. By H. Wayne Morgan.
                            (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1994. Pp. xii, 290. Illustrations, notes, bibliographic essay,
                    index. $32.00.)
            As the grandson of American evangelist Charles Grandison Finney and the son of a man who served at
                    various times as governor of 
                        Ohio
                    , secretary of the interior, congressman, president of the University of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and dean of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Law School, Kenyon Cox was well situated to absorb an appreciation of the value of high
                    ideals and civil responsibility. Kenyon's mother, Helen, however, was the family's
                    primary agent of idealism, and her influence on Kenyon was especially pronounced because of a
                    prolonged childhood illness that kept him at home in her care. H. Wayne Morgan makes clear in his
                    biography of this significant American artist that these early influences were extremely important
                    factors in the development of Cox's classical style as a painter and his antimodernist
                    stance as a critic.
            This biography of Cox follows logically upon three of Morgan's previous publications: New Muses: Art in American Culture, 1865-1920 (1978), An American Art
                        Student in 
                            Paris
                        : The Letters of Kenyon Cox, 1877-1882 (1986), and Keepers of
                        Culture: The Art Thought of Kenyon Cox, Royal Cortissoz, and Frank Jewett Mather, Jr.
                    (1989). With thorough research and serviceable prose Morgan details the evolution of the artist,
                    chronicling early student days in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , five years spent in 
                        Paris
                     studying at the École des Beaux-Arts and in private ateliers, efforts to
                    make a living as an artist in 
                        New York
                     in the 1880s, and eventual emergence after 1900 as one of this country's
                    premier muralists. Morgan focuses upon Cox's growth as an academic painter committed to
                    mastering the fundamentals of drawing and composition and to emulating the best work of the European
                    tradition. Morgan's best writing surfaces in his descriptions of the artworks themselves,
                    many of which are not reproduced and none of which are reproduced in color. The biographer is
                    weakest in portraying personalities and relationships, and the reader sometimes wishes for a
                    leavening of anecdote to soften the relentless succession of descriptions of Cox's artistic
                    activities.
            Morgan's chapter on Cox's murals and the American mural painting movement is
                    perhaps the book's most important chapter. Cox's work coincided with a building
                    boom and a growing interest in public art that saw painters decorate approximately four hundred  buildings in the first two decades of the new century.
                    "Murals were the grand opera of painting …," writes Morgan;
                    "their themes were larger than life, grander than living," and they were meant
                    "to speak broadly to a tradition that viewers could comprehend, and which would enlarge
                    their sense of importance as citizens" (p. 139). Cox's knowledge of Italian
                    Renaissance masters, his belief in the power of idealism and allegory, and his proficiency as a
                    figure painter combined to make the artist one of America's most sought-after muralists.
                    Cox provided works for new state capitols in 
                  Wisconsin, Iowa
               , and 
                        Minnesota
                    , as well as for the Library of Congress and several public buildings in 
                        New York
                     City.
            As Morgan shows, Cox's critical attack on modernism, which he saw as culturally divisive
                    with its emphasis on the eccentric, the individual, and the mundane, was a natural extension of his
                    classical training and his belief that art should unify and uplift the viewing public. Though
                    Cox's conservative stand has been largely discredited, his writings testify to the large
                    aspirations of an age that made best sellers out of such novels as Lew Wallace's Ben-Hur and Charles Major's When Knighthood Was in
                    Flower. Morgan's biography illuminates the kind of dedication and struggle that a life
                    in American art entailed, even for someone as talented as Cox, whose finances were a continual worry
                    and whose critics, including family members, were not always supportive of his belief in the
                    idealism and symbolism of nude figures. The book will be useful to anyone interested in American art
                    and culture.
            J. KENT CALDER is managing editor for the Indiana
                    Historical Society His article on muralist John D Pusey appeared in the summer, 1990, issue of the
                        IHS's Traces of Indiana and Midwestern History.
            
         
         
            
               Adventures on the Western Frontier: Major General John Gibbon. Edited by Alan
                    and Maureen Gaff. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1994. Pp. xvi, 256. Illustrations, sources, index.
                    $24.95.)
            While John Gibbon's role as a Union officer during the Civil War was chronicled in his Personal Recollections of the Civil War (1928), his military and personal
                    experiences in the American West are less systematically delineated. This edited work presents an
                    account of Gibbon's more than two decades of military service in the American West
                    assembled from articles he published in various magazines, particularly the American
                        Catholic Quarterly Review, and from manuscript materials in the General John Gibbon
                    Collection at The Historical Society of 
                  Pennsylvania, Philadelphia
               . An 1847
                    graduate of the 
                        United States
                     Military Academy, Gibbon was a perceptive observer of the changing life of the western
                    frontier, and his works provide perspective on the transitory nature of the frontier. Although a
                    military officer throughout his career, he was,  nevertheless,
                    not unaware of the failure of military and civilian policy in addressing the future of Native
                    Americans.
            The editors have selected for inclusion in this work entries that reveal Gibbon's
                    experiences in frontier travel, his fascination with the natural wonders of Yellowstone and the
                    West, his role in the Indian campaigns of the last quarter of the nineteenth century, and his
                    suggestions for addressing the "Indian Question." Each entry is a personal and
                    unofficial account of a selected segment of Gibbon's western experiences. Much of the work
                    focuses upon his military endeavors in this region including his experiences in the aftermath of the
                    Battle of the Little Bighorn, his pursuit of Chief Joseph and the Nez Percé, and the
                    defeat of his forces at the Battle of the Big Hole by the Nez Percé.
            Although not present at the Battle of the Little Bighorn, Gibbon arrived there with his company of
                    the 
                        Montana
                     Column shortly after the withdrawal of the Sioux and Cheyenne and played a role in
                    providing care for Major Marcus Reno's wounded forces and the burial of General George A.
                    Custer's men. While providing no new insight into the details of this battle, his account
                    does present a sense of the universal confusion and apprehension that swept through General Alfred
                    H. Terry's forces as they sought to comprehend what had transpired.
            Appreciating the nuances of frontier life in the West, Gibbon sensitively describes in clear and
                    concise prose the plight of Native Americans, the transformation of the region by white settlement,
                    and the decline of wildlife resources. Commenting frequently upon the difficulty of travel in this
                    region, Gibbon demonstrates the dilemmas of the 
                        United States
                     Army in closing with the Sioux, Cheyenne, and Nez Percé, societies that were
                    more mobile and more knowledgeable of the environment in which they lived. Although a military
                    officer with a distinguished record of service, Gibbon empathized with the Indian tribes he
                    encountered and understood their reaction to continued white intrusion into their traditional lands.
                    While recognizing the inevitability of the destruction of the traditional life of the Crow, Sioux,
                    Cheyenne, and Nez Percé, he acknowledged the legitimacy of their defense of their lands
                    and the responsibility the 
                        United States
                     government had in defining a future for them.
            The volume is edited in a light, but careful manner. Since many of the entries were derived from
                    articles in the American Catholic Quarterly Review, it would have been useful to
                    have explored Gibbon's relationship with this publication. The book's index allows
                    the reader to find specific topics and themes easily. Maps would have enhanced the work and made it
                    easier to follow Gibbon's experiences in the West.
            PHILLIP DRENNON THOMAS is presently
                    engaged in a book-length study of wildlife in the American West. His research interests include the
                    art and artists of the American West and the growth of natural history in America.
         
         
         
            
               Gerald J. Boileau and the Progressive-Farmer-Labor Alliance: Politics of the New
                        Deal. By James J. Lorence. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1994. Pp. xiii, 324. Illustrations, notes, tables, map, appendix, bibliography,
                    index. $44.95.)
            Historians are prone to assert six impossible things before breakfast, but none, apparently, has
                    clamored for a good biography of Gerald Boileau, a now-forgotten, four-term 
                        Wisconsin
                     congressman first elected in 1930. Fortunately, James J. Lorence happened upon this La
                    Follette Republican and Progressive and resourcefully pursued his career through more than one
                    hundred manuscript collections. Boileau's congressional tenure, though bracketed by
                    unremarkable service as district attorney and then circuit court judge, placed him at the center of
                    congressional left-wing activities.
            As floor leader of the House's Progressive/Farmer-Labor coalition and as a key figure in its
                    broader (more than forty-member) liberal bloc, better known today through leaders Maury Maverick and
                    Tom Amlie, Boileau mobilized liberals in their battles against chain stores and holding companies;
                    for currency inflation; and in support of aid to poor farmers, unemployed and unionizing workers,
                    and Spanish loyalists. Lorence's evidence on the liberals’ effectiveness in
                    pushing President Franklin D. Roosevelt leftward is mixed—at some points he dismisses
                    their efforts as "an interesting side show" while at others he notes their
                    "substantial impact." His roll call analyses of Progressive/Farmer-Labor unity are
                    more impressive, although he might have elaborated upon the techniques and skills employed by
                    Boileau to help to secure this cohesion. Lorence is most convincing in accounting for this
                    coalition's decline; he traces its dissolution to splits between isolationists and
                    interventionists, to regional differences, and to the rout suffered in the 1938 election's
                    conservative avalanche.
            One fascinating puzzle, however, remains at the book's center. From the start, Lorence
                    presents Boileau as a progressive "politicians’ politician," a
                    "doer," someone whose fierce rhetorical commitment to progressive principles did
                    not get in the way of calculated political advancement. Boileau's skills as a flexible
                    insider, tactician, and coalition builder, Lorence shows, were also reflected in his success in
                    drawing support from a range of farmer, veteran, union, and constituent groups (he was a vigorous
                    defender of 
                        Wisconsin
                     milk producers). But what Lorence does not explain fully is why, in 1937 and 1938,
                    Boileau, though apparently never a "card-carrying communist," worked closely with
                    party members. His resulting radical reputation doomed what would already have been an uphill
                    reelection battle. Boileau apparently had reveled in his newfound national prominence and his status
                    as featured speaker on the radio and at left-wing gatherings. Lorence's main explanation
                    goes beyond Boileau's commitment to "principle" to place a  counterintuitive emphasis on Boileau's overarching
                    "ambition," especially his hope to parlay his notoriety into a Progressive
                    senatorial nomination.
            Perhaps if Lorence had more systematically explored Boileau's personality (despite using
                    Boileau's private papers, this volume is definitely a "public life"), his
                    ideology (the picture of his distinctly non-"urban liberal" antitrust
                    individualism is not terribly helpful in this episode), his "fiery" rhetorical
                    style (which only in this stage of his life is depicted as shrill), and his own assessment of what
                    the Communist party had to offer, these crucial two years would have seemed less out of character.
                    Just by raising such intriguing questions through this clearly written and well-informed narrative,
                    however, Lorence has advanced the understanding of the left-wing congressional challenge to
                    Roosevelt.
            MARK H. LEFF is associate professor of history, University
                    of 
                  Illinois, Urbana
               -
                        Champaign
                    .
         
         
            
               Harry S. Truman: A Life. By Robert H. Ferrell. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1994. Pp. xiv, 501. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            Harry S. Truman's historical reputation attained a kind of national apotheosis in 1992.
                    First occurred the publication of David G. McCullough's massive, adoring, and best-selling
                    biography. Then President George Bush adopted Truman's 1948 campaign as a model for his own
                    ill-fated effort to gain a second term in the White House. In the process Truman became a national
                    political saint whose allegiance to the Democratic party seemed almost irrelevant to his larger
                    status as a legendary embodiment of American outspokenness. Few in 1992 remembered what Truman stood
                    for; they recalled only that he gave political opponents hell and thereby won an upset victory over
                    Thomas E. Dewey and the over-confident Republicans.
            Robert H. Ferrell's excellent study now restores Truman to a human scale and weighs his
                    character and achievements with balance and insight. This biography does not treat Truman as the
                    typical American transformed into a great president in the crucible of the Cold War. For Ferrell, a
                    distinguished member of the Indiana University faculty, Truman "was not the complete
                    leader; he was capable of errors" (p. xi). The judicious tone of the book adds weight to
                    Ferrell's overall endorsement of Truman's record in public life.
            Another strength of Ferrell's narrative is the coverage of the significant historical
                    controversies that have surrounded Truman's life and presidency. The handling of such
                    issues as containment, the Korean War, and Truman's role in the onset of McCarthyism is
                    very well done. In the most discussed decision that Truman made,  to drop the atomic bomb on the Japanese in August, 1945, Ferrell sets out the difficult choices
                    that the president confronted. On the question of prospective American casualties for an invasion of 
                        Japan
                    , Ferrell comes down on the side of a higher estimate of lives lost than do the critics
                    of Truman. The review of the evidence that Ferrell provides is thorough and convincing.
            Ferrell's evenhanded approach to Truman provides other illuminating insights. He suggests
                    that the president's fatigue in office caused many of the nagging problems and mistakes of
                    his second term. Truman's administrative style gets higher marks than the relaxed and often
                    careless approach of Franklin D. Roosevelt. The book also contains many tart appraisals of the
                    personalities of the Truman era. Ferrell concludes that Clark Clifford overrated his own importance
                    in the Truman White House. William O. Douglas, Ferrell says, "was an attractive
                    second-rater" (p. 271). The criticism of General Douglas MacArthur is appropriate; the
                    scenario about a potential Taft-MacArthur slate in 1952 seems implausible.
            The notes to the text are a small book in themselves. They will provide leads for further research
                    and offer incisive judgments about many issues relating to Truman and his times. The range of
                    sources consulted and the information assembled further reveal Ferrell's mastery of this
                    period.
            Truman may have been the last of the citizen presidents. He kept a firm grasp on the distinction
                    between the office he occupied and his own sense of himself. While he contributed to the growth of
                    the imperial presidency during the Cold War, Truman never forgot the human dimensions of his
                    stewardship in the White House. As the nation approaches another dreary presidential election of
                    sound bytes, focus groups, and media-driven posturing, Harry Truman's down-to-earth
                    qualities have an appealing freshness. Ferrell's fascinating biography has well captured
                    the individuality, imperfections, and sizeable achievements of the nation's thirty-third
                    president.
            LEWIS L. GOULD is Eugene C. Barker Centennial Professor in
                    American History, The University of 
                        Texas
                    , Austin. He is the editor of a forthcoming encyclopedia on American First
                Ladies.
         
         
            
               Church People in the Struggle: The National Council of Churches and the Black Freedom
                        Movement, 1950-1970. By James F. Findlay, Jr. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1993. Pp. [ix], 255. Notes, table, illustrations, sources, index.
                    $35.00.)
            Prior to 1963 the National Council of Churches, an umbrella organization of Protestant denominations,
                    took little direct action on racial discrimination and segregation. The council had established in
                    1921 a Department of Race Relations, later renamed the 
                    Department of Racial and Cultural Relations, whose major event was Race Relations Sunday. It was an
                    annual reminder of the need to dispel prejudice. In 1956 the council began its "Southern
                    Project" to mediate interracial tensions in the aftermath of the Brown v. Board of Education Supreme Court decision that prohibited separate public school systems.
                    The council's efforts, however, were still more expressive than instrumental.
            Drawing upon New Testament language and imagery, Findlay writes, "Between 1960 and 1963
                    there emerged a sense of the imminence of a kairos among church people, of the
                    growing need to act or to participate publicly ‘as the church’ in the great
                    racial struggles that were so deeply affecting the nation" (p. 4). That favorable moment of
                    heightened expectations and new possibilities differed from chronos or regular,
                    normal, clock time, but it was stimulated in large measure by Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s
                    famous Letter from Birmingham Jail, drafted on April 16, 1963. With its scathing attack on the
                    inaction of the churches, that document put mainline religious groups on the defensive. Findlay
                    credits the black struggle for civil rights, more than the goodwill of church people, with creating
                    the kairos moment.
            On June 7, 1963, the General Board of the council voted to establish a Commission on Religion and
                    Race with a substantial budget. For the first time the Protestant churches, nationwide, approved
                    support of the struggle for racial justice. Three years earlier the council had elected J. Irwin
                    Miller its president. The first layman to hold that position, Miller was from 
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana, and a director in the family firm of Cummins Engine, the world's
                    largest manufacturer of diesel engines. During the 1930s he had desegregated Cummins plants in
                    Indiana. President John F. Kennedy appointed Miller chair of the national meeting of church leaders
                    held at the White House on June 17 to endorse the president's civil rights program and
                    pending legislation.
            One of the commission's first tasks was to rally support for the March on 
                        Washington
                     in August. Some 40,000 church people participated in the march. They also lobbied for
                    passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act and the 1965 Voting Rights Act by persuading several key
                    midwestern legislators to vote for the legislation. About 275 ministers and lay members spent time
                    in 
                        Mississippi
                     during Freedom Summer, 1964. That fall, the council organized the Delta Ministry to
                    assist the poor in 
                        Mississippi
                     with community development. The Delta Ministry abandoned traditional missionary
                    paternalism for a model of quiet servanthood. One of its major successes was the Child Development
                    Group of 
                        Mississippi
                    , which sponsored Head Start programs throughout the state. Its Delta Opportunity
                    Corporation and Delta Foundation sought to promote job retraining, literacy, health education, home
                    building, and light industry.  The Delta Foundation started
                    eight companies to manufacture bicycle wheels, blue jeans, attic stairs, house fans, railroad
                    spikes, and electrical mechanical switches in the economically depressed region where hundreds of
                    thousands of African Americans became unemployed after the mechanization of cotton production.
            By the early 1970s the kairos moment of the 1960s in race relations subsided.
                    Findlay does a superb job of explaining the declining interest in racial justice. The 1960s riots,
                    the rise of black power, and the debate over fundamental social and economic change weakened the
                    earlier consensus on civil rights. The "Black Manifesto" that demanded a half
                    billion dollars in reparations from all the white churches of America met a strong rebuff. Findlay
                    correctly concludes that the council's involvement in the 1960s black freedom movement was
                    vulnerable because it was a top-down commitment by church hierarchy rather than a grass-roots
                    commitment by the church membership.
            This excellent study of the Protestant church's role in the civil rights struggle,
                    especially in 
                        Mississippi
                    , is a major contribution to an understanding of the region and the era. It illuminates
                    the national consensus on racial justice that emerged after World War II but disintegrated by the
                    1970s.
            ROBERT L. HARRIS, JR., is associate
                    professor of African-American history in the Africana Studies and Research Center, Cornell
                    University, 
                  Ithaca, New York
               . He is the author of Teaching African-American
                        History (1985) among other publications.
         
         
            
               Games Colleges Play: Scandal and Reform in Intercollegiate Athletics. By John R.
                    Thelin. (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins University Press, 1994. Pp. xviii, 252. Notes, bibliography, index.
                    $34.95.)
            The subtitle of John R. Thelin's book implies that actual reform has occurred during the
                    history of college sports whereas his text proves the opposite. Throughout this century
                    intercollesate athletics have become increasingly corrupt and the people in
                    charge—coaches, athletic directors, and compliant faculty and college
                    presidents—have become less willing and able to make systemic changes as well as more
                    adept at defusing all reform attempts. Very few schools, notably the Ivy League institutions and
                    Notre Dame, have been exceptions to this rule.
            For readers who do not know the sorry history of the major reform movements in college sports, Games Colleges Play provides essential facts and excellent analysis. Thelin shows
                    that college sports have long been highly commercial enterprises with many attendant evils and that
                    the first major reform effort, undertaken in the 1920s by the Carnegie Foundation, produced a
                    brilliant  report and changed nothing because university
                    administrators were unwilling to implement its proposals on their individual campuses.
            By the 1930s such conferences as the Big Ten, while posing as the reformers of college sports,
                    implemented rules to insure increasing commercialization. After World War II intercollegiate
                    athletics entered a boom period that culminated in the basketball-fixing scandals of the late
                    1940s—early 1950s. From these events came the second major reform movement, led by the
                    American Council on Education's Presidential Committee. The committee suggested many wise
                    proposals, all of which were sent to oblivion by the big-time college coaches and their booster and
                    media allies.
            In the late 1950s and 1960s coaches became even more brazen, and Thelin notes that in the Big Ten,
                    with sports scandals occurring at many schools, including Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , there was "an unmistakable tone of levity among coaches" in their
                    reactions to conference penalties (p. 161). (Only one coach in college sports history escapes the
                    author's disdain—Knute Rockne of Notre Dame—and, inexplicably, Thelin
                    accepts as proof of Rockne's character, the film Knute Rockne—All
                        American as well as a propaganda document on the coach-as-character-builder.)
            Intercollegiate athletics continued to expand in the 1970s, and abuses increased to the point where,
                    in 1980, they moved, to quote the chapter title, "From Sports Page to Front Page."
                    Again reformers suggested changes—the Knight Commission offered the most thoughtful
                    ones—but the college sports establishment had long ago learned how to "cool
                    out" and "wait out" all reform attempts. Thus, in the 1990s the problems,
                    particularly financial, mount, but the basic structure of college sports—the autonomy
                    that most universities allow their athletic departments—remains immutable. The only
                    possible agent of change lies outside the university—government agencies that might make
                    various demands upon athletic departments but probably will not.
            Finally, Thelin's chronicle of the failures of the attempts to reform intercollegiate
                    athletics and the "games colleges play" in burying those efforts is a profoundly
                    pessimistic book. However, any fan seriously interested in the reality of college sports will
                    benefit from reading it. But be warned: Games Colleges Play will not make watching the
                    "Hurryin’ Hoosiers" or most other college teams any easier.
            MURRAY SPERBER is associate professor of English and
                    American studies, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , and the author of College Sports Inc.: The Athletic Department us, the
                        University (1990) and Shake Down the Thunder: The Creation of Notre Dame
                        Football (1993).
         
         
         
            
               The Show Starts on the Sidewalk: An Architectural History of the Movie Theatre,
                        Starring S. Charles Lee. By Maggie Valentine. (
                        New Haven
                    , Conn.: Yale University Press, 1994. Pp. xiv, 231. Illustrations, figures, appendixes,
                    tables, notes, bibliography, index. $40.00.)
            No building type is more characteristically American than the movie theatre, and no movie theatre
                    architect is more representative than S. Charles Lee. Yet the title of this book must be taken
                    seriously, for it is not a broad survey but a history of the movie theatre examined through one
                    designer's work. Lee's theatres are located primarily in 
                        California
                    , and Valentine places his career squarely in the context of the 
                        Los Angeles
                     film industry and its business culture. That Hollywood manufactured a world of its own
                    in order to market its product to the largest number of consumers possible will surprise no one. The
                    extent to which an architect such as Lee could directly express corporate Hollywood's
                    values and manipulate the movie-going public may surprise many.
            Valentine demonstrates that the movie palace became a national form of architecture that supported a
                    distinctly American genre of entertainment for several decades. She traces the emergence of the
                    movie house from its origins in traditional theatre design, explaining the programmatic and
                    functional circumstances that made the film theatre unique. The evolution of movie theatre design
                    was intimately related to and driven by the artistic and technical development of film as an
                    entertainment medium. She argues convincingly that movies fulfilled deep psychological needs rooted
                    in American culture during the era from World War I until the second decade after World War II and
                    that movie theatres were intentionally conceived as extensions of that psychology.
            The movie palaces designed by Lee, whose career unfolded simultaneously with the emergence of popular
                    film, were integral to film as a medium and addressed quintessentially the psychology of film going.
                    Influenced initially by the architecture of other forms of popular entertainment such as the
                    nickelodeon and vaudeville, the movie theatre eventually developed an evocative typological
                    character of its own, invented and refined largely in Lee's work. His theatres initially
                    succeeded in attracting patrons to film as a novelty and later celebrated the fantasy and escape of
                    film as popular entertainment. After World War II his movie theatre designs reflected changes in the
                    economics of film distribution, economics that eventually forced film presenters into competition
                    with home entertainment.
            Well researched and well documented, the book draws artistic, technical, functional, marketing, and
                    even legal issues of the film industry into a reliable interpretation of the architectural settings
                    in which movies were shown. Valentine is not particularly critical  of the commercial film industry and its architectural patronage, noting
                    fairly dispassionately the antisemitism of Hollywood that caused Lee to change his name from Levi;
                    the profit motives of both architect and patron; and the tinsel culture of Hollywood altogether. The
                    book is nonetheless well written and generously illustrated with good photographs of movie theatres
                    in their original conditions. It is particularly accessible to nonspecialists who may be interested
                    in architecture but unfamiliar with its terminology, and it includes a useful bibliography of
                    sources for related reading and study.
            ROBERT BENSON is chair of the Department of Architecture,
                    Miami University, 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               , and architecture critic for the 
                        Cincinnati
                     Enquirer. His views on architecture appear in his collection Essays on
                        Architecture in the Midwest (1992) and in Architecture in 
                        Indianapolis
                     since 1975 (1993).
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
      
   
