
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 100, Issue 3, pages 215-290. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:100+issue:3+year:2004&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Violence and the Rights of African Americans in Civil War–Era Indiana
            The Case of James Hays
            RICHARD F. NATION
            In August 1859, an African–American man by the name of James Hays was attacked and
                    brutally beaten by a small group of 
                        Franklin County
                     white men, allegedly under the hire of George W. Kimble, Hays's employer. The
                    intention of the beating was to drive Hays from the neighborhood, forcing him to join the
                    substantial exodus of African Americans from 
                        Franklin County
                     and indeed from the whole of rural southern Indiana.1 While Hays
                    did move his family just across the county line into 
                        Fayette County
                    , he stood up to Kimble and his hired thugs, who faced not only criminal prosecution but
                    were forced to reply to the civil action Hays filed against them.
            In Indiana, African Americans were not welcome members of the social or political community. The few
                    rights they held under the law 
                  Richard E Nation is a professor of history at Eastern 
                                Michigan
                             University, Ypsilanti. The editors thank John Newman, director of information
                            management for the Indiana State Supreme Court and a 
                                Franklin County
                             historian, and Marlene Flaspohler, the 
                                Franklin
                             Circuit Court Clerk, for their services in obtaining illustrations for this
                            article.
                  
                     1 Bruce Bigelow, "The Cultural Geography of African Americans
                            in Antebellum Indiana," Black History News & Notes, 88
                            (May 2002), 4–7.
               
                     were constantly at risk of being denied by the racist practices
                    of European–American residents. The scale of legal limits imposed on African Americans
                    equaled or surpassed that of the neighboring states of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    , although there is some evidence that many of the laws were not enforced. The best
                    single measure of white feeling about African Americans occurred earlier in the 1850s, when Hoosiers
                    voted on a referendum regarding the exclusion of blacks from the state. Five–sixths voted
                    for it, and in 
                        Franklin County
                    , as in most of the southern third of the state, the anti–black position
                    gained over ninety percent of the vote. The story of Hays's beating, however, was more than
                    a simple tale of racial violence; it also involved sexual, party, and class politics. As we will
                    see, Kimble's determination to drive Hays from 
                        Franklin County
                     was motivated primarily by Kimble's relationship with Hays's wife,
                    Elizabeth. Further, Hays's ability to stand his ground derived from his unlikely alliance
                    with local Democratic leaders who sought to use the case to embarrass Kimble, a leader of the county
                    Republicans. Ultimately, Kimble's power to resist Hays's allegations rested not in
                    his role in the Republican party nor even in his racial identity, but in the power that his wealth
                    could buy. Yet to ignore the racial issue would be to overlook the central reason that Kimble chose
                    violence and, perhaps more important, the reason that he was able to find others willing to do this
                    deed. Taken together, these interwoven elements of James Hays's story highlight the complex
                    interplay of race, politics, gender, and class in Indiana on the eve of the Civil War.2
            
            That an antebellum Republican county leader would instigate violence against an African American
                    might not surprise those who know the period well; yet the response to this particular
                    act—Democrats coming to an African American's defense—certainly
                    requires reconsideration 
                  
                     2 Many of the laws restricting African Americans in early Indiana are
                            collected in Stephen Middleton, The Black Laws in the Old Northwest: A
                                Documentary History (
                                Westport
                            , Conn., 1993). For votes, see Charles Kettleborough, Constitution
                                Making in Indiana: A Source Book of Constitutional Documents with
                                Historical Introduction and Critical Notes; Vol. 2,1851–1916 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. 2; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 617–18. The classic work on the rights of African Americans
                            in the North is Leon E Litwack, North of Slavery: The Negro in the Free
                            States, 1790–1860 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1961). A recent book that focuses on intellectual history is James Oliver
                            Horton and Lois E. Horton, In Hope of Liberty: Culture, Community, and Protest
                                Among Northern Free Blacks, 1700–1860 (
                                New York
                            , 1997). Still useful for Indiana is Emma Lou Thornbrough, The
                                Negro in Indiana Before 1900: A Study of a Minority (1957; 
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1993). Joan E. Cashin provides a short introduction to the history of
                            African Americans in the region in "Black Families in the Old Northwest,"
                                Journal of the Early Republic, 15 (Fall 1995), 448–75.
                            Joanne Pope Melish's "The 'Condition' Debate and Racial
                            Discourse in the Antebellum North," Journal of the Early
                            Republic, 19 (Winter 1999), 651–72, is a good introduction to racial attitudes in
                            the North. For a history of
               
                     of the absolute quality of the racism often attributed to the
                    Democratic party in this era.
            To begin that process of rethinking such simple theses, this article examines closely the small
                    mysteries of individual lives such as Kimble's and Hays's.3
                    Much of what follows is cautious and tentative as a result of the gaps in the historical record. But
                    some of the evidence is clear. Democrats for a time supported an African–American man.
                    The evidence of sexual impropriety was sufficient grounds for divorce. And James Hays was beaten.
            The beating Hays received was severe. According to the original news–' paper
                    account, he received blows "on the head, body, and limbs with clubs and other
                    missiles," and his jaw was broken. He filed suit against Jacob Bickel, Joseph Wilson, James
                    Brison, Jr., and George W. Kimble, and eventually named as witnesses brothers John Daniels, Jr.,
                    Peyton Daniels, Richard Daniels, and their mother, Sarah Daniels, among others. Bickel was singled
                    out as the leader and most violent of the assailants. He had pretended to need Hays's help
                    with a sick horse and under that pretense led him to a wooded area where the beating took place,
                    with Bickel wielding the club that broke Hays's jaw: 
                        Not satisfied with this, Bickle [sic] was with difficulty prevented from cutting off the old
                            negro's head, and throwing his body into a log heap near by, to be consumed.
                     Fortunately for Hays, the others present were more restrained and "finally agreed
                    to grant him his life, if he would … never return to this part of the state."
                    Bickel evaded arrest but the other three defendants were 
                  two nearby black communities, see Stephen Vincent, Southern Seed, Northern
                                Soil: African–American Farm Communities in the Midwest,
                            1765–1900 (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1999). A close reading of race and the legal system that treats the
                            complexities added by class and gender in the postbellum South is Mary Frances Berry, The Pig Farmers Daughter and Other Tales of American Justice:
                                Episodes of Racism and Sexism in the Courts from 1865 to the
                            Present (
                                New York
                            , 1999), especially the title chapter. For race and violence in the antebellum
                            North, see Thomas P. Slaughter, Bloody Dawn: The Christiana Riot and
                            Racial Violence in the Antebellum North (
                                New York
                            , 1991).
                  
                     3 On the advantages and limits of this individualized approach, see
                            Richard D. Brown, "Microhistory and the Post–Modem Challenge,"
                                Journal of the Early Republic, 23 (Spring 2003), 1–20,
                            esp.7–9 and 16–19; and Jill Lepore, "Historians Who Love Too
                            Much: Reflections on Microhistory and Biography," Journal of American
                                History, 88 (June 2001), 129–44, esp.133.
               
                     incarcerated. The Daniels brothers, arrested at the same time,
                    volunteered to testify against the others and were released.4
            
            Hays was born in 
                        North Carolina
                     and came to Indiana between 1846 and 1849. By 1850, he had married Elizabeth, also a 
                        North Carolina
                     native, and their household included four children: Washington, Charles, Isham, and
                    Caroline, all but Isham born in 
                        North Carolina
                     as well.5 Hays's occupation was laborer, but he claimed
                    $200 worth of real property in 1850.6 He probably was doing better
                    than many of his neighbors, white or black, however. In 1860 he reported that he had slaughtered
                    $225 worth of livestock (probably most of it hogs he allowed to roam the unfenced lands);
                    his neighbors averaged less than $90/ The Posey Township neighborhood in which the Hayses
                    lived was relatively poor, with many landless residents, including six African–American
                    families living nearby, most from 
                        North Carolina
                    . This small community in southeastern Indiana stretched across the township line into
                    western Laurel Township, where five more black families lived.8
            
            This rural settlement clung to the steep hillsides of a country deeply notched by the branches of the
                    Whitewater River and its smaller tributaries, such as Little Sanes Creek. At one point the
                    surrounding hills rise 230 feet in the span of a quarter of a mile. It was not a landscape conducive
                    to 
                  
                     4 Allegation for assault and battery, November 18, 1859, Hays v. Kimble et al., 
                                Franklin County
                             Circuit Court Civil Records, February 1861, 
                                Franklin County
                             Courthouse, 
                                Brookville
                            , Indiana (hereafter cited as Hays v. Kimble et al.);
                            BroofeviUe 
                                Franklin
                             Democrat, August 26,1859; Plaintiff's Subpoena list, February 7,1860,
                            Hays v. Kimble et al.; Petition, 17 February 1860, Hays v. Kimble et al;
                            Affidavit for continuance, August 14, 1860, Hays v. Kimble et al.
                  
                     5 U. S., Seventh Census, 1850, Population Schedules for 
                                Franklin County
                            , Indiana, p. 404. Caroline is listed out of birth order, suggesting that she
                            was not a child of the couple. There is the vaguest reason to suspect that only Isham was
                            the child of both James and Elizabeth, as detailed below.
                  
                     6 There is no deed record of Hays owning property in 
                                Franklin County
                            .
                  
                     7 U. S., Eighth Census, 1860, Agriculture Schedules for 
                                Fayette County
                            , Indiana. The amount of livestock Hays slaughtered may have reflected his need
                            to pick up and move. To understand the magnitude of his slaughter, keep in mind that his
                            family, even before the separation, would have needed only about 1,600 pounds of meat, and
                            $225 would have represented more than 4,000 pounds. Indeed, converting everything
                            to corn bushel equivalencies–an assumption that to meet their dietary needs, they
                            bartered some of the meat for other foodstuffs–the Hays family would have
                            produced approximately 183 bushels of corn more than they needed to eat, a marketable
                            surplus that far surpassed many of their neighbors, especially those who were farmhands. See
                            Jeremy Atack and Fred Bateman, To Their Own Soil: Agriculture in the
                            Antebellum North (
                        Ames,
                                    Iowa
                     , 1987), 210,
                            293–94 n. 37.
                  
                     8 The largest population of African Americans in 
                                Franklin County
                             lived in Salt Creek Township just south of Laurel and Posey, but it seems to
                            have been a different community, with the bulk of the population originally from 
                                South Carolina
                            , whereas the Laurel–Posey community had a strong 
                                North Carolina
                             base.
               
                    
                    
                  Posey and Laurel Townships, 
                                Franklin County
                            , Indiana, 1876
                  Little Sanes Creek is indicated by the arrow. The spelling "Sains" is used
                            on some maps.
                  
                     Maps of Indiana Counties in 1876 … (1876; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968).
                the plow. Far below, the lands in the rich bottomland of the Whitewater were held by a
                    small number of prosperous farmers. There, the adjoining communities of Laurel, 
                        Somerset
                    , and Mt. 
                        Auburn
                     had prospered with the coming of the Whitewater Canal in the 1840s, while the top of
                    the ridge, which opened onto the vast 
                        Tipton
                     Till Plain of central Indiana, also held good opportunities for agriculture. Not so the
                    hills west of Laurel, the residents of which were, in the words of one of their defenders,
                    "of that class that make a living by labor," probably traveling either to the
                    bottomlands or to the plain to work on wealthier farms. It was these "Sanes
                    Creekers," as they were known, who several years earlier had been "rebuked by the
                    orderly and sober citizens of the township" after holding an anti–temperance
                        meeting.9
            
            
               
                  9 of 
                            Fayette
                        , Union and 
                            Franklin
                         Cos., Indiana (1867; 
                            Knightstown
                        , Ind., 1999); "Letter from Thomas B. Adams, Sanes Creek,
                        Indiana," 
                     
                                Brookville
                             Indiana American, May 25, 1855; and "Letter from
                        Citizens," ibid., March 24, 1855.
            
            
            Such was the reputation of the neighborhood in which the victim, some of the assailants, and many of
                    the witnesses lived. Assailants and witnesses generally shared two other things as well: They were
                    young and they were relatively poor.10
                    Thirty–two–year–old Joseph Wilson listed no occupation in the 1860
                    census, although he had appeared in 1850 as a carpenter. His 1860 wealth reflected the lack of a
                    job: $300 in personal property. His father, a 
                        North Carolina
                     native, had no property in 1850 and only $200 in real property plus
                    $200 in personal property in 1860. Of the Daniels brothers, only Richard remained in the
                    county after the crime, appearing in the census as a nineteen–year–old laborer
                    without any assets. Their mother, Sarah, also a witness for Hays, was Indiana–born and
                    twenty years the junior of their 
                        North Carolina
                    –born father, a reasonably well–off grocer and seller of alcoholic
                    spirits, who reported $1500 worth of assets in 1860. Two other witnesses, John and
                    Catherine Spear, were both about twenty years old and lived in a female–headed household
                    with only $200 in personal property. Their closest neighbors were two
                    African–American families. Another witness,
                    forty–four–year–old James Carpenter, was better off than most. He
                    had accumulated a small farm worth $200 and $200 in personal property 
                        Tennessee
                    –born Nancy Wallace, also a witness, had lived a life of deprivation with her
                    husband, David, a native of 
                        Virginia
                    , who, despite his sixty–one years, was still a farmhand with no property11 Witness Calvin Tucker, born in 
                        New York
                    , had left the county by 1860; ten years earlier, at the age of twenty–five,
                    he had owned no land but stood to inherit a great deal from his father.12
            
            While the streak of southern origin ran through this group, it reflected the fact that this portion
                    of 
                        Franklin County
                     had more southerners than the rest of the county; Jacob Bickel, the most vicious of the
                    assailants, was probably from a Pennsylvania family. Far more important than regional 
                  
                     10 Among the assailants, Jacob Bickel and James Brison, Jr., could not
                            be found (having apparently skipped the county along with several of the Daniels brothers),
                            which would explain why the case went forward against only Joseph Wilson and George Kimble
                            and which confirms James Hays's assertion that material witness John Daniels, Jr.,
                            was also unable to be called. Only Joseph Wilson remained to represent the assailants. (A
                            newspaper account gave the name as James Wilson, possibly the result of an erroneous
                            transcription of the abbreviation for Joseph, "Jos.," since James was
                            abbreviated "Jas.")
                  
                     11 1850, the Wallaces lived next door to Joseph Wilson, or rather,
                            next to his father's household.
                  
                     12 on assailants and witnesses is from U. S., Seventh Census, 1850,
                            Population Schedules for 
                                Franklin County
                            , Indiana; and U. S., Eighth Census, 1860, Population Schedules for
               
                     origin was the fact that these persons were young and poor;
                    while these two went hand in hand in an agricultural system where wealth was often a function of
                    age, many of these young men had fewer prospects than some of their neighbors of benefiting from the
                    assistance of fathers.13 They were a community of farm laborers, finding work on
                    the farms of their wealthier neighbors, much as James Hays did, but perhaps with even less success
                    than Hays had found. Without great prospects of climbing the agricultural ladder, these young farm
                    laborers found themselves dependent on the income and perhaps the will of the wealthier landowners.
            Such a landowner was Hays's employer, George W. Kimble, who in 1860 was the second
                    wealthiest man in Laurel Township, with assets of $16,000. Emigrating from 
                        Maryland
                     in 1816, he had first operated a mill in the 
                        Brookville
                     area, later settling near Laurel and managing his 528 acres of land, much of it on a
                    plateau above Little Sane's Creek. Employing his sons and poorer men like James Hays and
                    his neighbors, Kimble found time to dabble in Whig party politics (serving as 
                        Franklin County
                     recorder of deeds from 1834 to 1846) as well as in other civic affairs, including the
                    ill–fated 
                        Richmond
                     and 
                        Brookville
                     canal and the 
                        Franklin County
                     Agricultural Society. When the Whig Party disintegrated in the early 1850s, Kimble
                    became a Republican, and he continued to play a leading role in the party, serving on the Laurel
                    Township People's Party Committee of Vigilance in 1856. Although originating in the Know
                    Nothing movement in 1854, the People's Party had by 1856 become the Republican Party in
                    Indiana. The local party's platform, reflecting 
                        Franklin County
                    's large German Catholic population, stated that parties organized against
                    Catholic or the foreign–born "are neither justified by past history or future
                    prospects of the country, nor in unison with the spirit of toleration and enlarged freedom which
                    peculiarly distinguishes the American system of popular govt." Kimble put his efforts into
                    living up to these sentiments, participating in a failed attempt to recruit a German Lutheran pastor
                    to be the party's candidate for county treasurer. The overarching sentiment of the local
                    party was strongly Republican, including its fear of 
                  
                     
                                Franklin County
                            , Indiana. If the person reported in the 1860 census as Collins Tucker was
                            really Calvin Tucker–same township, same wife's name, same birthplace,
                            age one year off, wife's age two years off, wife's birthplace
                            different–then in 1860 he was a shoemaker with $400 of real property
                            and $100 of personal property.
                  
                     13 Jeremy Atack, "The Agricultural Ladder Revisited: A New
                            Look at an Old Question with Some Data 1860," Agricultural
                            History, 63 (Spring 1989), 1–25.
               
                     the "slave power": "It is a question
                    of whether the slave oligarchy shall rule, or whether the people–free people shall
                        govern."14
            
            Opposition to the slave power, did not, however, equate to abolitionism, most certainly not in 
                        Franklin County
                    
               15 In replying to Hays's civil suit, Kimble and Wilson
                    (Bickel and Brison having fled the county) argued on the basis of the U. S. Supreme Court's
                        Dred Scott decision that Hays had no standing to bring suit, based on the fact
                    that he was "a pure Negro of pure African blood–that he was born and raised in
                    the State of 
                        North Carolina
                    –that his ancestors were of pure African blood and were brought to this
                    country and sold as Negro slaves."16 Kimble and Wilson's
                    language thus echoed, almost to the word, John E A. Sanford's plea in abatement in the Dred Scott case. The Supreme Court had, in its 1857 decision, responded to such
                    language by asserting that even if Scott were in fact free and recognized by a state as its citizen,
                    he would still not be a citizen of the 
                        United States
                    —and would therefore have no standing to bring suit in federal court. To
                    buttress the point, Chief Justice Roger B. Taney provided evidence that even in the most
                    anti–slavery of northern states, the citizenship rights of African Americans were
                        limited.17
            
            Kimble and Wilson likewise maintained that Hays had no standing to bring suit in state court because
                    he was "not legally a citizen or inhabitant of this State and is not entitled to any right
                    under the Constitution and laws of Indiana." But they did not stop there. Before denying
                    Hays's allegations, they accused him of failing to register with the county clerk, as all
                    African Americans were required to do in Indiana, adding that he 
                  
                     14 U. S., Eighth Census, 1860, Population Schedules for 
                                Franklin County
                            , Indiana; U. S., Eighth Census, 1860, Agriculture Schedules for 
                                Franklin County
                            , Indiana; August J. Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana; Her Peoples, Industries, and Institutions (1915; reprint, 
                                Evansville
                            , Ind., 1971), 197, 204, 239, 259, 262, 934. For Republican party politics, see
                            William E. Gienapp, The Origins of the Republican Party,
                            1852–1856 (
                                New York
                            , 1987), 108–112, 284–86; and Broofeville Indiana American, June 27,1856. There are only scattered copies of Republican
                            newspapers from 
                                Franklin County
                             and the two neighboring counties for 1859 through 1861, which has made
                            investigation of this case one–sided.
                  
                     15 Eugene H. Berwanger, The Frontier Against Slavery:
                                Western Anti–Negro Prejudice and the Slavery Extension Controversy (1967; 
                                Urbana
                            , 111., 2002); and Eric Foner, Free Soil, Free Labor, Free Men: The
                                Ideology of the Republican Party Before the Civil War (
                                New York
                            , 1970). See also Gienapp, Origins of the Republican Party.
                  
                  
                     16 Answer of defendants, February 16, 1860, Hays v. Kimble et al.
                  
                     17 Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19 How.
                            393 (1857), 400,412–16. (Sanford's name was misspelled in the original
                            papers filed with the Supreme Court.) The standard work on the Dred Scott decision is Don E.
                            Fehrenbacher, The Dred Scott Case: Its Significance in American Law and
                                Politics (
                                New York
                            , 1978). Chief Justice Taney certainly here was thinking of 
                                Massachusetts
                             and a handful of
               
                     was therefore in the state illegally and could not sue.
                    Strangely, although Hays actually had been one of the first of a few and only African Americans in
                    the county to comply with this onerous law, his demurrer made no mention of it. Instead, he replied
                    that "the defendants' answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a good
                    defense to plaintiff's cause of action."18
            
            The defense's use of the Dred Scott decision caught the attention of the
                    local Democratic newspaper, which had reported the original beating under the headline of
                    "Disgraceful." Southern Indiana Democrats were primarily supporters of Stephen A.
                    Douglas and thus were uncomfortable with Dred Scott, although they remained
                    thoroughgoing racists in their defense of a white–ruled America.19
                    The 
                  
                            Franklin
                         Democrat endorsed the argument of Hays's counsels—leading
                    local Democrats—that "our constitution intended to afford protections to every
                    branch of the human family," for the state constitution seemed to afford remedies in law to
                    everyone, not merely citizens.20 The newspaper nevertheless took pains to
                    distinguish its stance from that of the radical abolitionists: 
                  other states that had given broader citizenship rights to African Americans, and he was
                            working to cut off any possibility that blacks from these states might be considered
                            citizens of the 
                                United States
                            . Taney did not offer examples of how northern states prevented free blacks from
                            filing lawsuits; after all, even slaveholding 
                                Missouri
                             had permitted Dred Scott to sue within its state courts.
                  
                     18 Answer of defendants, February 16, 1860, Hays v.
                            Kimble et al.; Register of Negroes and Mulat–toes in 
                                Franklin County
                             [Indiana],1852, photocopy (Genealogy Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); and Demurrer, February 17, 1860, Hays v. Kimble et al.
                  
                            
                        19 In the election of 1860, 
                                    Franklin County
                                 had 2,192 votes for Douglas compared to only 47 for Breckenridge; Lincoln
                                received 1,695 and Bell only 7 votes. Exactly half (184) of Laurel Township voters cast
                                their ballots for Douglas, with Lincoln gaining 177, while Posey was the star Republican
                                township in 
                                    Franklin County
                                , with Lincoln (126) getting twice the votes of Douglas (63) and
                                Breckenridge receiving eleven. Broofeville 
                           
                                        Franklin
                                     Democrat, November 9, 1860.
                            The racism of 
                                    Franklin County
                                 Democrats became more evident as the Civil War progressed. See, for
                                example, the Broofeville 
                           
                                        Franklin
                                     Democrat, April 17, 1863: "If to think a poor man is good
                                as a rich one, if to value a white man more than a negro, makes one a copperhead, then,
                                oh, but I'm a Copper." See also August 7, 1863, and
                                October 31, 1862.
                        
                  
                     20 One of Hays's original attorneys, D. D. Jones, served as
                            chair of the Democratic county convention in 1860, and the other, Henry Berry, would become
                            the clerk of the circuit court on the Democratic ticket. Hays obtained new counsels, one of
                            whom, Cyrus Kilgore, had been a candidate for the Democratic nomination for recorder at the
                            same convention. Kilgore's partner, U. V. Kyger, however, would in 1861 become
                            editor of a new Republican newspaper in 
                                Franklin County
                            . Kimble's attorneys were prominent Republican leaders George Holland
                            and C. C. Brinkley. See 
                                Franklin County
                            , Indiana, Circuit Court Order Book 13 (1857–1862),
                            295–296 (February 15–16, 1860), and 416 (February 5, 1861), 
                                Franklin County
                             Courthouse, 
                                Brookville
                            , Indiana; John W. Miller, Indiana Newspaper Bibliography (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1982), 119; and Broofeville Franfelin Democrat, June 1,
                            1860.
               
                    
                    
                        We confess that we do not sympathize, as abolitionists do, with the colored population; but,
                            at the same time, think it unjust to allow white men to oppress negroes with impunity. The
                            points in this case will be given, if a trial be had, which will show that to deny the right
                            of the plaintiff would be a moral outrage.21
                  
                     The trial was never held, but many of these points would be raised in a second lawsuit,
                    much to the delight of the 
                  
                            Franklin
                         Democrat in its campaign to embarrass Kimble.
            In the same court term in which James Hays filed suit against George Kimble and the others, he also
                    filed suit to divorce his wife, Elizabeth Hays, on the grounds, the 
                  
                            Franklin
                         Democrat reported, of adultery with a white man: 
                        The unenviable position in which we find an old citizen of this county placed in this
                            transaction, is very humiliating to those who have heretofore associated with him on terms
                            of intimacy. If the statements are true, and they bear truth on their face … we
                            regard it as unparalleled for brutishness and degradation. A regard for the feelings of the
                            relatives of this man is our excuse for not naming him out. Their hearts are already
                            lacerated and crushed at the recital of these outrages upon their feelings, and we have no
                            desire to reopen the torn and bleeding wounds again.
                     Appearing on the page opposite the report of Hays's case against Kimble, the
                    report of adulterous amalgamation was likely linked by many readers to the assault on Hays.22 Certainly the language served to inspire gossip and to motivate readers to
                    seek out the details that the newspaper was too sensitive to publish. Non–political local
                    news was rare in the 
                  
                            Franklin
                         Democrat, and the presence of this case in the newspaper's pages
                    underscored both its prominence and its probable connection to local politics.
            The first trial in the divorce case ended in a hung jury with ten of the twelve members voting to
                    find Elizabeth Hays guilty of adultery. The case was re–tried in the next term, and this
                    time the divorce was granted. The 
                  
                            Franklin
                         Democrat listed five divorces granted by the court that term, the first being
                    "James Hays vs. Elizabeth Hays (colored)—adultery with a white man,"
                    and in another column pointed to the list as evidence of the sad 
                  
                     21 Broofeville 
                        
                                    Franklin
                                 Democrat, February 24, 1860.
                  
                     22 Ibid.
               
                    
                    
                  Hays Divorce Proceedings
                  Civil Order Book 13, 
                                Franklin
                             Circuit Court.
                  Courtesy 
                                Franklin County
                             Court Clerks Office
                state of contemporary society.23 The editors' coy treatment
                    of the case pointed to their continued effort to embarrass Kimble and the Republican party without
                    transgressing propriety and embarrassing Kimble's wife, Mary.
            By the summer of 1860, before the divorce case had been settled, James Hays had moved himself and
                    five of the children to the next county. Isham (Isenn) remained in the household of another
                    African–American family, and only a George 
                        Washington
                    ?) Hays, about twenty and the only adult child, lived with his mother in a house two
                    houses away from Kimble.24
            
            
               
                  23 Ibid, March 2, 1860, and August 17, 1860.
               
                  24 U. S., Eighth Census, 1860, Population Schedules for 
                            Franklin County
                        , Indiana, pp. 131, 168. The Isham of the 1850 census and the Isenn of the 1860
                        census are apparently the same person, his name misspelled in the latter case. The question of
                        whether the 
                            Washington
                         Hays of the 1850 census was the George W. Hays of the 1860 census cannot be
                        resolved. (There is no record of what the "W." in George W. Kimble
                        represented.) But if they denoted the same person, the "new" name would
                        suggest that Elizabeth Hays and George W. Kimble had a relationship going back twenty years,
                        perhaps to before James and Elizabeth Hays were married. Although the 1850 census listed 
                            Washington
                        's birthplace as 
                            North Carolina
                        , the 1860 census gave George W.'s as Indiana, while the other two older
                        children, now in a different household, still gave 
                            North Carolina
                         as their birthplace.
            
            
            
               
                  
                            Franklin County
                         Courthouse, circa 1872. The courthouse was the site of the three concurrent legal
                        actions: James Hays's divorce proceedings against his wife, the grand jury
                        investigation of the men who beat him, and the civil case against them and Kimble, accused of
                        instigating the assaults.
               Atlas of 
                                Franklin
                             Co., Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1872).
            
            Missing from the newspaper accounts was any sense of who Elizabeth Hays was or why she committed
                        adultery25 That the first trial ended in a hung jury would suggest she
                    fought the divorce, perhaps to save her marriage but maybe just to get back hef children. Despite
                    Indiana's reputation in the late nineteenth century as a place for easy divorces, the
                    burden 
                  
                     25 "Unfortunately court papers for cases finished in the
                            August 1860 term of the court, including records of the divorce case and the grand
                            jury's activities, are missing.
               
                     of proof still rested with the plaintiff, in this case James
                        Hays.26 Given that Hays was Kimble's employee, Kimble may well have
                    coerced Elizabeth, but if so, then James's reaction to his wife's actions seems
                    harsh. Another possibility would also reflect poorly on James. Elizabeth may have sought protection
                    from an abusive husband. Kimble, with his 
                        Maryland
                     background, would have found the role of protector in keeping with the paternalism of
                    the master class. Alternatively, Elizabeth may have seen in Kimble a chance for a better life than
                    that of the wife of a farmhand. Or perhaps there was real affection in the relationship.
            The idea of real affection would have been particularly disturbing to the Democratic leaders of 
                        Franklin County
                    , who had become obsessively preoccupied with the sexual issue to the exclusion of the
                    assault. This fixation was more than mere prurient sensationalism on the part of northern Democrats,
                    because sexual mixing lay at the heart of their fears of the Republican program. Amalgamation of the
                    races would blur the lines that distinguished those who could embrace liberty–white
                    men–from those who were by their very nature marked as a lesser people incapable of
                    liberty. Just days before the Hays beating, African–American abolitionist Frances Ellen
                    Watkins had spoken in 
                        Franklin County
                    . The 
                  
                            Franklin
                         Democrat praised her style but damned her message: "She is a true
                    Republican on the nigger question." Especially troubling to the editors was the rumor that
                    she had become angry "at not being sat at the first table at the Valley House."27 The demand by blacks for such equal treatment was considered by Democrats to
                    be among the gravest dangers posed by Republican control. To be able to point to an active local
                    Republican who was sexually intimate with an African–American woman gave credence to
                    Democratic racist demagoguery that the Republicans intended to destroy the distincions between the
                    races.
            Yet Kimble's willingness to use violence without fear of retaliation 
                  
                     26 Norma Basch says that "Indiana developed grounds and
                            procedures so elastic as to become the first divorce mill of the nineteenth
                            century." Basch, Framing American Divorce: From the Revolutionary
                                Generation to the Victorians (Berkeley, Calif, 1999), 8. Basch notes
                            (p. 93) an interesting debate between Horace Greeley and one of the authors of the Indiana
                            divorce law, Robert Dale Owen, in the New York Herald in April and May of
                            1860.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            
                        
                                    Franklin
                                 Democrat, August 12, 1859. While a notable abolitionist before the
                            war, Watkins, under the name Frances Ellen Watkins Harper, became even more famous after the
                            war in reform circles and as a literary figure. On the issue of racial mixing, see Leonard
                            L. Richards, "Gentlemen of Property and Standing":
                            Anti–Abolition Mobs injacksonian America (
                                New York
                            , 1970), 44–45. See also Jean H. Baker, Affairs of
                                Party: The Political Culture of Northern Democrats in the Mid–Nineteenth
                                Century (
                                Ithaca
                            , N. Y., 1983), esp. chapters 5 and 6; and David Roediger, The
                                Wages of Whiteness: Race and the Making of the American Working
                            Class (
                                London
                            , 1991).
               
                     underscored the point that even Republicans embraced the
                    privileges of race. And Kimble may well have benefited from notions of white male equality when he
                    recruited his thugs to drive Hays from the county. Hays was, after all, more successful in some ways
                    than his assailants were—a fact that may have contributed to Jacob Bickel's
                    extreme violence against him. It seems unlikely that these men were unaware of Kimble's
                    sexual liaisons with Elizabeth Hays, so their willingness to help Kimble procure a permanent
                    relationship with Elizabeth also points to a white, male perception of African–American
                    women as sexual servants of white men.28 Although Democrats feared that
                    Republicans threatened the equality of all white men, elite whites like Kimble had sometimes found
                    in such a doctrine a useful means of forming alliances with poorer whites like James Hays's
                        assailants.29
            
            James Hays's first attempt to divorce Elizabeth had ended in failure when many of the
                    witnesses ignored their subpoenas and remained home, failing to testify. These same individuals were
                    called as witnesses in the criminal case, and here again they simply failed to show. The results
                    were a hung jury in the divorce case, no trial in the civil case, and no decision by the grand jury
                    in the criminal matter. An angry grand jury indicted five of the witnesses—James
                    Carpenter, Nancy Wallace, Calvin Tucker, Catharine Spear, and Sarah Daniels—for
                    "failing and refusing to obey the process of subpoena and to appear before the Grand Jury
                    of 
                        Franklin County
                    ." In the August term, Spear and Daniels were discharged from the indictment
                    and given a dollar a day plus mileage for attending the court and apparently testifying in the
                    divorce suit, making possible its completion. It is perhaps permissible to speculate that these two
                    female witnesses, both of them related to men who continued to evade testifying, were 
                  
                     28 lt may be telling that several of the assailants had southern
                            roots. The historical literature on this subject focuses on the South and slavery. See
                            Brenda Stevenson, Life in Black and White: Family and
                                Community in the Slave South (
                                New York
                            , 1996); Victoria E. Bynum, Unruly Women: The Politics of Social
                                and Sexual Control in the Old South (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N. C, 1992); and Deborah Gray White, Ar'n't I a
                                Woman?: Female Slaves in the Plantation South (
                                New York
                            , 1985).
                  
                     29 The history of these kinds of relationships dates from the colonial
                            period, as evidenced in Edmund S. Morgan, American Slavery, American Freedom:
                                The Ordeal of Colonial
                            
                                Virginia
                             (
                                New York
                            , 1975); and Kathleen M. Brown, Good Wives, Nasty Wenches, and Anxious Patriarchs: Gender, Race, and Power in Colonial
                            
                                Virginia
                             (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N. C, 1996). This bonding on the basis of white manhood seems to emanate from
                            the poorer classes as a claim of their equality with all white men, as evidenced by
                            Roediger's Wages of Whiteness. Stephanie McCurry's
                            Masters of Small Worlds: Yeoman Households, Gender Relations, and the
                            Political Culture of the Antebellum 
                                    South Carolina
                                 Low Country (
                                New York
                            , 1995) demonstrates that this claim was not always to the liking of elites.
                            These works make it clear that the rising egalitarianism of white manhood forced
               
                     outraged by what George Kimble had done to his wife, thus
                    prompting them to provide testimony enablingjames Hays to win his divorce suit. In the same session,
                    Calvin Tucker and James Carpenter were found guilty of evading a subpoena, not in the grand jury
                    investigation nor in Hays's civil action against Kimble, but in the divorce suit. Kimble
                    posted Tucker and Carpenter's replevin bond for the costs incurred in evading the subpoena,
                    a fact suggesting that Kimble may have been behind all of the absences. The other male witnesses
                    (Nancy Wallace disappeared from the record) continued to avoid efforts to round them up, forcing
                    Hays to ask for a continuance in his civil action: "He has been informed and believes that
                    Geo. W. Kimble, one of the above defendants, has induced and hired the said witnesses to absent
                    themselves so that service of subpoena could not be had upon them to appear as witnesses,"
                    read the affidavit for continuance. John Daniels, Jr., apparently had moved to 
                        Iowa
                    . The other sons of Sarah Daniels, Peyton and Richard, evidently eluded subpoena
                    servers, as did Catharine Spear's brother, John. The continuance was granted, but Hays
                    appeared before the court again in 1861 to ask for another continuance. John Daniels, Jr., was still
                    not available. The continuance was denied, and Hays, defeated, moved for dismissal of his civil
                    suit. Moreover, the grand jury never returned an indictment in the criminal case. Thus the outcome
                    of the three legal cases was that Hays won his divorce but nothing more.30
            
            Without the testimony of white men, James Hays was unable to pursue his suit because he was barred by
                    Indiana law from testifying himself in a case to which whites were a party. While Hays's
                    statements may have provided the basis for the original indictment by the justice of the peace,
                        
                  elites to make concessions to ordinary white men in order to consolidate some aspects of
                            power over women and racial minorities (and ultimately, I would argue, over ordinary white
                            men). The applicability of these studies for the North is suggested by Roediger's
                                Wages of Whiteness, but see also James Brewer Stewart, "The
                            Emergence of Racial Modernity and the Rise of the White North,
                            1790–1840," with replies by Jean R. Soderlund, James Oliver Horton, and
                            Ronald Walters, Journal of the Early Republic, 18 (Spring 1998),
                            181–236; Roediger, "The Pursuit of Whiteness: Property, Terror, and
                            Expansion, 1790–1860," Journal of the Early Republic,
                            19 (Winter 1999), 579–600; Jon Gjerde, "'Here in America there
                            is neither king nor tyrant': European Encounters with Race,
                            'Freedom,' and Their European Pasts," Journal of the
                                Early Republic, 19 (Winter 1999), 673–90; and Stewart,
                            "Modernizing 'Difference': The Political Meanings of Color in the
                            Free States, 1776–1840," Journal of the Early
                            Republic, 19 (Winter 1999), 691–712.
                  
                     30 list, February 7, 1860, Hays v. Kimble et al.;
                            Petition, February 17, 1860, Hays v. Kimble et al.; Affidavit for
                            continuance, August 14,1860, Hays v. Kimble et al.; [
                                Franklin County
                            , Indiana, Circuit Court] Order Book 13 (1857–1862), 318 (February
                            22, 1860), 379–380 (August 14,1860), and 439 (February 7, 1861); Affidavit for
                            Continuance, August 14,1860, Hays v. Kimble et al.; and Affidavit for
                            Continuance, February 5, 1861, Hays v. Kimble et al.
               
                     they could not be used in court. Therefore, he needed the
                    assistance of the Daniels brothers who had assaulted him. Of course, as hearsay, Hays's
                    testimony probably would have been insufficient to find Kimble guilty, but Joseph Wilson might have
                    been forced to pay for his sins. Despite the obvious lack of justice in the case, Hays's
                    Democratic defenders never accused Kimble of corrupting the system. They were too enmeshed in the
                    system of white privilege and indeed were the authors of the very measure that had prevented Hays
                    from testifying against Kimble and Wilson.31
            
            Hays proved powerless to protect his person; what legal power he did have came from the involvement
                    of 
                        Franklin County
                     Democrats, and their interests focused more on embarrassing Kimble and the Republican
                    Party than on helping Hays. The only arena in which Hays prevailed was in divorcing his wife. In
                    this conflict between members of the same race, male privilege won, despite Elizabeth's
                    relationship with a powerful white man. Even with assistance from whites, neither Elizabeth nor
                    James Hays could transcend the traditional racial and gender structures of society. The
                    defendants' decision to base their defense on the Dred Scott ruling
                    reflected more than just legal opportunism; in their willingness to wage violence against James
                    Hays, as in their confidence in evading its legal consequences, Kimble and his thugs had proven that
                    Hays "had no rights which the white man was bound to respect."32
            
            
               
                  31 Middleton, Black Laws, 246; Thornbrough, Negro in Indiana, 123.
               
                  32 Scott v. Sandford, 407. Some have argued that Taney
                        has been unfairly attacked for this choice of words, noting that his specific point was that at
                        the time of the writing of the Constitution, peoples of African descent had no such rights. This
                        assertion itself was incorrect, as Justice Benjamin R. Curtis remarked in dissent. But
                        Fehrenbacher answers the claims that Taney was unfairly attacked by pointing out that
                        Taney's purpose in putting forward this assertion was to argue that under the
                        Constitution, without any new amendments extending rights, African Americans could have no more
                        rights in 1857 than they held in 1789. Fehrenbacher, Dred Scott Case,
                    348.
            
         
         
         
            "Go West, young man!" —An Elusive Slogan
            THOMAS FULLER
            It was the motto of nineteenth–century America, the watchword of Manifest Destiny:
                    "Go West, young man!" Although it is commonly attributed to 
                        New York
                     newspaper editor Horace Greeley, works of reference give the exhortation confusing and
                    contradictory origins.1 One of our most familiar historical slogans surely
                    deserves more careful documentation 
                  
                            Thomas Fuller is an attorney in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                . He wishes to acknowledge the assistance of 
                                    Georgia
                                 Higley of the Newspaper and Current Periodical Reading Room at the Library
                                of Congress in 
                                    Washington, D.C.
                                ; Nancy Sherrill, genealogy reference librarian at the 
                                    Vigo County
                                 Library in 
                                    Terre Haute
                                , Indiana; Al Jones, professor emeritus of history at Grinnell College in
                                        
                           Grinnell, Iowa
                        ; the reference librarians of the Indiana
                                State Library in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana; Tim Johnson and Dennis Lien of the University of 
                                    Minnesota
                                 Libraries in 
                           Minneapolis,
                                        Minnesota
                        ; Sarah DeSanctis
                                of the University of 
                                    Rochester
                                 in 
                           Rochester, New York
                        ; Kevin Leonard, Archivist
                                at Northwestern University in 
                           Evanston,
                                        Illinois
                        ; Walter J. Podrazik
                                of the Heartland Historical Research Service in 
                           Chicago, Illinois
                        ; John Dyson of Indiana University in 
                                    Bloomington
                                , Indiana; Patrick Kalahar of The Story Shop in 
                                    Elwood
                                , Indiana; Jay Dillon of Jay Dillon Rare Books and Manuscripts in
                                        
                           Monmouth Beach, New Jersey
                        ; and Catherine Rod,
                                Archivist of the Grinnell College Library in 
                           Grinnell, Iowa
                        .
                            Research for this article was inspired by a request from Fred Shapiro for verification of
                                an entry in his forthcoming book, "The Yale Dictionary of Quotations."
                                He has graciously agreedUo publish the article's findings in his book.
                        
                  
                     1 See, for example, Justin Kaplan, gen. ed., Bartlett's Familiar Quotations (
                                New York
                            , 2002), 489, 503 (espousing the John B.L. Soule theory discussed herein);
                            Elizabeth Knowles, ed., The 
                        
                                    Oxford
                                 Dictionary of Quotations (
                                Oxford
                            , 1999), 351, 544 (Horace Greeley's Hints Toward
                            Reforms, and Soule); Stuart Berg Flexner, I Hear America Talking (
                                New York
                            , 1976), 180 (Greeley in an 1865 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Tribune article, and Soule); Henry Luther Stoddard, Horace Greeley: Printer, Editor, Crusader (
                                New York
                            , 1946), 93 (Greeley editorial in The New–Yorker).
                            Instances could be multiplied.
               
                    
                    
                  Horace Greeley
                  Greeley, editor of the 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Tribune, is widely credited with coining the phrase, "Go
                            West, young man!" in an 1865 editorial.
                  Courtesy Library of Congress, Prints and Photographs Division
                than it has yet received. To that end, I have thoroughly investigated the history of the
                    phrase. This article briefly describes one aspect of my research that may interest Indiana
                    historians: the truth behind a widely held belief that the phrase was originally written by John
                    Babson Lane Soule (1815–1891), an Indiana newspaper editor, in an editorial in the 
                  
                            Terre Haute
                         Daily Express in 1851.2 I have examined this assertion
                    with some care and have concluded that it is a fiction dating in print to no earlier than 1890.
                    Before that date, the primary–source historical 
                  
                     2 Anyone with evidence bearing directly on the Soule attribution is
                            encouraged to contact the author in care of the editor. I would, of course, gladly receive
                            communications and inquiries on other aspects of the research as well.
               
                    
                    
                  John Babson Lane Soule Some claimed that Soule, rather than Greeley, first
                            uttered "Go West, young man!" while serving as editor of the 
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Daily Express. Soule later became a professor of ancient languages at
                            Blackburn University (now Blackburn College) in 
                        Carlinville, Illinois
                     , where he was also a Presbyterian minister.
                  Courtesy Blackburn College Archives
                record contains not a shred of evidence that Soule had anything to do with the phrase.
            The earliest printed account of the Soule story yet found appears on page two of the June 30, 1890,
                    issue of the 
                  
                            Chicago
                         Mail. The story bears no headline and no byline. It is the third of three
                    short articles under the general column heading "Club Man's Gossip," a
                    daily collection of unattested but entertaining tales. In its entirety, the item reads: 
                        "Do you know," said an old–timer at the 
                                Chicago
                             club, "that that epigrammatic bit of advice to young men, 'Go
                            west,' so generally attributed to Horace Greeley, was not original with him? No?
                            Well,  it wasn't. It all came about this way:
                            John L.B. Soule was the editor of the 
                                Terre Haute
                             Express back in the 50's, and one day in '51, if I remember
                            right, he and Dick Thompson were conversing in the former's sanctum. Thompson had
                            just finished advising Soule to go west and grow up with the country and was praising his
                            talents as a writer.3
                  
                        "'Why, John,' he said, 'you could write an article that
                            would be attributed to Horace Greeley if you tried.'
                        "'No, I couldn't,' responded Mr. Soule, modestly,
                            'I'll bet I couldn't.'
                        "'I'll bet a barrel of flour you can if you'll promise to
                            try your best, the flour to go to some deserving poor person.'
                        "'All right. I'll try,' responded Soule.
                        "He did try, writing a column editorial on the subject of discussion—the
                            opportunities offered to young men by the west. He started in by saying that Horace Greeley
                            could never have given a young man better advice than that contained in the words,
                            'Go West, young man.'
                        "Of course, the advice wasn't quoted from Greeley, merely compared to what
                            he might have said. But in a few weeks the exchanges began coming into the Express office with the epigram reprinted and accredited to Greeley almost
                            universally. So wide a circulation did it obtain that at last the 
                                New York
                            
                            Tribune came out editorially, reprinted the Express
                            article, and said in a foot note:
                        "'The expression of this sentiment has been attributed to the editor of the
                                Tribune erroneously. But so heartily does he concur in the advice it
                            gives that he indorses most heartily the epigrammatic advice of the 
                                Terre Haute
                             Express and joins in saying, 'Go west, young man, go
                                west.'"4
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  3 Thompson (1809–1900) was a member of the U. S. House of
                        Representatives from Indiana, 1840–1843, and 1847–1849. He also served as
                        U. S. Secretary of the Navy, 1877–1881.
               
                  4 This version was reprinted almost verbatim in William S. Walsh, Handy–Book of Literary Curiosities (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1892), 1083–84, apparently its earliest appearance in book form. The
                        quotation marks in the quoted passage are as they appear in the original, as is the reversal of
                        Soule's middle initials.
            
            
            The 
                  
                            Terre Haute
                            Wabash
                         Weekly Express, one of the papers that Soule had edited in 1851, reprinted the
                    tale in its July 18,1890, edition, beneath the headlines: "NEWS ROUND ABOUT TOWN. The
                    Express Originated the Phrase Generally Credited to Greeley. JOHN L. B. SOULE WROTE 'GO
                    WEST YOUNG MAN.' Colonel Thompson's Part in the Incident–Other Local
                    News."
            At the conclusion of the story, which the paper correctly attributed to the Mail,
                    the editors added: 
                        Colonel Thompson was shown the above last night. He said that he did not remember the
                            incident, but frequently he advised Mr. Soule to seek a wider field for his abilities. Mr.
                            Soule is now living at 
                                Evanston
                            , 111., where for a number of years he was professor in the college there.5
                  
                    
            
            If this story is true (a proposition that Thompson's recollection gives ample reason to
                    doubt), we ought to be able to find both the original editorial and Greeley's reprint.
                    There is no independent evidence, however, that either ever existed.
            The 
                  
                            Terre Haute
                         Daily Express and its sister publication the 
                  
                            Wabash
                         Weekly Express, including the issues published during 1851, are held by the
                    Indiana State Library (ISL). Some issues are also available on microfilm in the Library of Congress.
                    Both were edited by Soule in 1851. On two separate occasions the 1851 issues at the ISL were
                    searched for Soule's editorial; both searches proved fruitless. The first, undertaken in
                    1948, is evidenced only by a note in the library's files from an unnamed researcher that he
                    or she could find no evidence of the phrase in that year's issues. The second was
                    undertaken in 1988 byjohn L. Selch, then the ISLs newspaper librarian. A memo by Selch in the
                    library's files reads as follows (the bracketed sic insert is mine; the
                    bracketed "are" insert is Selch's): 
                        John B.L. Soule served as editor of the 
                                Terre Haute
                             Daily Express Aug. 25, 1851 (V. 1 # 91) to Aug. 31, 1851 (V 1 #149)
                            [sic— probably October 31] and Weekly 
                                Wabash
                             Express Aug. 27, 1851 
                        
                           5
                           
                                        Terre Haute
                                        Wabash
                                     Weekly Express, July 18, 1890.
                     
                             (V 10 #37) to Nov. 5,1851 (V 10 #46). Mr. David
                            Danaldson owned the papers and employed Mr. Soule as editor and Isaac 
                                Brown
                             as printer. The daily edition was not a success financially and Mr. Danaldson
                            closed the daily edition on Oct. 31, 1851, but continued to publish the Weekly 
                                Wabash
                             Express.6
                  
                    
            
            The citation I believe to be the origin of Greeley's reputed remark is as follows: 
                        The 
                                Oregon
                             fever has broken out in 
                                Iowa
                             and large numbers of 
                                Iowa
                             farmers there [are] anxious to sell out and "go west."
                     This item appears as one in a column of short items that can best be described as
                    "filler." The item immediately preceding it reads: "J. Smead, Esq., of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , has contributed a thousand dollars to the 'Kossuth Fund.'"
                    Following it one reads that "The widow of Lopez is at present in 
                        Paris
                    , having been separated from him for a long time. She belongs to a wealthy family in 
                        Cuba
                    ."7
            
            By no stretch of the imagination could this be described as a "column editorial,"
                    as the 
                  
                            Chicago
                         Mail story suggests. Greeley is absent, though the original story says he was
                    mentioned. There is no discussion of "the opportunities offered to young men by the
                    West," nor is "go west" followed by the crucial "young
                    man." Finally, it is hard to imagine that this sentence was anywhere near
                    Greeley–ish enough to win the bet with Thompson.
            It is implausible that a single–sentence item in the 
                  
                            Terre Haute
                         Daily Express and the 
                  
                            Wabash
                         Weekly Express, which happens to include the words "go
                    west," is the true origin of the phrase "Go west, young man!" or one of
                    its variations. It is inconceivable that Greeley would reprint this single sentence and then append
                    the supposed footnote. This item bears little resemblance to the scenario described in the original
                    story and cannot be what the author of that story was referring to. And there is no other
                        candidate.8
            
            
               
                  6 "
                            Vigo County
                         Newspaper History," in the custody of Darrol Pierson, Indiana State
                        Library.
               
                  7
                        
                     
                                Terre Haute
                             Daily Express, Oct. 23,1851, p. 2, c. 4, and the Weekly 
                                Wabash
                             Express, Oct. 24,1851, p. 2, c. 3.
               
                  8 It is worth adding that both the Indiana State Library in 
                            Indianapolis
                         and the 
                            Vigo County
                         Library in 
                            Terre Haute
                         maintain a file of items relating to this editorial. Librarians and researchers at
                        both sites have searched their records off and on for many years, and neither library has
                        located anything about the Soule story that predates 1890.
            
            
            The other end of the trail has also proved fruitless. Only one of the fourteen biographies of Greeley
                    and numerous reference works that I scoured even purports to give a primary–source
                    citation to Greeley's supposed protestations in the 
                  
                            New York
                         Tribune: Glyndon van Deusen's Horace Greeley:
                        Nineteenth–Century Crusader (
                        Philadelphia
                    , 1953). 
                        Van
                     Deusen briefly asserts (p. 173) that an 1851 Soule editorial in the 
                  
                            Terre Haute
                         Daily Express was the original source of "Go West, young
                    man!" His footnote (p. 176, n. 44) cites the September 1853 issues of the 
                  
                            New York
                         Tribune, "passim." Two careful searches through every
                    September 1853 issue of the Tribune have yielded no mention of Soule, "Go
                    West, young man!," the 
                  
                            Terre Haute
                         Daily Express, the 
                  
                            Wabash
                         Weekly Express, or anything else remotely relevant to the topic.9
            
            I submit that the 1890 article is most plausibly interpreted as a fiction intended to entertain the
                    readers of the 
                  
                            Chicago
                         Mail. That article is the only known source of the Soule theory outside of a
                    secondary work of reference. To put the matter in the starkest possible terms, we have on the one
                    hand a mass of primary authority from which Soule is consistently and conspicuously absent, and on
                    the other hand a single anonymous account of an unnamed individual telling the Soule story (with
                    verbatim quotations from a conversation and two newspaper articles) in an unnamed bar somewhere in 
                        Chicago
                     forty years after the fact. It is also a story that one of its two principal actors did
                    not confirm.
            So is Greeley the source after all? Probably, but proof is maddeningly elusive. I have not been able
                    to find any writing by Greeley where this exact phrase appears. Suzanne Schulze, author of Horace Greeley: A Bio–Bibliography, who has read perhaps more of
                    Greeley's writings than any person alive, told me that she might have seen the phrase
                    somewhere therein, but was not sure; and she could not give a citation to any particular work.10
            
            Part of the reason for the endurance of the attribution of this well 
                  
                     9
                            
                                Van
                             Deusen also cites Bartlett's Familiar Quotations and
                            the "Harrison Howard correspondence," also "passim."
                            Greeley's correspondence with Harrison Howard is in the Collection of Regional
                            History at Cornell University, with copies at the University of 
                                Rochester
                            . These letters are also devoid of anything relevant. It is significant that
                            Soule finds no mention in Greeley's autobiography, Recollections of a
                                Busy Life (
                                New York
                            , 1868). Biographies of Soule are also silent about the slogan. See George
                            Bancroft Griffith, ed., The Poets of 
                                    Maine
                                
                      (
                        Portland, Maine
                     , 1888), 183; G. T. Ridlon Sr., A
                            Contribution to the History, Biography and Genealogy of the Families Named
                                Soule, Sowle and Soulis (2 vols., 
                        Lewiston, Maine
                     ,
                            1926), vol. 1.
                  
                     10 Schulze, Horace Greeley: A
                            Bio–Bibliography (
                                New York
                            , 1992); Schulze, telephone conversation with author, October 19, 2002.
               
                     worn phrase to Greeley is its closeness to his actual writings.
                    Among the quotes that most nearly match it are the following, all written by Greeley: 
                        We earnestly urge upon all such [returning Civil War veterans] to turn their faces Westward
                            and colonize the public lands.11
                  
                        O, deceive not yourselves thus, young men! To the rightly constituted Man, there always is,
                            there always must be, opportunity.12
                  
                        Fly, scatter through the country—go to the Great West.13
                  
                        I hold that tens of thousands, who are now barely holding on at the East, might thus place
                            themselves on the high road to competence and ultimate independence at the West.14
                  
                    
            
            Finally, James Parton's The Life of Horace Greeley, Editor of the 
                            New York
                         Tribune (1855) quotes the editor (without citation) as saying: 
                        'I want to go into business,' is the aspiration of our young men.
                            … 'Friend,' we answer to many,… 'turn your
                            face to the Great West, and there build up a home and fortune.'15
                  
                    
            
            The earliest printed occurrence of the actual phrase so far discovered is found in the August 20,
                    1870, issue of the magazine Pulchinello, in a piece titled "The Mystery
                    of Mr. E. Drood: An Adaptation," by Orpheus C. Kerr: 
                        As for you, an American boy, why don't you go to h—I mean to the West.
                                Go West, young man! Buy a good, stout farming outfit, two 
                        
                           11 The Homestead Act" (editorial), 
                              
                                            New York
                                         Tribune, July 13, 1865.
                        
                           12 Horace Greeley, Hints Toward Reforms in
                                        Lectures, Addresses, and Other Writings (
                                        New York
                                    , 1850), 146.
                        
                           13 Horace Greeley, "The Prospects of
                                    Industry," The New–Yorker (June 3, 1837), 169.
                                    The context of the advice was not opportunities in the West but the collapse of 
                                        New York
                                     City's economy.
                        
                           14 Horace Greeley,
                                    "Migration—Colonization—Homes," Wood's Household Magazine (May 1872), 209–11.
                        
                           15 James Parton, The Life ofHorace Greeley,
                                        Editor of the 
                                            New York
                                         Tribune (
                                        New York
                                    , 1855), 413–14.
                     
                             or three serviceable horses, or mules, a portable house
                            made in sections, a few cattle, a case of fever medicine and then go out to the far West
                            upon Government–land. You'd better go to one of the hotels for
                            to–night, and then purchase Mr. GREELEYs What I Know About Farming, and start as
                            soon as the snow permits in the morning.16
                  
                    
            
            This source, as can be seen, does not directly attribute the quotation to Greeley. The earliest such
                    attribution found so far appears in the June 29, 1872, edition of Harper's
                        Weekly, in an article by Max Adeler entitled "America's Battle of
                    Dorking; or, H.G. at the White House." The article, a satirical piece of "future
                    history" in which the author describes "the events which immediately preceded the
                    destruction of the once great American Union," includes the following passage: 
                        In the fall of 1872 Horace Greeley, the editor of a newspaper in 
                                New York
                            , was elected President of the 
                                United States
                            . … He believed, among other things, that every man ought to go West
                            to earn his bread, and long before he was chosen President he used to advise everybody to
                            move to that region as a cure for all the disasters that could befall the human family.
                            … [W]hen the French Minister came to Greeley to present his credentials, the
                            President, who was writing an editorial at the time, not comprehending the French language,
                            mistook the ambassador for a beggar, and without looking up, handed him a quarter and an
                            order for a clean shirt, and said to him, "Go West, young man—go
                                West!"17
                  
                    
            
            In my view, the earliest reliably documented instance in which Greeley appears to have used the
                    phrase was September 1853, as recorded byjosiah Bushnell Grinnell (1821–1891). Grinnell
                    was an abolitionist Congregational minister who preached for a time in 
                        Washington, D. C.
                    , where he met Greeley. The two became lifelong friends and correspondents. In 1854,
                    Grinnell went to 
                        Iowa
                     and founded the town that is named for him. He also served as a U. S. representative
                    from 
                        Iowa
                     from 1863 to 1867.
            
               
                  16 Orpheus C. Kerr, "The Mystery of Mr. E. Drood: An
                        Adaptation," Pulchinello (August 20,1870), 323.
               
                  17 Max Adeler (pen name for Charles Heber Clark),
                        "America's Battle of Dorking; or, H.G. at the White House," Harper's Weekly Qune 29, 1872), 517.1 am indebted to Fred Shapiro for
                        locating these Pulchinello and Harper's Weekly
                        references.
            
            
            
               Josiah Bushnell Grinnell
               Grinnell, an abolitionist Congregational minister, claimed that Greeley first exhorted young men
                        to go west in September 1853.
               Courtesy Library of Congress, Prints and Photographs Division
            
            Grinnell claimed all his life that he had moved to 
                        Iowa
                     in response to Greeley's express urging to "Go West, young
                    man!" He first recorded the claim for the date of September 1853 in writing in his
                    autobiography, Men and Events oj Forty Years (1891).18 have looked extensively into the facts surrounding this claim, and while the
                    details of that research are beyond 
                  
                     18 Josiah Bushnell Grinnell, Men and Events of Forty Years (
                                Boston
                            , 1891), 86–87 and 220.
               
                    
                    
                  Sheet music for "Go West, Young Man Go West," by George
                            Maywood,
                  Published by Ditson and Company of 
                                New York
                             City in 1872.
                  Courtesy Library of Congress, Prints and Photographs Division
                the scope of this article, I have satisfied myself that Grinnell's account should
                    be credited.
            "Go West, young man!" is associated so firmly with Horace Greeley that it is
                    impossible to suppose that he did not repeat it many times over and in many contexts. The Harper's Weekly article quoted above strongly suggests that by 1872 he
                    had been saying it for many years. From the  evidence we have,
                    it appears that John Soule had nothing whatsoever to do with the phrase (or with Greeley); that no
                    researcher has yet been able to locate an instance of the phrase in any of Greeley's
                    written works; and that the Grinnell account records Greeley's earliest known use of the
                    phrase.
            Having reviewed the sources described above and many others, I believe that much of the difficulty
                    surrounding the quotation arises because 150 years later we are focusing on the exact wording, which
                    seems to have mattered far less to Greeley and his contemporaries. What was important to them was
                    the visionary ideal of westward expansion. The phrase itself seems to have acquired independent
                    significance only at the very end of Greeley's life and after his death—by which
                    time countless thousands had already followed his advice.
         
         
         
            The Firebombing of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     Holocaust Museum
            A Hoosier Community Responds to an Assault on Collective Memory
            WILLIAM B. PICKETT
            The events of a night in November 2003 in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, reminded local citizens that historical truth, though often unsettling, is
                    also precious—and that its preservation keeps us in contact with essential principles of
                    human dignity and morality. That night an arsonist destroyed a small museum dedicated to the
                    preservation of the memory of the Holocaust. The identity and intent of the arsonist remains
                    unknown, but it is doubtful that the response this violent act elicited was the one intended. In the
                    days and weeks that followed, a sizeable group of citizens, including thousands of school children,
                    came forward to offer support. Using newspaper articles, school fundraising activities, and
                    electronic mail, they had within four months obtained donations sufficient to begin to rebuild the
                    museum. By their spontaneous, positive response to an act of hate, these citizens created a new and
                    considerably larger awareness in their community of the importance of the museum and its founder, a
                    Holocaust survivor. They also revealed an 
                  William B. Pickett is a professor of history at Rose–Hulman Institute of
                            Technology, 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
               
                     awareness of the nature and causes of
                    genocide—something they had gained from a variety of sources, including books and
                    articles, Hollywood films, television programs, the Internet, curricular reform in the schools,
                    visits to a newly created national Holocaust museum, and by 2003, perhaps most important, from
                    continued violent assaults on civil societies by terrorist groups and brutal regimes.
            The cities and small towns of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     are filled with architecture and sculpture that commemorate politicians, authors, and
                    wars. In 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , seventy miles to the north of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , for example, stands the birthplace (a white, two–story,
                    neo–classical mansion) of Henry S. Lane, the 
                        United States
                     senator who nominated Abraham Lincoln for president at the Republican convention of
                    1860. 
                        Crawfordsville
                     also boasts the home and museum of Lew Wallace, Civil War Union general and author of
                        Ben Hur.
                    
                        Greencastle
                    , thirty miles to the northeast, houses DePauw University, formerly Indiana Asbury
                    Institute, a nineteenth–century Methodist seminary. The institute's original
                    building is still in use. On the nearby town square stands a monument to a different aspect of the
                    city's history: the sacrifices of local soldiers in World War II. A German V–l
                    buzz bomb, one of the aerial weapons that Nazi 
                        Germany
                     used to terrorize Great Britain in the 1940s, rests, now inert, on a concrete podium
                    above U.S. Highway 231 as it loops around the 
                        Putnam
                     County Courthouse.
            
               
                        Terre Haute
                     boasts a similarly rich historical culture. The comfortable two–story,
                    Victorian frame house that was the home of Eugene V Debs, four–time Socialist candidate
                    for president at the beginning of the twentieth century, is a living museum. 
                        Vigo County
                    's memorial to its war veterans was, for many years, a Korean
                    War–vintage F–84 fighter bomber (the first of its type capable of carrying an
                    atomic bomb) parked on a corner of the courthouse lawn. This
                    strangely–out–of–place aircraft reminded local residents of the
                    sacrifices made by their young men over fifty years ago in 
                        Korea
                    . Recently, a group of citizens working with veterans and Indiana State University
                    designed and constructed a new veterans' memorial plaza at the courthouse, moving the
                    F–84 to a less prominent location.
            Such is the physical fabric of American communities, a nexus of objects from the past that provides
                    clues to history and its lessons. The nation's founding fathers considered an educated
                    citizenry essential to the survival of individual freedom. Hoosier children begin to learn the
                    history of their state and country in the fourth grade. 
                        Illinois
                     children also learn about the Holocaust, something the 
                        Illinois
                     legislature mandated more than a decade ago.
            
            
               CANDLES Holocaust Museum in 
                            Terre Haute
                         shortly after it was firebombed on November 18, 2003. A spray–painted
                        message, "Remember Timmy McVeigh,' left by the arsonist is partly visible at
                        the right. Photograph by Mary Wright, courtesy CANDLES Holocaust Museum
            
            At about midnight (the 
                        Terre Haute
                     fire marshal's estimate is 12:12 A.M.) on November 18, 2003, someone threw a
                    brick through a window of the CANDLES (Children of Auschwitz Nazis' Deadly Lab Experiments
                    Survivors) Holocaust Museum and Education Center at 1532 South Third Street. The perpetrator or
                    perpetrators then splashed gasoline into the structure and struck a match. The inferno destroyed
                    artifacts—books, letters, photographs, and posters, as well as models made by school
                    children depicting the degradation and inhumanity of the concentration camps where, from 1942 to
                    1945, the Nazi regime murdered more than six million European Jews and several million other
                    persons. Within minutes the museum was ruined. Firefighters extinguished the flames before the
                    building—a one–story,
                    seventy–five–by–twenty–five–foot brick
                    structure— caved in; the place was gutted, only its trusses left standing. The small
                    crowd that gathered to view the damage could see scrawled in black spray paint beside the door in
                    large letters: "Remember Timmy McVeigh."1
            
            
               
                  1"Arsonist Reduces CANDLES Holocaust Museum to Ashes,"
                            
                     
                                Terre Haute
                             Tribune Star, November 19, 2003.
            
            
            Within twenty–four hours 
                        Terre Haute
                     and neighboring communities rallied to support the museum's founder, Eva Mozes
                    Kor, a Rumanian Jewish immigrant and survivor of Dr. Josef Mengele's experiments on
                    identical–twin children at the Auschwitz–Birkenau concentration camp complex
                    in 
                        Poland
                    . Responding to an e–mail alert the next day, some 150 citizens, joined by
                    Republican gubernatorial hopeful Mitch Daniels (who had driven the seventy miles from 
                        Lafayette
                    ), gathered in the museum's parking lot to hold up signs labeling the fire a
                    "hate crime," to hear speakers, and, finally, to join hands in front of television
                    cameras, forming a human chain around the burned–out structure.2 Over
                    the next few days school children began to raise money. Mary Wright, the museum's education
                    director, received more than seven hundred telephone calls and e–mails offering moral and
                    financial support from locations as distant as 
                        England
                    , South America, and 
                        Israel
                    . A local elementary school, Dixie Bee, embarked on a fundraiser for which students
                    engaged in "penny wars." They were asked to bring in "5 cents today, 10
                    cents tomorrow, 25 cents Tuesday, and $1 on Wednesday." A teacher at 
                        Terre Haute
                     North High School and her students took collections at the local Wal–Mart
                    between noon and 8 P.M. on Sunday. The response was overwhelming. Meanwhile, the International
                    Association of Arson Investigators announced a $5,000 reward for information leading to
                    the arrest and conviction of the arsonist, and the Anti–Defamation League offered an
                    additional $2,500.3
            
            By the end of the week, police, assisted by the FBI, had arrested an individual, whom they
                    characterized as "a drifter," for parole violation. The suspect had served time in
                    prison for the arson of an 
                        Oregon
                     Planned Parenthood clinic and had lived in 
                        Terre Haute
                     for six months. Witnesses recalled that he had made anti–Semitic remarks. A
                    federal grand jury indicted him the following month.4 But no evidence turned up
                    linking him to the fire, and authorities were uncertain that they had found the culprit. Still, by
                    the middle of March 2004—within just four months of the attack—local citizens,
                    with assistance from outside contributors, had raised $200,000 to help rebuild the
                        museum.5
            
            
               
                  2 The author was a participant.
               
                  3 "Worldwide Support Pours in for Museum," 
                     
                                Terre Haute
                             Tribune Star, November 21, 2003; "A Crime of Hate,"
                        ibid., November 19, 2003.
               
                  4 "Felon Torched Clinic in '70s," ibid.,
                        November 25, 2003; "FBI Joins Museum Fire Investigation," ibid., November 20,
                        2003; "Grand Jury Indicts Drifter on Firearms Charge," ibid., December 18,
                        2003.
               
                  5 Eva Kor, telephone conversation with author, March 12, 2004.
            
            
            
               
                        Terre Haute
                     in the late fall of 2003 was in many ways a typical medium–sized midwestern
                    city. Located close to the site where the Wabash River becomes the border with 
                        Illinois
                    , the city was by 1910 the most important urban area in the Indiana–
                        Illinois
                     coal fields and the home of significant numbers of European working–class
                        immigrants.6 In 1936, the United Mine Workers, protesting wages and working
                    conditions (and perhaps following the local legacy of Debs), had walked out of the mines, and
                    workers in other industries followed, initiating one of only three general strikes in American
                    history. The strike lasted two weeks but National Guardsmen, called out by the governor, patrolled
                    the streets for six months.
            As the twentieth century wore on, 
                        Terre Haute
                     prospered but did not grow. The high–sulfur, low–BTU variety of
                    coal mined locally became less profitable in an era of internal–combustion engines.7 As a result, 
                        Terre Haute
                    's population declined from 70,000 in 1910 to 60,000 by the end of the
                        century.8
            
            With completion of Interstate 70 in 1969 and the subsequent construction of Honey Creek Mall three
                    miles south of the central business district, retail businesses evacuated the downtown area. One by
                    one, the ornate Victorian structures came down. The 
                        Terre Haute
                     House hotel, a neo–classical, nine–story landmark made of yellow
                    brick and limestone, closed in 1969 and soon was abandoned. Once the center of the city's
                    social life, it remains standing, a neglected and decaying hulk.
            Declining population and the harsh effects of twentieth–century urbanization on the
                    downtown area, however, did not prevent 
                        Terre Haute
                     from remaining a vibrant and productive community. The city, including West 
                        Terre Haute
                     across the 
                        Wabash
                    , was home to three colleges: Indiana State University, Rose–Hulman Institute
                    of Technology (in 2003, according to U.S. News and World Report
                    rankings, the number–one undergraduate engineering school in the 
                        United States
                    ), and St. Mary–of–the–Woods College (the
                    nation's oldest Catholic liberal arts college for women, founded in 1840 by Sister Theodore
                    Guerin and the home of the Sisters of 
                        Providence
                    ). Combined, they attracted some thirteen thousand students each year.
            
               
                  6 William B. Pickett, "
                            Terre Haute
                        , Indiana: Causes and Effects of Failure to Grow, 1920–1970"
                        (paper delivered at the Indiana History Conference, November 4, 1978), 6–7.
               
                  7 Ibid, 8–9.
               
                  8 Ibid., 9, 12; areaConnect, "
                            Terre Haute
                         Population and Demographics," http://terrehaute.
                        areaconnect.com/statistics.htm.
            
            
            Local industry included manufacturing facilities for Eli Lilly and Company fifteen miles to the
                    north; Pfizer, some ten miles to the south; and Great Dane trailers, located both in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and in 
                        Brazil
                    , fifteen miles to the east. Sony Corporation's Digital Audio Disc Corporation
                    manufactured compact digital music and video discs in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and distributed them by means of a mail–order CD club (formerly the 
                        Columbia
                     Record Club) headquartered in the city Smaller industries sprang up in the late 1990s
                    to support the large Toyota assembly plant in 
                        Princeton
                    , eighty–four miles to the south. In the 1940s, the city welcomed a federal
                    maximum–security prison, which was built along the 
                        Wabash
                     five miles to the southwest and underwent several expansions in succeeding decades. 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 2003 remained an important center of local government, finance, real estate, and the
                    practice of law.
            
               
                        Terre Haute
                    's service clubs and organizations included Rotary Optimists, Kiwanis, and
                    Leadership 
                        Terre Haute
                    . There was a council for economic development, a visitors' and tourism bureau,
                    and a chamber of commerce. The city was home to churches of many denominations and ethnic
                    affiliations ranging from Syrian Orthodox to Unitarian, a county historical society and museum, a
                    children's science museum, a fire and policemen's museum, a boys' club, a
                    chapter of the Council for Domestic Abuse, a YWCA, a YMCA, and a public library with a superb local
                    history collection and community meeting rooms.
            The city had four historic districts—three residential and one commercial. Several of the
                    downtown's historic business structures had become restaurants or shops, while Hulman and
                    Company's eight–story red–brick and white–sandstone
                    building, completed in 1893 and home of Clabber Girl baking powder, still stood at the
                    city's center.
            Like most midwestern cities at the dawn of the twenty–first century, 
                        Terre Haute
                    's residential districts were segregated socio–economically and to a
                    large extent racially. Most African Americans, who had remained at about six percent of the
                    population over the decades, lived in two rundown, segregated districts. Despite an atmosphere of
                    good will in which newcomers were welcomed, more subtle forms of discrimination were practiced by
                    Protestants against both a sizeable Catholic population and by Christians generally against a
                    less–numerous but socially prominent Jewish population.
            Eva Mozes Kor is one member of that local Jewish community, though her story is far more dramatic
                    than most. She and her twin sister, Miriam, were daughters of a prosperous Jewish farmer named
                    Alexander Mozes and his wife, Jaffa, from the Rumanian province of Transylvania. In 1943 
                    
                  Kor and her twin sister, Miriam, at age one. They were born in
                            Rumania's Transylvania region just as Adolf Hitler began his rise to power in 
                                Germany
                            . "I was born in the wrong place, at the wrong time, the wrong religion
                            and the wrong sex," she says.
                  Courtesy Eva Mozes Kor
                and 1944, they were among the many sets of twin children who were used for human genetic
                    and other medical experiments by the notorious Nazi doctor Josef Mengele in the
                    Auschwitz–Birkenau concentration camps.9
            
            The Mozes family's persecution, beginning in 1940, occurred in stages, each one more severe
                    than the previous. After 
                        Hungary
                    , newly allied with 
                        Germany
                    , annexed Transylvania in 1940, local Nazi party members began harassing the family. In
                    the autumn of 1943, local officials placed the Mozes family under house arrest. The officials forced
                    them, along with all other Jews in the country, to wear a yellow Star of David on their clothes and
                    to obtain permission to leave their farm. As things became worse, the twins, their two older
                    sisters, and parents attempted to abandon their home, but Nazi thugs prevented their departure. In
                    March 1944, the authorities took 
                  
                     9 For a description of medical atrocities at the death camp, see
                            Miklos Nyiszli, Auschwitz: A Doctor's Eyewitness Account (
                                New York
                            , 1960).
               
                     the family, along with the other Jews in the region, to a
                    relocation center where they interrogated heads of families in an effort to locate their gold,
                    silver, or jewelry. Two months later the authorities forced the Mozes, along with thousands of other
                    Jews, onto packed cattle train cars for a four–day journey, without food and with almost
                    no water, into 
                        Poland
                    . Their arrival at Auschwitz at the end of this horrendous ordeal marked the last time
                    all of the family members saw each other.10
            
            After disembarking from the railroad car, Eva, Miriam, and their mother became separated from their
                    father and sisters who, they believed, were killed that day. Jaffa Mozes and her girls were standing
                    on the platform when Nazi soldiers ran by calling for twins. When Jaffa confirmed her
                    girls' relationship, Mengele's men took them for his experiments. As they were led
                    from the "selection" platform, Eva and her twin sister looked back at their
                    mother's outstretched arms. It was the last time they would ever see her. Camp guards
                    tattooed Eva's left arm with the designation "A–7063." She
                    recalls walking to the end of the crowded barracks to use the latrine that night and discovering the
                    corpses of three emaciated children lying on the floor.11
            
            In the weeks and months that followed, Mengele performed experiments on Eva and Miriam. His
                    assistants tied Eva to an examining table and inoculated her with unknown strains of bacteria or
                    viruses in order to observe her body's reaction and to compare it to that of her
                    "healthy" sister. Eva realized that if she died, her sister would lose her value
                    to the doctor and thus his reason to keep Miriam alive. Eva became ill with swollen arms and legs
                    and high fever, but through a combination of willpower, the help of other prisoners (who found
                    potatoes for her to eat), and luck, she fought off the illness. Later, Miriam also received
                    injections of unknown material, the source, she later believed, of her eventual kidney failure.12 Their only resource during this dreadful time was hope, which Eva considers
                    to have been essential. Each girl knew that her sister remained alive, and they could hear sounds of
                    nearby American bombing raids, indicating that the war was still going on.13
                    Soviet troops liberated the camps in January 1945.
            
               
                  10 Eva Mozes Kor, Echoes from Auschwitz: Dr. Mengele's Twins, The Story of Eva and Miriam Mozes as told to Mary Wright (
                            Terre Haute
                        , Ind., 1995), 51, 58–59, 63–64.
               
                  11 lbid., 71–73, 87, 95.
               
                  12 Ibid., 106–107, 110, 118. Eva donated one of her kidneys so
                        that her sister could live without dialysis.
               
                  13 Ibid., 88, 124–25.
            
            
            
               Twins Eva and Miriam Mozes, age eleven, upon their liberation from Auschwitz by
                        Soviet army troops on January 27, 1945. Courtesy Auschwitz Liberation Film
            
            The troops sent the Mozes girls with other children to an orphanage in a convent at Katowice. During
                    a visit to a refugee camp, they found a mother of twins, a Mrs. Csengheri who also had been at
                    Auschwitz–Birkenau and whose children also had survived. Eva and Miriam convinced her to
                    say she was their aunt and to take them with her. They hoped to get back to their home.
            The group traveled by train first to relocation centers in Byelorussia and then back to Transylvania,
                    where the twins found out that their parents and sisters had not returned. An aunt who lived in a
                    nearby city took them in. They began their education in communist–controlled Rumania,
                    where their knowledge of the West was largely confined to propaganda about the
                    "evils" of 
                        United States
                     "imperialism." In 1950, having become disillusioned with yet another
                    totalitarian government, they were able to immigrate with their aunt to 
                        Israel
                    .14
            
            
               
                  14 bid., 167–70, 175–78.
            
            
            It was there, a decade later, that Eva, by then a sergeant major in the Israeli army, met Michael
                    Kor, a Latvian–born Jew who as a child had survived internment at Buchenwald. With the
                    assistance of one of the American soldiers who liberated his camp, Kor had immigrated to 
                        Terre Haute
                    , where a local family raised him. He graduated from high school and received a
                    bachelor's degree in pharmacy at Purdue University.
            While he was vacationing in 
                        Israel
                     in 1960, Michael and Eva met, fell in love, and were married. He returned to 
                        Terre Haute
                    , and two months later his new bride followed to make their home.13
                    Miriam remained in 
                        Israel
                    , where Eva visited her each year until her death in 1993.16
            
            Eva's first decade in 
                        Terre Haute
                     was a relatively tranquil, domestic period; she and Michael concentrated on raising
                    their two children, Alex and Rina. Her identity as a "camp survivor," she soon
                    discovered, was something her neighbors found curious, perhaps even incomprehensible. They would
                    stare, and when she vigorously protested Halloween tricks such as soaping the Kor house windows or
                    throwing handfuls of corn on their porch, the neighbors shunned her, calling her "that
                    crazy lady." Michael and the children told Eva to ignore the taunts. Her reactions, they
                    said, simply encouraged more. But Eva never could.17
            
            After the 1979 broadcast of the NBC television miniseries Holocaust, Eva sensed a
                    beginning of awareness in the 
                        Terre Haute
                     community of what had happened to the European Jews.18 In 1982, she
                    sponsored a gathering of midwestern Holocaust survivors at a local motel, an event that provided
                    many of them with their first opportunity to meet and find mutual support. Eva contacted me through
                    the history department at Rose–Hulman and we conducted an audiotaped interview which she
                    then donated to the Indiana State University Library.19 Two years later, in
                    1984, she decided to form an organization called CANDLES dedicated to bringing together other
                    surviving twins and locating Mengele's medical records. It was possible, she thought, that
                    the records might contain information 
                  
                     15 Eva Kor, interview of March 20, 2004, Kor Oral History, March 20,
                            2004 (Rose–Hulman Oral History Archive, Rose–Hulman Institute of
                            Technology, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana), hereafter referred to as Eva Kor March 2004 interview; Mary Wright,
                            telephone conversation with author, April 8, 2004.
                  
                     16 Kor, Echoes from Auschwitz, dedication page.
                  
                     17 Eva Kor March 2004 interview.
                  
                     18 Ibid.; Wright telephone conversation.
                  
                     19 "Eva Kor and Holocaust survivors, interviews by William B.
                            Pickett, 1982 (Cunningham Memorial Library, Indiana State University, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , Indiana).
               
                     about the experiments and thus ways of countering their
                    long–term health effects. She also began to receive invitations to talk about her
                    experiences at Auschwitz–Birkenau from local civic groups, as well as school and college
                    classes.
            One such invitation came from high school English teacher Mary Wright, who asked Eva to speak to her
                    senior class in 
                  Fithian, Illinois
               . The students had read Nyiszli's Auschwitz: A Doctors Eyewitness Account and were familiar with the experiments on
                    twins. Wright recalls that the experience of meeting and listening to Eva was unforgettable for her
                        students.20
            
            After visiting both Auschwitz and the Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial in 
                        Israel
                     in the summer of 1993, Wright urged Eva to write an autobiography and even offered to
                    help her with it.21 They published the book, Echoes from
                    Auschwitz, in 1995. Meanwhile, Eva opened a small Holocaust museum on South Third Street where
                    travelers on Indiana 63/U.S. 41, the main route between 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Evansville
                    , could easily see it. To identify the museum, Eva and Mary erected a modest, lighted
                    commercial sign on a pole.
            The CANDLES Holocaust Museum and Education Center was an open classroom with tables displaying
                    objects and photographs depicting life in the death camps. Eva says her goal in founding the museum
                    was to teach children not to single out others. Such actions, she affirms, can lead to
                    discrimination or worse. Mary, for her part, helped Eva to envision and undertake an even larger,
                    educational mission.22 Students sat in the folding chairs in the center of the
                    room. Mary would give the introduction on the rise of anti–Semitism and the Nazi party in
                    the 1920s and 1930s. Eva would tell of her experiences. Linda Lambert, an English teacher at 
                        Terre Haute
                     North High School, was the first teacher in the area to assign students to read about
                    the Holocaust and to write essays which they entered in an annual contest sponsored by CANDLES.
                    Despite the lack of a state mandate or budgetary provisions, other teachers from 
                        Terre Haute
                     grade, 
                  
                     20 Mary Wright, e–mail to the author, April 27, 2004;
                            Wright telephone conversation.
                  
                     21 Wright telephone conversation.
                  
                     22 "Putting a Price on Holocaust Survivors'
                            Hopes," New York Times, March 13, 2004, B15. As Rabbi Yehuda
                            Krinsky of the Lubavitch Hasidic movement in Brooklyn has said, "The greatest
                            revenge the victims could have on those who persecuted and slaughtered them would be in the
                            perpetuity of the Jewish education and, therefore, Jewish life." But it is
                            important to note, as well, that among the groups that Hitler and his henchmen attempted
                            to' exterminate were disabled persons, gypsies, homosexuals, Jehovah's
                            Witnesses, and people of Slavic ethnicity.
               
                     middle, and high schools soon began to bring their classes to
                    the museum. Each year attendance, which included students from 
                        Illinois
                    , grew larger until during 2002 alone some 2,300 persons visited the museum.23 Eva estimates a total of more than 40,000 visitors to the museum in the
                    eight–and–a–half years of its existence.24
            
            Despite Mary's help and the growing interest of teachers and students, Eva felt that the
                    museum remained isolated from the mainstream of 
                        Terre Haute
                    's cultural life. Modest royalties from sales of Eva's book as well as
                    donations (including funds provided by a school in 
                        Illinois
                     in which children collected pull tabs from soft drink cans, and by students at 
                        Terre Haute
                     North who raised $10,000 by collecting one million pennies) helped defray
                    expenses but were never adequate.25
            
            What, then, caused such an outpouring of support for Eva after the fire? In part, it was the
                    traditional rallying of an American community to help a fellow member: compassion, charity, and
                    brotherly love combined with a feeling of "there but for the grace of God go I."
            There was another factor, however. Just three years earlier, the federal penitentiary at 
                        Terre Haute
                     had become the location of a new death chamber. It was there in June 2001 that federal
                    authorities, for the first time in thirty years, resumed the death sentence, executing Timothy
                    McVeigh, the convicted bomber of the Murrah Federal Building in 
                        Oklahoma
                     City, by lethal injection.
            A veteran of the 1991 Gulf War, McVeigh had been an excellent soldier, but he apparently became
                    disillusioned when he failed to qualify for the elite Special Forces. After his discharge he drifted
                    and began reading white–supremacist, anti–government literature. He became
                    obsessed with alleged FBI misdeeds such as the incident at 
                  Ruby
                            Ridge, Idaho
               , and the
                    assault on David Koresh's Branch Davidian religious compound at 
                  Waco, Texas
               .
            The McVeigh execution was a media event with international television news and camera crews camped
                    for a week near the prison grounds. The city established special routes and parking lots; buses
                    carried the crowds to and from the prison. Debates between proponents and opponents of the death
                    penalty made headlines in USA Today, the 
                        
                            New York
                        
                    
                    
                  
                     23 Wright telephone conversation; Linda Lambert, telephone
                            conversation with the author, April 24, 2004.
                  
                     24 Eva Kor March 2004 interview.
                  
                     25 Wright telephone conversation; Lambert telephone
                        conversation.
               
                    
                    
                  Eva and her husband, Michael, like her a concentration camp survivor, were
                            honored by Governor Joe Kernan at his state–of–the–state
                            address on January 13, 2004. Photo by Mary Wright
                Times, and around the world. On the day of the execution, to the dismay of many local
                    groups, world attention was fixed on 
                        Terre Haute
                    .26 By scrawling the words "Remember Timmy
                    McVeigh," the museum arsonist may have been making a political statement or may simply have
                    been trying to exorcise some internal demon. What is clear is that two years prior to the fire the
                    people of 
                        Terre Haute
                     had become conscious of themselves as actors on a moral stage, and any reference to
                    McVeigh brought back the mixed memories of the earlier event.
            In the years leading up to the fire, the citizens of 
                        Terre Haute
                     (and Americans generally) had become aware of the Nazi Holocaust as never 
                  
                     26 "As McVeigh's Execution Nears, Frenzy Envelops
                            Indiana Town," USA Today, March 19, 2001, A01; "McVeigh
                            Marks Towns at Both Ends of His Life, Hometown Eager to Let Fame Pass," ibid., June
                            12, 2001, A02.
               
                     before. Millions had seen the stirring episode about the
                    Fascist and Nazi efforts to exterminate the Jews in the television adaptation of Herman
                    Wouk's War and Remembrance. Steven Spielberg's film, Schindler's List, dramatized the stratagems of a self–centered
                    German entrepreneur, Oskar Schindler, to save Polish–Jewish work–camp inmates
                    from extermination by the Nazis. It won the Academy Award for best picture. Band of
                        Brothers, a popular mini–series on HBO, featured heart–wrenching
                    scenes of the liberation of Landsberg concentration camp in 
                        Austria
                    . Yet another Academy Award–winning movie, The Pianist,
                    portrayed the poignant efforts of a celebrated Jewish musician to hide from the Nazis in wartime'
                        Warsaw
                    . An act of Congress had authorized the construction of the 
                        United States
                     Holocaust Memorial Museum which opened in 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , in 1994.27
            
            From newspaper articles and television news, Americans learned about movements to provide reparations
                    to victims of historic wrongs, the most successful of which was the 1998 class–action
                    settlement in which Swiss banks paid $1.25 billion to European Jewry for their handling
                    of and profiting from secret Nazi accounts containing gold stolen from Jews during the Holocaust.
                    Edward R. Korman, chief judge of the U.S. district court in 
                  Brooklyn, New York
               ,
                    solicited applications for $400 million of settlement funds. Among the many applicants
                    was one of Kor's fellow survivors of Mengele's experiments, Irene Hizme, 66, of
                            
                  Long Island, New York
               . By the time of the settlement Irene was confined to a
                    wheelchair from ailments that she traced back to the death camp. Eva, whose father's assets
                    were mainly in land rather than gold, nevertheless was a part of this suit and received a settlement
                    of $1,000. She also received $4,700 from a settlement reached with the Bayer
                    Corporation (the German, not the American entity) for using Jews as slave laborers during the
                        war.28
            
            By 2003, the people of 
                        Terre Haute
                     shared a consciousness as never before of the wages of hate. They had seen televised
                    scenes of genocide in Bosnia, Rwanda, and Kosovo. The Islamic extremist hijackers who flew airliners
                    into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon on September 11, 2001, had demonstrated what
                    ideological hatred can lead to. Responding 
                  
                     27 See the Holocaust Museum's website at
                            http://www.ushmm.org.
                  
                     28 "Putting a Price on Holocaust Survivors'
                            Hopes," New York Times, March 13, 2004, B15; Eva Kor,
                            e–mail to author, June 20, 2004. Besides Jews, the claimants included Gypsies and
                            Jehovah's Witnesses.
               
                     to the destruction of the CANDLES museum was, they realized, a
                    way to speak out against such violence and inhumanity.29
            
            No doubt the most important reason for the public response, however, was Eva herself: her dedication
                    as a witness, a storyteller, and an educator. The fire brought out in her an admirable grace, true
                    to her message of peace and forgiveness. When the television reporters at the scene asked for her
                    reaction, she replied, "Well, I have had better days." After a slight pause, she
                    added, "I have had worse ones, too."30 In the days and weeks
                    that followed, she reached a national audience. "I am," she said, "an
                    eternal optimist. I do this because what I do in my little corner of the world might make a
                        difference."31
            
            On January 13, 2004, Indiana Governor Joe Kernan asked Eva and her husband to sit in a place of honor
                    at the state capitol during his annual state–of–the–state address.
                    Three days later, Eva received the "spirit of justice" award from the Indiana
                    Civil Rights Commission.32 For Eva, now seventy years old, her struggle from an
                    unlikely setting of a small city in southwestern Indiana to tell the story of the Holocaust
                    continues, but now, as never before, she has help. Her message of memory's precious place
                    in civilized societies has spread across her state and around the world.33
            
            
               
                  29 Lambert telephone conversation.
               
                  30 Eva Kor March 2004 interview.
               
                  31 "Kor Honored at State Ceremony," 
                     
                                Terre Haute
                             Tribune Star, January 27, 2004.
               
                  32 Ibid.
               
                  33 Kor telephone conversation.
            
         
         
         
            REVIEWS
            
               War under Heaven Pontiac, the Indian Nations, and the British Empire By Gregory Evans
                        Dowd (
                            Baltimore
                        
               : Johns Hopkins University Press, 2002. Pp. xvii, 360. Illustrations, maps,
                    notes, index. $32.00.)
            In War under Heaven, Gregory Evans Dowd offers a brilliant
                    reinterpreta–tion of the causes and consequences of Pontiac's War
                    (1763–1765), a series of violent conflicts between western Indians and British soldiers
                    that left thousands dead or displaced. Based on a vast array of primary research, Dowd's
                    study transcends old debates about the character of Pontiac himself to reveal the cultural, social,
                    and political context within which the war occurred. Along the way, he crafts a bold argument about
                    the place of Indian peoples within the first British Empire.
            For well over a century, historians have vigorously debated the causes of the war. Francis Parkman,
                    who wrote the first and most enduring account in 1851, treated the war as a
                    "conspiracy," planned by the cunning and despotic Pontiac who gained support for
                    his murderous designs through intimidation and deceit. More recent studies have sidelined the issue
                    of Pontiac's leadership and shifted to arguments about land ownership, the failure of
                    British diplomacy, or the anti–Indian sentiments of westward–moving colonists.
            Although Dowd makes ample allowance for each of these theories, he concludes that the war arose from
                    Indians' deeper concerns about their status within the British Empire, which, he forcefully
                    proposes, "emerged as the single most important issue in Pontiac's War, far more
                    important than, for example, trade, Indian hating, or even title to the lands themselves"
                    (p. 2). Many developments, ranging from British officers' dismissive language to their
                    tightfisted trade policy, convinced  Pontiac and his allies that
                    Indians had no standing within the empire. Thus, although Indian nations at 
                        Detroit
                     had immediate complaints different from those at Fort Pitt or Niagara, they
                    nevertheless shared a common fear that the British wished to exclude them or, worse, reduce them to
                    slavery. Encouraged by the revivalist spirituality of the 
                        Delaware
                     prophet Neolin, Indians from very different places with very different material
                    concerns joined to reclaim their power and their homelands.
            Most readers will likely accept as convincing (perhaps even definitive) Dowd's explanation
                    of the war's origins. His description of the conflict's military and diplomatic
                    history will likewise earn well–deserved praise for its eloquence and concision. For a
                    single work to synthesize such a broad and complex movement with such clarity is a rare and most
                    impressive accomplishment.
            If there is any area of Dowd's argument that will inspire disagreement, it is his
                    description of the war's legacy. Especially in the last fifteen years, historians have
                    tended to argue that Pontiac's War taught British authorities a powerful and costly lesson.
                    Rather than dominating Indians, they learned that they had to trade with them more fairly, treat
                    them more kindly, and prevent their own expanding population from overrunning Indian lands. Dowd
                    rejects this interpretation as "dangerously misleading" (p. 234). Instead, he
                    maintains that even after the war British colonists and administrators alike "shared in the
                    conviction of British superiority and in the expectation that Indians would, before long, surrender
                    their homelands to British subjects who were racially white" (p. 174). Dowd reveals an
                    imperial policy that at every level sought to push Indians beyond the legal and geographic
                    boundaries of the empire. Considering Indians neither subjects nor sovereigns, Dowd argues that
                    British policy from this period anticipated John Marshall's characterization of Indians as
                    "domestic dependent nations" (p. 188).
            Dowd's argument leaves little room for those within the empire, in 
                        England
                     or North America, who wished either to integrate Indians as subjects or to treat them
                    as fully sovereign allies. Nor does Dowd's approach allow for the many ironies and
                    ambiguities that surrounded discussions of Indians' status, especially when it came to the
                    idea of race. What, for example, are we to make of William Johnson and Jehu Hay, men who, according
                    to Dowd, wished all Indians to be either dominated or destroyed? Johnson fathered eight children
                    with a Mohawk woman and Hay married into a prominent metis family west of 
                        Detroit
                    . How did these men envision the status of their own extended families? How did their
                    policies toward Indian peoples reflect enmities between their kin and other Indian nations? Did they
                    wish, in the ways that Dowd implies, to exclude their own relatives from the empire on racial
                    grounds?
            These minor, and perhaps unanswerable, questions are not meant to  diminish Dowd's remarkable achievement. Even if the racial boundaries of
                    Indians' status are not always probed as critically as this reader would have liked, War under Heaven is still an exceptionally rich and rewarding book. It offers the
                    finest treatment we have of the causes and course of the war, and a provocative interpretation of
                    its legacies. Even those who disagree with Dowd's final conclusions will find themselves
                    rethinking the conflict, the region, and the period for some time to come.
            BRETT RUSHFORTH is National Endowment for the Humanities
                    postdoctoral fellow at the Omohundro Institute of Early American History and Culture, and visiting
                    assistant professor at the College of William and Mary, 
                  Williamsburg, Virginia
               . He
                    is currently revising his book manuscript about Indian slavery in New 
                        France
                    .
         
         
            
               Buckeye Women, The History of 
                            Ohio
                        's Daughters By Stephane Elise Booth (
                  Athens: Ohio
               
                    University Press, 2001. Pp. xvi, 239. Illustrations, notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    Clothbound, $37.95; paperbound, $17.95.)
            Stephane Elise Booth's Buckeye Women, published to commemorate the
                    bicentennial of 
                        Ohio
                    's statehood, provides general readers with a useful and readable overview of
                    the heroic roles women played in 
                        Ohio
                    's history. Following a chapter on the frontier period, Booth considers the
                    history of 
                        Ohio
                     women through the twentieth century in topically organized chapters focusing on
                    employment, the suffrage movement and political activism, reform movements and benevolent projects,
                    cultural and leisure activities, and religious and educational institutions.
            Each chapter relies on a range of historical scholarship and primary sources to provide chronological
                    and geographical coverage, although the topical organization does give rise to occasional
                    repetition. Less understandable, however, is the author's decision to place her discussion
                    of 
                        Ohio
                     women's struggle for the vote and subsequent political activity (chapter 3)
                    before a detailed analysis (chapter 4) of the anti–slavery, temperance, and moral reform
                    movements from which suffrage activity later arose. While African–American women appear
                    in every chapter, the author excludes Sojourner Truth's famous speech at the 1851 Akron
                    women's rights convention, a speech which has recently been the subject of considerable
                    historical controversy. More troubling, the book gives almost no attention to the Native American
                    women whose peoples first inhabited the region. On those occasions when a Native American woman does
                         appear in the book, it is as the object of the actions of a
                    white woman, consistently portrayed by Booth as the "keeper of culture" (p. 3) on
                    the frontier. Indeed, Booth summarizes the significance of the removal of virtually all Native
                    Americans from 
                        Ohio
                     by the 1830s as "leaving one less responsibility for women" (p. 9).
                    In her coverage of women's education, the author neglects the pioneering role of Oberlin
                    College, the first coeducational college in the nation.
            
               Buckeye Women is an engaging story of 
                        Ohio
                     women triumphing over adversity in a multitude of public realms; general readers in
                    search of inspiration will find no shortage of heroines in this account. Those wishing to gain
                    insight into the motivations and actions of women who America's inland rivers have received
                    ample scholarly attention over the last twenty years. John O. Afinson's The River We Have Wrought adds another fine volume to that literature. It
                    focuses on midwesterners' longstanding struggles to improve the upper Mississippi
                        River's navigability and on the ensuing conflicts with conservationists over
                    river management. Geographically, Afinson looks at the river between 
                        St. Louis
                     and 
                        Minneapolis
                    , represented a different political and social perspective—by opposing
                    women's right to vote, racial integration, or the Equal Rights Amendment, for
                    example—will need to look elsewhere.
            VIRGINIA R. BOYNTON, associate professor of history at
                    Western 
                        Illinois
                     University, Macomb, recently guest edited the "Women and 
                        Illinois
                     History" issue of 
                        Illinois
                    
                    History Teacher (2003). Her most recent publications include articles on the 
                        Illinois
                     Woman's Committee during World War I in the Journal of 
                            Illinois
                         History, the Journal of the 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Society, and 
                  
                            Chicago
                         History, as well as an essay on 
                  Cleveland, Ohio
                reformer Jane
                    Edna Hunter in Builders of 
                            Ohio
                        : A Biographical History (2003).
         
         
            
               The River We Have Wrought A History of the Upper 
                            Mississippi
                        
                By John O. Afinson (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 2003. Pp. xxii, 365. Illustrations, maps, tables, notes, index.
                    $29.95.)
            America's inland rivers have received ample scholarly attention over the last twenty years.
                    John O. Afinson's The River We Have Wrought adds
                    another fine volume to that literature. It focuses on midwesterners' longstanding struggles
                    to improve the upper Mississippi River's navigability and on the
                    ensuing conflicts with conservationists over river management. Geographically, Afinson looks at the
                    river between 
                        St. Louis
                     and 
                        Minneapolis
                    , a stretch that required substantial modifications to accommodate steam paddlewheelers
                    and, more recently, large barge fleets. Temporally, he considers the period between
                    1823—the date when steamboat traffic commenced on that stretch—and 1940, when
                    the U. S. Corps of Engineers completed the last of the locks and dams that opened a continuous
                    nine–foot channel along the length of the upper river.
            
            The author follows a logical structure that leads the reader through the river's
                    transformation from its natural state to a thoroughly engineered waterway. Chapters one to four
                    trace nineteenth–century steamboat and timber–raft navigation on the river and
                    the subsequent political struggles to construct a
                    four–and–a–half–foot channel to increase the efficiency
                    of waterborne transportation by 1906. Chapters five through nine contrast declining river commerce
                    with the seemingly futile demands for improvements to maintain the river's competitiveness
                    with railroads. While campaigning for federal support, navigation boosters encountered a second
                    opponent—conservation advocates. Chapters ten and eleven provide the political context
                    surrounding the nine–foot channel effort. In his closing chapter, Afinson refers to the
                    four stages of river development: the natural waterway, the river modified by channel constriction
                    techniques, the lock–and–dam stage of the nine–foot channel, and
                    the river as it continues to evolve today. Employing these stages throughout the book would have
                    strengthened their use in the closing and in the work's overall organization.
            While there have been other works on inland rivers, this is a very satisfying contribution. An
                    obvious strength is the rich context Afinson provides. This is not a one–dimensional
                    treatment of commerce statistics or technological triumph. By situating the early navigation modi
                    fications within the national agricultural crisis and the Granger movement, Afinson raises his
                    discussion above a regional treatment. With each successive campaign for congressional funding, he
                    situates the battle within larger national political and economic deliberations. In addition,
                    Afinson adeptly weaves together multiple strands of human interaction with the river. He offers an
                    informed discussion of early channel constriction and its impact on river hydrology. He also
                    discusses environmental degradation produced by channel transformation. His well–balanced
                    treatment adds to the historical discussion of the Mississippi River and its
                    importance to the Midwest.
            At the heart of this work lies the conflict between navigation boosters and conservation advocates.
                    While Afinson portrays them as equally matched adversaries, the navigational interests clearly had
                    the greater influence. Many powerful players participated in reworking the river, but local boosters
                    and farmers were the chief allies who displayed an insatiable appetite for navigation modifications.
                    When challenged by a national park movement, they prevailed. When they failed to stop the creation
                    of a national wildlife refuge, where environment took precedence over commerce, they were not
                    dismayed. In subsequent battles for the nine–foot channel, economic development
                    overwhelmed wildlife and water–quality concerns. Commerce unquestionably prevailed
                    through 1940. To suggest a  greater parity before 1970 strains
                    the issue.
            Although early river modification programs were unable to reverse a downward trend of river commerce,
                    the nine–foot channel has opened the upper river to considerable barge traffic. It has
                    also completed a major overhaul of the natural river. While obviously sympathetic to the
                    river's environment, Afinson ends optimistically by pointing out that the most recent
                    transformation has benefitted habitat and water quality as part of an ecologically sensitive river
                    management program. Americans, he argues, are "unwilling to accept either the loss of the
                    river's ecosystem or the loss of the river as a transportation artery" (p. 292).
                    Fulfilling this dual expectation is the challenge faced by river managers.
            CRAIG E. COLTEN is a professor of geography at 
                        Louisiana
                     State University, 
                        Baton Rouge
                    . His books include The American Environment: Interpretations of Past
                        Geographies (1992, co–editor), Transforming 
                            New Orleans
                         and its Environs: Centuries of Change (2000, editor), and "An
                    Unnatural Metropolis: Wresting 
                        New Orleans
                     from Nature" (forthcoming in 2005).
         
         
            
               Baseball Fever Early Baseball in 
                            Michigan
                        
                By Peter Morris (
                        Ann Arbor
                    : University of 
                        Michigan
                     Press, 2003. Pp. x, 300. Illustrations, notes, appendices, select bibliography,
                    indices. Clothbound, $55.00; paperbound, $24.95.)
            What was there about baseball (given the number of urban eastern fads to fizzle in the Midwest), asks
                    Peter Morris in his new study of baseball in 
                        Michigan
                    , that allowed it to catch on west of the Appalachians, and how did it happen? Morris is
                    interested in discerning how baseball evolved during a critical period in its history—
                    the two decades preceding the founding of the National League in February 1876—by deeply
                    examining one distinct area (in this case, the state of 
                        Michigan
                    ). 
                        Michigan
                     is a good choice in many respects. The state was home to enough towns with sufficient
                    populations, a large city (
                        Detroit
                    ) that did not overpower the others, and enough fairs and other events to generate
                    plenty of tournaments and spectators. This work demonstrates that baseball was becoming a
                    "national sport" well before the advent of the first all–professional
                    team in 1869.
            Baseball reflected much about the tension between American ideals and reality, as Morris
                    demonstrates. Seen as a country boys' game that was still played in idyllic settings of
                    green grass and fresh air, the sport fit into the Jeffersonian ideal of an agricultural nation.
                    However, it gained popularity  in the East and 
                        Detroit
                     alike. Initially played by either elites or the upwardly mobile in cities under the
                    most gentlemanly of rules, it quickly became a game in which youth, strength, and speed mattered far
                    more than courtesy on the field; imagine, if you will, Roger Clemens apologizing for throwing a
                    close pitch to Mike Piazza—as he might have in 1857, pitching for the 
                        Detroit
                     Franklins. While initially a mere game played by clubs for fun and occasionally to
                    determine who paid for dinner, baseball became a game where men pursued more tangible gains.
            While focusing primarily on games and tournaments, Morris is clearly interested in figuring out why
                    this elitist game, played by and for real or aspiring gentlemen, soon appealed to a broader base of
                    spectators. For one thing, the old chivalry fell by the wayside within just a few years of the end
                    of the Civil War, replaced by a greater emphasis on winning. Professional–ization shifted
                    the focus to finances, recruiting players, and gaining competitive edges. Soon the playing field was
                    enclosed and spectators were charged for admission. Paradoxically, this trend helped baseball build
                    a sense of community among spectators. Interestingly, local fans were even willing to tolerate
                    imported professional players and ringers on their own teams so long as they won games and beat
                    their rivals in neighboring towns, suggesting that rooting for the local team created a greater
                    sense of community. Morris describes a process whereby baseball became a tool in building
                    boosterism, community competitive spirit, and a sense of belonging, as playing and watching ball
                    games spread from town to town and from fathers to sons.
            This book uses pre–National League baseball as a prism through which to see the
                    dovetailing of emerging Gilded Age values with changing views about leisure and play. This story
                    would be lost had Morris tried to tackle it on a scale any larger than that of a state, because the
                    nuances of local competition and of the ebb and flow of popularity would be buried under the story
                    of emerging professional teams, as is the case with most histories of baseball during this period.
                    The book might have been shortened by omitting the lists of players or by summarizing the results of
                    yearly tournaments, but it would have lost its appeal as a closely detailed case study of the way in
                    which baseball became the "national pastime."
            JEFFREY SMITH is professor of history at Lindenwood
                    University in 
                  St. Charles, Missouri
               . He has written extensively on the history of
                    baseball, particularly on the relationship between progressive reform and the rise of industrial
                    league teams. He lives in 
                        St. Louis
                    , three miles from Busch Stadium.
         
         
         
            
               Black Power on Campus, The University of 
                            Illinois
                        , 1965–75 By Joy Ann Williamson (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 2003. Pp. xiii, 192. Illustrations, table, appendices, notes, index.
                    $34.95.)
            Scholarship on the 1960s black freedom movement is rapidly shifting from studies of civil rights to a
                    focus on black power. Joy Ann Williamson's Black Power on Campus makes a
                    significant contribution to this emerging trend. Using a wealth of primary sources from the
                    University of 
                        Illinois
                     Archives and thirty–one interviews with former students, faculty, and
                    administrators, Williamson provides a detailed analysis of the motivations and process by which
                    African–American student activists, as well as both black and white university
                    administrators and faculty, negotiated campus reform. In so doing, she situates this rich material
                    in the context of both higher–education reform and the transition from the civil rights
                    to the black power movement.
            Students constitute one of the most important and perhaps least–studied segments of the
                    new black power studies. Yet as Williamson demonstrates, an examination of
                    African–American student protests from a black power perspective opens a window on a
                    broad range of interconnected subjects. Her study traces the general history of
                    African–American student protest at predominantly white campuses from the 1920s through
                    the mid–1970s, as well as the more specific story of black students at the University of 
                        Illinois
                     at 
                        Urbana
                    –
                        Champaign
                     (UIUC) from 1887 through the mid–1970s. For both the general and the
                    specific histories, the 1940s through the 1950s represented an escalation in the struggle, while the
                    period from 1965 to 1975 marked the high tide of black student protests.
            While attuned to continuity between these two moments, Williamson ultimately uncovers a story of
                    startling transformations. During the 1940–1964 period there were few
                    African–American students on predominantly white campuses—as late as 1967, for
                    instance, only 233 attended UIUC. This generation of black students was isolated and tended toward
                    assimilation and conformity. When these students did engage in protest they did so through
                    integrated chapters of national organizations, such as the NAACP and Congress of Racial Equality
                    (CORE). In contrast, during the latter period, particularly between 1964 and 1970, black student
                    enrollment doubled nationally and more than quadrupled at UIUC (p. 71). According to Williamson, the
                    increased enrollment of African–American students dramatically altered the campus
                    climate. At 
                        Illinois
                    , the increased numbers combined with factors particular to UIUC, such as the
                    homogeneity of black students and the racial politics  of 
                        Chicago
                    , to create a unique cohesion among black students.
            Using the language of the black power era and of African–American psychologistWilliam
                    Cross,Jr.'s, "Nigrescence" or
                    "Negro–to–Black Conversion Process model," Williamson labels
                    black students during the former period as "Negroes" and describes their goals as
                    "integrationist." In contrast, she uses the term "Black" for
                    later students, who are committed to "instilling solidarity and unity among Black students
                    … expressing the positive aspects of Black culture, and providing a training ground for
                    political organization and leadership" (p. 28). Using the testimony of students, Williamson
                    powerfully locates these differences in the break with the civil rights movement and adoption of
                    black power ideology. She quotes a former student, Sandra Norris, as saying, "When I came
                    there, I was … a student who happened to be Black. When I left, I was a Black who
                    happened to be a student" (p. 49). Black power ideology meant "preservation of
                    Black identity, preference for an ethnically centered curriculum, and an orientation toward
                    collective racial advancement" (p. 31). These views were quite a distance from those of the
                    preceding generation.
            The transformation of African–American students' ideology from negro
                    assimilationist to black power, and the resulting institutional reforms at places like UIUC, attest
                    to the long–term influence of the 1960s' generation of black student activists.
                    Williamson's most important point is to remind us of how transformative
                    black power was. This is particularly important at a moment when historians tend to collapse civil
                    rights and black power and to argue that continuity rather than change characterized the
                    relationship between the two movements. Black Power on Campus makes a tremendous
                    contribution to the burgeoning black power studies literature. Moreover, it suggests that we need
                    more historical accounts of black students and the creation of black studies units.
            SUNDIATA KEITA CHA–JUA is
                    associate professor of history and director of the Afro–American Studies and Research
                    Program at the University of 
                        Illinois
                     at 
                        Urbana
                    –
                        Champaign
                    .
         
         
            
               Generations of Captivity, A History of African–American Slaves, By
                    Ira Berlin (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: Belknap Press, 2003. Pp. 374. Maps, illustrations, tables, notes, index.
                    $29.95.)
            Ira Berlin skillfully braids the histories of African–American slaves into a coherent,
                    self–contained narrative that provides general readers and specialists alike a way to
                    conceptualize two–and–a–half centuries of history  while accounting for regional differences, dramatizing change over
                    time, and documenting the persistence of slave resistance in English, French, and Spanish North
                    America.
            In Generations of Captivity, Berlin compresses and updates his
                    prize–winning study Many Thousands Gone: The First Two Centuries of Slavery
                        in North America (1998), integrating his earlier account with a fresh evaluation of
                    antebellum slavery and a brief sketch of emancipation. He investigates how antebellum–era
                    slavery accelerated and transformed social processes that had developed over the preceding
                    centuries. The era of the internal slave trade, which Berlin evocatively labels the "Second
                    Middle Passage," and the rise of the cotton South marked "the period of
                    slavery's most rapid change in mainland North America" (p. 16). Berlin
                    demonstrates this assertion by attaching his analysis of antebellum slavery to his detailed account
                    of slavery in colonial America.
            Berlin creates order by designing analytical categories, identifying bellwether experiences, and
                    delineating specific regions to revisit in each section of the book. He uses the concept of
                    "generations" to divide his study into four major sections, each of which
                    evaluates slavery in the North, the Chesapeake, the 
                        South Carolina
                     and 
                        Georgia
                     low country, and the lower Mississippi Valley. "Charter
                    generations" of Africans defined the slave experience in the seventeenth century. These
                    early slaves were more likely to achieve greater measures of freedom than subsequent generations, in
                    part because as members of this numerically small cohort, they possessed knowledge of the Atlantic
                    world that matched or exceeded that of frontier–society Europeans. On the southern
                    Atlantic coast, "Plantation Generations" transformed colonial–era
                    slavery, creating societies organized economically, politically, and socially around slavery. Some
                    parts of the North experienced increased dependence on slaves. The era of the American Revolution
                    transformed life once again, leading to gradual abolition in the North. In the South, slaveholders
                    recovered from the turbulence of war, evangelical revivals, and egalitarian political rhetoric,
                    setting the stage for a dramatic expansion of slavery in the region. During the "Migration
                    Generations" of the nineteenth century, the lives of African Americans suffered profound
                    disruptions. The transportation of approximately one million people westward forced slaves to forge
                    new lives and new communities within the antebellum cotton economy. The arrival of
                    Anglo–American planters further accelerated a trend toward plantation slavery in the
                    lower Mississippi Valley, a region where previous generations of French and
                    Spanish masters had been forced to grant considerable autonomy to slaves.
            Berlin is acutely sensitive to variations within and between regions, while also arguing that each
                    generation left a legacy which shaped those that followed, despite dramatically shifting conditions.
                    Among the bench–marks  he provides to describe slave
                    experience are the degree to which slaves carved out opportunities for independent economic
                    production, as well as whether slave labor followed a closely supervised "gang" or
                    a more flexible "task" system. Berlin also pays close attention to the ebb and
                    flow of African cultural traditions and adaptations of Christianity within
                    African–American communities. Naming patterns provide one tangible index for measuring
                    both status and cultural adaptation.
            Berlin forges meaningful comparisons across regions, eras, and social classes, while breathing
                    abundant life into his narrative through vivid examples. The study draws considerable energy from
                    the persistent impulse among slaves and masters to renegotiate each slave–labor regimes
                    requirements. This tension combined with changing staples, patterns of slave importation, and
                    political regimes to ensure diverse and far–from–inevitable outcomes across
                    the history of slavery. Some regions deepened their investment in slavery, even as others retrenched
                    or reconfigured their commitment to the institution. In each generation, American slaves devel oped
                    internal cultural resources to mitigate inescapable oppression. The strategies of free, often urban,
                    black communities also were conditioned by the persistence of slavery.
            While readers will not find material that specifically addresses Indiana history, Berlin's
                    insistence that the antebellum North was not "a free society," but rather
                    "part of a slave–holding republic" (p. 233) until the issuance of the
                    Emancipation Proclamation should stimulate thoughtful reflection amongst all readers. So too will
                    Berlins closing observations on how negotiations between blacks and whites touched off by the coming
                    of freedom continued to be colored by slavery. The Civil War and its aftermath further confirmed
                    that the nation's history was entangled with slavery from the first
                    trans–Atlantic immigrants to the age of Lincoln.
            DAVID GELLMAN is co–editor of Jim
                        Crow 
                            New York
                        : A Documentary History of Race and Citizenship, 1777–1877 (2003)
                    and the author of a forthcoming book on the abolition of slavery in 
                        New York
                    . He is an assistant professor of history at DePauw University, 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana.
         
         
            
               The Hour and the Woman,Harriet Martineau's
                        "Somewhat Remarkable" Life, By Deborah Anna Logan (De Kalb: Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 2002. Pp. xi, 332. Appendix, notes, works cited, index.
                    $42.00.)
            Many Americans know Harriet Marti–neau (1802–1876) because of the published
                    account of her travels in the 
                        United States
                     (including 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Michigan
                    ) during the mid–1830s. In The Hour and the Woman, Western
                        
                    
                        Kentucky
                     University associate professor of English Deborah Logan explores Martineau's
                    journey from the deaf daughter of an English Unitarian textile manufacturer into a
                    self–supporting writer and activist whose works and ideas spanned the Atlantic. The
                    author's discussion of Martineau's involvement in the American antislavery
                    movement, and of her interactions with such well–known figures as Charlotte Bronte,
                    Florence Nightingale, and Margaret Fuller, leaves no doubt in the reader's mind that
                    Martineau indeed led a remarkable life. The determined efforts of contemporary
                    reviewers—so well documented in this work—to dismiss Martineau's work
                    as the ramblings of a deaf spinster with limited education further testify to the political threat
                    she posed in her time. Why, then, has she been overlooked for so long by literary and social
                    historians? It is, Logan contends, because her inter–disciplinarity and nonconformity
                    made it impossible for earlier critics and scholars to fit her into a neat category. This
                    fascinating study goes a long way in establishing Martineau's significance as an influence
                    on Victorian culture on both sides of the Atlantic.
            Departing from the chronological arrangement of most biographies, Logan provides a biographical
                    overview in the first chapter and devotes the remainder of the book to thematic essays highlighting
                    several dimensions of Martineau's complex life. An intriguing chapter two examines why this
                    dedicated needleworker devoted countless hours of her life to produc ing everything from cot
                    blankets for infants to the intricate needlework sofa cover portrayed on the back of the dust
                    jacket. The highly gendered act of needleworking, Logan argues, was for Martineau a subversive
                    activity; it gave her the appearance of respectability while enabling her to raise money for reform
                    causes and to carve out time for the reflection needed to inspire her writing.
            The Hour and the Woman also provides readers with deeper insight into the American
                    roots of Martineau's feminism and abolitionism (although those who yearn to know more about
                    her travels in the Great Lakes region will be disappointed). Martineau's
                    three–volume Society in America, published after her
                    1834–1836 travels in the 
                        United States
                    , positioned her to become "one of the most vocal participants in the.
                    transatlantic slavery debates" (p. 79). Confident of the validity of her observations, this
                    frank nonconformist and freethinker not only denounced chattel slavery but also called for the
                    eradication of sexual and social slavery. In addition to being an abolitionist, Logan argues,
                    Martineau's "woman–centered approach to resolving social, economic, and
                    political inequalities based on race, class, and sex" (p. 165) establishes her as a
                    nineteenth–century feminist. She not only refused to hide her identity as a woman behind
                    a male pseudonym, but also further transgressed gendered expectations of women authors by favoring
                    serious nonfiction over the more popular genre of romance novels.
            Logan succeeds admirably in establishing  Martineau as an
                    influential voice in both American and British society, documenting the sale of her work, the people
                    with whom she interacted, and those whom she men–tored. The Hour and the
                        Woman is beautifully written, although at times theoretical digressions detract from the
                    flow of the narrative. Since the author so clearly wishes to increase awareness of and scholarly
                    interest in Martineau, it also is regrettable that this thoroughly researched work lacks a list of
                    the manuscript collections and periodicals/newspapers consulted. Despite these minor limitations,
                    scholars of antebellum America, print culture, and women's history will join literary
                    historians in finding this a valuable addition to nineteenth–century studies.
            JOANNE PASSET is an assistant professor of history at
                    Indiana University East, 
                        Richmond
                    . The author of Cultural Crusaders: Women Librarians in the American West,
                        1900–17 (1994), and Sex Radicals and the Quest for Women's
                        Equality (2003), she currently is working on a biography of nineteenth–century
                    activist and feminist Juliet H. Severance.
         
         
            
               Land without Nightingales, Music in the Making of
                        German–America, Edited by Philip V. Bohlman and Otto Holzapfel (
                        Madison
                    , Wis.: Max Kade Institute for German American Studies and the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 2002. Pp. xix, 301. Compact disc, notes, illustrations, bibliographies, tables,
                    appendix, figures, index. $49.95.)
            Contemporary popular music in America reveals an ever–increasing indebtedness to
                    international influences. This anthology, an outgrowth of a 1992 conference at the University of 
                        Chicago
                    , reminds us that this process is part of a long tradition. What was sung and played in
                    America involved an internationalization with roots going back to the earliest days of settlement in
                    the 1600s when Britons, Germans, and others began coming to America.
            In their introductory essay, Philip V. Bohlman and Otto Holzapfel indicate that their major goal is
                    to define German–American ethnicity by study–ing its music. The effort is
                    unusually complex and problematic as it often involves assessing the assimilation of
                    non–German musical elements. By showing the fluidity of the making of
                    German–American ethnicity, the essayists put to rest the older folkloric notion that an
                    ethnic group's music was homogeneous and static. It was, to the contrary, a mixture of
                    internal and external influences even before it arrived on these shores.
            Unlike most peer studies of ethnic music, the editors as well as the authors of the essays are
                    knowledgeable scholars from both sides of the Atlantic. This enables readers to experience  a perspective embracing both the emigrant and immigrant lands.
            Another distinguishing aspect of the work is the choice of the ethnic group studied. The Germans were
                    one of the largest white contingents to come to America, and they had a powerful influence on
                    American music and culture. German bands and instrumentalists were ubiquitous entertainers in the
                    1800s, playing both German and American pieces in concert halls, at public festivals and civic
                    occasions, as well as in taverns and saloons. They also entertained at their own affairs, in
                    churches and music contests, and at parties and family celebrations. Even at these internal affairs
                    their repertoires were often eclectic, reflecting a mixture of influences.
            The essays offer unusual insights about music and the transformation of German ethnic identity. One
                    of the best is Kathleen Conzen's micro–study of rural Sauk Valley Germans, in
                    which she shows how her subjects manipulated American law to both enforce and oppose group behavior.
                    She also cites the German sense of mission and cultural superiority over "joyless"
                    American materialism that later changed and accepted mainstream American music. An essay by Leo
                    Schelbert illustrates how distinctive Swiss immigrant music reveals that group's
                    uncertainty about their future in the new land.
            Three essays, by Lawrence Libin, Bohlman, and Helmut Walz, treat the importance of hymnal and sheet
                    music in early colonial times. These ma terials reveal the process of
                    German–Americanization, including borrowings from several of the group's
                    religions in America: Catholicism, Lutheranism, and even Judaism. Folk–lorist James
                    Leary's essay notes that the German concertina has concentrated in the Upper Midwest; while
                    it still is considered German, the concertina also has evolved into an instrument of and for the
                    common folk. In the final essay, Alan Burdette deals directly with the book's theme of
                    change, discussing what he calls traditionalization, a process that mixes past and present.
            The work does have certain flaws but, considering the huge scope of its topic, most are excusable.
                    The musical coverage cannot be comprehensive, but it is nevertheless regrettable that no mention is
                    made of the important ethnic labor songs. Also, while the individual entries are of uniformly high
                    quality, they have little continuity—a common problem with anthologies. Nevertheless, the
                    work is a pioneering venture in making ethnic music a part of our social history, and it makes a
                    substantial contribution to the ever–growing literature on the relationship of music to
                    group ethnicity and assimilation. Enhanced as it is with extensive bibliographies and an
                    accompanying CD, it should encourage future research on the subject and serve as a model for other
                    studies.
            VICTOR GREENE is emeritus professor at the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    –Milwaukee. He has written four books on 
                    American ethnicity. His fifth, A Sing– by 
                        Kent
                     State University Press. He ing Ambivalence: Immigrant Songs,
                    currently is working on a history of 1830–1930, will be published in
                    2004 metropolitan folk festivals.
         
         
            
               Beyond the Battlefield Race, Memory, and the American Civil War By David W.
                    Blight, (Amherst: University of 
                        Massachusetts
                     Press, 2002. Pp. xi, 301. Notes, index. Clothbound, $70.00; paperbound,
                    $19.95.)
            This work is a collection of twelve essays and lectures that the author contributed to the subfield
                    of "memory studies" over a fifteen–year span ending in 1998. These
                    essays address Dwight W. Blight's primary scholarly concerns: "the meaning of the
                    causes, course and consequences of the American Civil War; the nature of African American history
                    and the significance of race in American history generally; and the character and purpose of the
                    study of historical memory" (p. ix). After an introduction intended as a primer on the
                    relationship between history and memory, Beyond the Battlefield is organized into
                    three sections. The first part, "Preludes," contains four chapters that treat the
                    coming of the Civil War. One of the most appealing, a lecture delivered on the centennial observance
                    of the death of Frederick Douglass, examines how the black leader's three autobiographies
                    attempted to order the passage of time. The second part, dealing with the war, is the lengthiest
                    portion of the book. Those familiar with Blight's Race and Reunion: The Civil
                        War in American Memory (2001) will find that the five chapters in this section cover the
                    same ground as that highly acclaimed book.
            The third part, "Postludes," comprises two chapters and an epilogue. In one,
                    entitled "W E. B. DuBois and the Struggle for American Historical Memory" (which
                    previously appeared in an anthology, History and Memory in African–American
                        Culture, eds. Genevieve Fabre and Robert G. O'Meally, 1994), Blight declares that
                    "the real tragedy of Reconstruction was not in the history but in the histories"
                    and looks to a day "when the marketplace for the construction of social memories
                    … [is] as free and open as possible, while still firmly guided by the rules of
                    scholarship," ensuring that "the politics of remembering and forgetting might be,
                    here and there, overcome" (p. 250). Whether that is "a vain hope or a realized
                    ideal remains the principal challenge of all those seriously interested in American historical
                    consciousness" (p. 251). In the adjoining chapter, Blight assesses the vision of the late
                    Nathan Irvin Hug–gins, chiefly through his imaginative, though controversial Black
                    Odyssey: The African American Ordeal in Slavery (1977). A work that reflected the
                         influence of Oscar Handlin's The
                        Uprooted (1951), Black Odyssey's chief target was what Blight
                    labels the "Ban–croftian paradigm"—the "master
                    narrative of providential destiny." Blight suggests the need for a "replacement
                    narrative"—one that, like Huggins's work, will pay attention to
                    "contradiction and irony and not flee from them" (p. 273).
            The chief value of this work lies not in its essays on memory and the Civil War. Readers interested
                    in that topic would be better served by examining Race and Reunion. Instead, Beyond the Battlefield provides a succinct introduction to what historians have
                    been saying in the recent past about the differences between and the similarities of history and
                    memory. Blight clearly comes down on the side of convergence—between, for instance,
                    history and literature, and especially poetry and mythology. This work also allows readers to
                    explore the developing thought of an important historian of the Civil War and of African Americans.
            DARREL E. BIGHAM is professor of history and director of
                    Historic Southern Indiana at the University of Southern Indiana, 
                        Evansville
                    . He is a member of the 
                        United States
                     Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission.
         
         
            
               Lee's Last Retreat The Flight to 
                            Appomattox
                        
                By William Marvel, (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 2002. Pp. xiii, 308. Illustrations, maps, appendices, notes, bibliography,
                    sources, index. $29.95.)
            According to Webster's, a revisionist is simply "one who favors revision."
                    Customarily, the term describes a historian who alters previously accepted interpretations of a
                    historical event. In this sense, William Marvel is surely one of the most effective and reliable
                    revisionists in a field—Civil War history—long marked by romance and legend
                    and greatly in need of cleansing. Marvel takes on the tough ones, too: in the past he has considered
                    Ambrose Burnside and Andersonville prison; in this volume he reconsiders Robert E. Lee's
                    storied final campaign. In a foreword, Marvel states that "no episode of the war (perhaps
                    not even 
                        Gettysburg
                    ) has been so particularly affected [by mythology] as the retreat that ended at 
                        Appomattox
                    " (pp. ix–x). After identifying the prior romances, Marvel follows
                    Lee and his beaten Army of Northern 
                        Virginia
                     from the fall of 
                        Richmond
                     and Petersburg to William McLean's 
                        Appomattox
                     home, where Ulysses S. Grant courteously protected the dignity of his adversary while
                    accepting Lee's surrender of what remained of his army.
            The defeat of the Confederacy was the just outcome of its unjust and self–destructive
                    rebellion in behalf of preserving the institution of slavery. Nevertheless, the desperate last
                    flight  of the southern common soldiers is a tragic tale. They
                    were led to that end by their leaders' pathology. It has seldom been acknowledged that six
                    thousand Confederates were killed or wounded in the flight to 
                        Appomattox
                    , in addition to the hundreds of prisoners and deserters lost—senselessly
                    prolonging the agony to serve Lee's personal sense of honor. (See Thomas L. Livermore, Numbers and Losses in the Civi! War in America,
                    1861–1865 [1986], p. 137.)
            As the casualty data suggest, Lee's final retreat was marked by skirmishes along the way,
                    through Amelia Court House, at Farmville (where 8,000 rebels were captured), and at 
                        Appomattox
                     in the early hours of April 9 before the truce. Throughout "the last
                    mile," Lee persisted in driving his soldiers, thus causing the additional loss of life and
                    limb. He finally desisted only when the pursuing Federals literally forced him to do so. General
                    Porter Alexander, Longstreet's artillery commander, described Lee's state of mind
                    as of April 5: 
                        We took the road to Jetersville where it was reported that Sheridan with his cavalry crossed
                            our path & Gen. Lee intended to attack him. I rode with him and his staff &
                            Gen. Longstreet… I never saw Gen. Lee so anxious to bring on a battle in my life
                            as he seemed that afternoon, but a conference with Gen. [WH.E] Lee in command of the
                            Confederate cavalry in our front seemed to upset him greatly. [W.H.F] Lee reported that
                            Sheridan had been reinforced by two infantry corps who were entrenching & that force
                            was more than we could venture to attack. (From Gary W Gallagher, ed., Fighting/or the Confederacy: The Personal Recollections of General Edward Porter
                            Alexander [1989] p. 521.)
                    
                
            William Marvel has done it again. While he says a nice thing about this reviewer along the way, I
                    believe that any conscientious evaluation of this fine history would yield a similarly favorable
                    view of its accomplishments.
            ALAN T. NOLAN is an 
                        Indianapolis
                     lawyer and Civil War writer. His best–known book is Lee
                        Considered: General Robert E. Lee and Civil War History (1991).
         
         
            
               Performing the American Frontier, 1870–1906 By Roger A. Hall (
                        Cambridge
                    , UK: 
                        Cambridge
                     University Press, 2001. Pp. xii, 281. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $55.00.)
            
               Performing the American Frontier, 1870–1906, Roger A. Hall's
                    chronicle of American plays and theatrical productions that treated the subject of the  westward movement, is a theatrical survey in the tradition of Garff B.
                    Wilson, the author of A History of American Acting (1966) and Three
                        Hundred Years of American Drama and Theatre (1973, 1982).
            In a chronologically organized narration, Hall discusses or describes more than fifty plays, devoting
                    special attention to fifteen, among them: Across the Continent (1870); Kit, the 
                            Arkansas
                         Traveller (1871); Davy Crockett (1872); M'liss (1878); My Partner (1879); Jesse James, The
                        Bandit King (1883); In Mizzoura (1893); The Virginian
                    (1904); The Squaw Man (1905); and The Girl of the Golden West
                    (1905). Typical of the author's treatment of these works is his section on My
                        Partner. Here, Hall offers brief biographies of producers Louis Aldrich and Charles T.
                    Parsloe, describes the circumstances that led to the production, provides a synopsis of the play and
                    a summary of the reviews, lists the cast members, engages in a brief analysis of the play's
                    treatment of moral standards and use of a courtroom scene, and traces the effects of the
                    play's success on Aldrich, Parsloe, and playwright Bartley 
                        Campbell
                    .
            Hall's study does extend this basic formula in places. He treats two aspects of the
                    public's fascination with Buffalo Bill: the plays that formed a "craze"
                    beginning in 1872, and William E Cody's own Wild West show and its imitators. Elsewhere,
                    Hall moves somewhat outside the boundaries indicated in the title, including, for example, a
                    description of several "Indian" plays that appeared before 1870, starting with the
                    unproduced Ponteach (written in 1766).
            
               Performing the American Frontier offers a wealth of information, sometimes for its
                    own sake, as when Hall includes details regarding Arthur Mc–Kee Rankin's
                    philandering (p. 102) or relates that Oliver Doud Byron served as a pallbearer for fellow actor
                    Francis S. Chanfrau (p. 47). Hall lists or mentions many more plays than he discusses, and he covers
                    not only the playwrights but also the relevant actors, managers, directors and producers, providing
                    commentary on such figures as Ned Buntline, Martha Jane Canary, John Wallace "Captain
                    Jack" Crawford, Charles E. "Dashing Charlie" Emmett, Kate Mayhew, John B. "
                        Texas
                     Jack" Omohundro, and Anne Pixley. In brief asides to the reader, he suggests
                    connections with recent popular culture, as when he presents My Partner as
                    analogous to "a western movie where Ernest Borgnine marries the heroine" (p. 121)
                    or refutes a negative review of M'liss by suggesting that the feature film Dances With Wolves (1990) had extended, and therefore validated, the potential of the
                    material developed in the 1878 melodrama (p. 113).
            The book is comprehensive, accurate, well–researched, and thoroughly documented from
                    reliable, frequently primary, resources. What some readers will miss is a central argument that
                    Hall's facts might serve. The introduction is by far the most thoughtful portion of the
                    study: Hall argues that the theatre, art, and literature of the 
                    latter nineteenth century developed the frontier images, especially the cowboy heroes, that later
                    became so well known through film and television. He suggests that the frontier experience had, as
                    early as the 1870s, become a form of entertainment for those who could afford to hire someone like
                    Cody to serve as their guide. He explores the notion of heroism, the development of stagecraft in
                    service of scenes involving gunfire and the burning of the prairie, the impact of the frontier
                    landscape, the promise of the West, the link between masculinity and violence, the challenges to
                    traditional femininity, the economic forces behind the westward expansion of the 
                        United States
                    , and the market for entertainment based on a subject of widespread fascination. In this
                    in–traduction lies the potential for an insightful study that would engage the work of
                    scholars like Rosemarie K. Bank and Richard Slotkin, delving into the intricacies of cultural
                    production in relation to the social and perceptual changes that accompanied the concept of
                    frontier. Instead, Hall has chosen a different course, one that provides a different service to the
                    field.
            JEFFREY D. MASON is the author of Melodrama and the Myth of America (1993) and the co–editor, with J. Ellen Gainor, of Performing America: Cultural Nationalism in American Theater (1999). He is
                    professor of theatre arts and the Robert E and Evelyn Nelson Wulf Professor of the Humanities at the
                    University of 
                        Oregon
                    , Eugene.
         
         
            
               Making Men, Making Class The YMCA and Workingmen, 1877–1920 By Thomas
                    Winter (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 2002. Pp. xi, 208. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $40.00; paperbound, $17.00.)
            The cover of Making Men, Making Class features a picture of a shop meeting of
                    rugged male factory workers, three women (clerks?), and a child, all of them listening to the
                    message of two well–dressed evangelists. Interestingly, for a YMCA publicity photo, the
                    image is ambiguous. Its focus is on the female evangelist who seems to be speaking at that moment.
                    Some, including the women, sit attentively. Yet several of the male workers have already shifted
                    their gaze from the speakers; above them, a stern–looking man in a suit appears to be
                    watching the crowd more than the speakers. What is the message being presented by the evangelists?
                    Toward whom is it aimed? For whom was the gathering called?
            For a half century beginning with the railroad strikes of 1877, YMCAs held thousands of factory
                    gatherings for industrial workers, suggesting an agenda much more central to the emergence of
                    corporate capitalism  than is typically assumed. It is Thomas
                    Winter's goal to examine the organization's messages and to recapture its
                    importance in defining class and gender in modern America.
            The YMCA embarked on its appeal to workingmen amid the turmoil of rapidly escalating labor strife in
                    the 1870s. Since railroads were the most visible and despised corporations, they provided the
                    testing ground for the YMCA vision of social harmony. At first, this program involved building
                    character in American males by offering an alternative to the prevalent leisure habits of masculine
                    working–class culture. Employers funded excellent facilities for the
                    "neutral" YMCAs to encourage the self–restraint that fostered
                    "individual acquisitiveness and entrepreneurial drive" (p. 145). But railroad
                    executives always expected that such traits would unite workers and employers in a paternalistic
                    formula emphasizing hard work, efficiency, and upward mobility rather than collective action and
                    conflict. Key to YMCA success was the recruitment of aspiring and moral young men to staff the
                    facilities and sell its ideas to the rough, masculine railroad workers. At first, the recruiting
                    process was haphazard, but it fortunately found a seedbed in the "burned–over
                    district" of upstate 
                        New York
                    .
            By the turn of the century, the YMCA was ready to take its railroad program into the
                    working–class neighborhoods of the nation's cities. There, the professional
                    staff faced new challenges complicated by differences of ethnicity and religion, as well as by labor
                    radicalism. Further, the organization's emphasis on character as a means to individual
                    independence clashed with the reality of declining opportunities for upward mobility. YMCA officials
                    added the notion of "personality" to their lexicon of ideal manhood but defined it
                    in a way that emphasized their own ability to exert a manly dominance over others, in this case the
                    men of the working class. This blending of personality (for the professional staff) and character
                    (which came to mean faithful, productive work for wage earners) enabled YMCA officials to redefine
                    manhood and think of themselves as superior in terms of both gender and class.
            Although Winter's title suggests that the YMCA was "making men" of the
                    working class, his is really much more a story about resolving the identity crisis of
                    middle–class professionals. It thus reminds one of Richard Hofstadter's and
                    Robert H. Wiebe's interpretations of the Progressive Era, updated by cultural history. That
                    is not a flaw, but rather a strength. The book is deeply researched, well–written, and
                    makes a significant contribution to understanding the creation of a modern corporate culture.
                    However, the author missed a terrific opportunity to compare the YMCA with the YWCA, especially
                    given the provocative picture on the cover. YWCA industrial work was subject to the same corporate
                    pressures to emphasize programs that denied collective action and labor reform, but women rejected
                    those demands. The YWCAs  professional staff worked closely with
                    the Women's Trade Union League and the Consumer's League to improve the lives of
                    working women and to usher in modern liberalism rather than corporate paternalism. Putting gender
                    and class at the center of such a comparative organizational study might advance even further our
                    understanding of how the Ys helped sort out the interplay of these identities.
            KENNETH FONES–WOLF is
                    associate professor of history at West 
                        Virginia
                     University, Morgantown.
         
         
            
               Every Farm a Factory The Industrial Ideal in American Agriculture By Deborah
                    Fitzgerald (
                        New Haven
                    , Conn.: Yale University Press, 2003. Pp. xi, 242. Illustrations, appendix, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $45.00.)
            Today the term "factory farm" conjures up images of huge, confined feeding
                    operations (places in which hundreds of thousands of animals are prepared for market on
                    scientifically formulated diets) and of expansive grain farms that cultivate thousands of acres of
                    com, wheat, and soybeans, all requiring heavy capital investment in equipment, hybrid seed, and
                    chemicals. These trends have indeed exerted a significant impact on agriculture in Indiana. While 
                        Clinton County
                     boasts several large hog–feeding operations and DuBois County turkey growers
                    are among the nation's leading producers of birds for the Thanksgiving table, many Hoosier
                    hog farmers find it increasingly difficult to compete with mega–producers in 
                        North Carolina
                     and 
                        Missouri
                    , and southern Indiana dairy farmers who once milked one hundred cows have ceased
                    operation in the face of competition from western dairies that milk between 2,500 and 10,000 cows.
                    Meanwhile, many Hoosier corn and soybean farmers use computers, global–positioning
                    systems, and other technological innovations to improve productivity, increase acreage, and reduce
                    environmental degradation.
            Deborah Fitzgerald's Every Farm a Factory: The Industrial Ideal in American
                        Agriculture says very little about the current state of American agriculture, but it is
                    packed with insights into the origins of industrial agriculture and the consequent process that
                    brought us to where we are today. Looking back from the 1980s, when many farmers went bankrupt after
                    investing heavily in new machinery, land, and livestock, Fitzgerald traces the transformation of
                    American farming to the 1920s, when many farmers, in the wake of the agricultural depression that
                    followed World War I, adopted an "industrial ideal" based on "the five
                    components that characterized nearly every successful factory: large–scale production,
                    specialized  machines, standardization of processes and
                    products, reliance on managerial (rather than artisanal) expertise, and continual evocation of
                    'efficiency' as a production mandate" (pp. 21–23). The
                    prophets of this industrial ideal included agricultural economists and engineers based in the
                    Cooperative Extension Service at land–grant colleges, urban as well as country bankers,
                    farm–implement manufacturers and dealers, and others with a vested interest in persuading
                    farmers to adopt the factory model of production. Reinforcing the gospel were various agencies of
                    the U.S. Department of Agriculture, especially the Bureau of Agricultural Economics.
            The centerpiece of Fitzgerald's essay is a well–crafted "analysis of
                    several industrial farming operations in 
                        Montana
                    , particularly those owned by Thomas D. Campbell, a successful
                    farmer–engineer who attempted to apply industrial principles and techniques of
                    mechanization, expert management, and economies of scale to his operations. Although her analysis
                    focuses on the West, where aridity required large acreage, Fitzgerald takes care to demonstrate that
                    the industrial ideal was adopted at varying rates by farmers in differing regions, depending on
                    their unique combinations of climate and commodities. Built on a broad array of secondary and
                    primary sources, her argument about the origins and development of industrial agriculture is
                    compelling. As an urban–agribusiness historian, I do not fully share her underlying
                    Jef–fersonian agrarianism, which regrets the rise of industrial farming, but my
                    ambivalence in no way detracts from the persuasiveness of her case. I highly recommend this book to
                    anyone attempting to understand the roots of twenty–first–century agriculture.
            CARL E. KRAMER is vice president of Kramer Associates,
                    Inc., a Jeffer–sonville, Indiana, historical consulting firm, and adjunct lecturer in
                    history at Indiana University Southeast in New 
                        Albany
                    . His books include Drovers, Dealers and Dreamers: A History of Bourbon
                        Stock Yards, 1834–1984 (1984); Pride in the Past, Faith in the
                        Future: A History of 
                            Michigan
                         Livestock Exchange, 1922–1997 (1997); and It's Goo–od: A History of the F B. Purnell Sausage Company (2003). He is
                    currently president of the 
                        Louisville
                     Agricultural Club.
         
         
            
               Restoring Women's History through Historic Preservation Edited by Gail
                    Lee Dubrow and Jennifer B. Goodman (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins University Press, 2003. Pp. x, 451. Illustrations, maps, tables,
                    appendices, notes, index. $49.95.)
            The Madame Walker Theater Center in 
                        Indianapolis
                     stands out as one of the very few historic sites on the na– tional landscape
                    officially commemorating the achievements of African–American women. Providing space for
                         arts education and performances, the center occupies the
                    second factory building of Madame C. J. Walker's fabulously successful hair products
                    enterprise. Unfortunately, this site, memorializing a woman's life, is a rarity. As the
                    essays in this anthology testify, the history of American women remains startlingly invisible at the
                    vast majority of the nation's recognized landmarks.
            Preservationists have long acknowledged that women, such as Ann Pamela Cunningham, and
                    women's organizations, such as the 
                        Mount Vernon
                     Ladies' Association of the Union, spearheaded the initial efforts to protect
                    and interpret the nation's historic sites. Academic historians, however, have failed to
                    incorporate the stories of these early preservationists in the larger story of
                    middle–class women's activism in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
                    In one of the volume's most spirited essays, Barbara J. Howe asserts that these women
                    embraced their cause with the same level of intensity as their counterparts in the temperance and
                    suffrage movements. In many cases, their efforts achieved long–lasting success, saving
                    such national treasures as 
                        Mount Vernon
                     and the 
                        Alamo
                    . Ironically, most of these triumphs glorified men's activities, accepting a
                    subordinate position for women.
            Restoring women's place on the historic landscape will be a complex project requiring
                    changes in research methodology, professional practice, and public perceptions. In recognition of
                    this fact, the editors have divided the volume into five parts. Part one highlights the need to
                    document women's contribution to the preservation movement. Part two focuses on the
                    practical problems of interpreting women's history at official museums and sites. In part
                    three, several authors propose methods and paradigms for understanding women's connection
                    to the physical environment of the past. Part four acknowledges successful efforts by communities,
                    states, and countries to identify, document, and protect women's history sites. In part
                    five, several contributors look at the big picture, attempting to establish a national agenda for
                    placing women on the historic landscape. It is clear, however, that we have some way to go before a
                    coherent policy emerges.
            Preservation ideology itself is a stumbling block. As Abigail A. Van Slyck points out in an
                    interesting essay on saving public libraries, preservationists have long focused on saving exteriors
                    rather than interior spaces. This well–established bias tends to emphasize the
                    achievements of male architects and craftsmen, who designed and erected the buildings, over the
                    activities of women, who occupied their interior spaces. In the case of public libraries, women
                    often filed the catalog cards, served the patrons, and sat behind the service desks. Destroying the
                    interiors of these buildings, while preserving the outer shells, destroys the evidence of these
                    women's labor.
            It is not enough to commemorate the extraordinary success of a few women, such as Madame Walker. The
                         editors of this volume advocate an "inclusive
                    agenda," which will require identifying and protecting buildings, structures, and
                    landscapes associated with the dazzling variety of women's experiences on this continent.
                    This excellent volume offers no easy solutions, but suggests lines of thought for future scholars,
                    professionals, and preservation advocates.
            BONNIE STEPENOFF is professor of history at Southeast 
                        Missouri
                     State University, Cape Girardeau, where she was coordinator of the Historic
                    Preservation Program from 1995 to 2003. She is the author of two books, including most recently Thad Snow: A Life of Social Reform in the 
                            Missouri
                         Bootheel (2003).
         
         
            
               Sloan Rules Alfred P. Sloan and the Triumph of General Motors By David Farber (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 2002. Illustrations, notes, index. $27.50.)
            
               Making and Selling Cars Innovation and Change in the U.S. Automotive Industry By
                    James M. Rubenstein (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins University Press, 2001. Pp. ix, 401. Illustrations, figures, tables,
                    maps, notes, bibliography, index. $45.00.)
            In Sloan Rules David Farber has written an informative, balanced, and highly
                    readable account of the life and impact of one of the most important figures in American business.
                    Other historians and commentators, notably Alfred D. Chandler and Peter F Drucker, have outlined
                    Sloan's role in creating the vertically integrated corporation, but they focused on Sloan
                    as efficient, rational, and objective— in short, the consummate businessman. Although
                    Farber covers some aspects of this story, his contribution here is to sketch out Sloan's
                    life and business career before General Motors, and then to examine the ways that Sloan put his
                    influence and con– siderable financial resources behind an agenda Farber calls
                    "corporate conservatism." This included strenuously opposing not only government
                    safety standards for automobiles, but also most aspects of the New Deal (as did many other business
                    leaders of the day, to be sure). Throughout his long career as the head of General Motors, Sloan put
                    corporate well–being before all other concerns. At the same time, however, Farber points
                    out that Sloan also created the Sloan–Kettering Institute for Cancer Research and the
                    Alfred P Sloan Foundation. Farber has produced an account that contributes to our understanding of
                    the larger issue of the influence of private money,  trade
                    associations, and corporate public relations upon governmental policies and effectiveness.
            Farber describes numerous examples of Sloan's single–minded pursuit of corporate
                    profit and violent opposition to government "interference" in any form from the
                    beginning of the Depression onward. Among these were his creation of the Automobile Safety
                    Foundation—which for decades successfully forestalled legislation that would have
                    increased automobile makers' responsibilities— and his generous support (along
                    with members of the DuPont family) of the xenophobic, anti–Semitic American Liberty
                    League to oppose the election of Franklin D. Roosevelt and other New Deal candidates. Sloan also
                    deployed his own wealth and the formidable public relations machinery of GM to oppose most New Deal
                    programs. Later, in the 1940s, Sloan only reluctantly switched to war production. All this Sloan did
                    in the name of protecting GM profits and business autonomy.
            As Farber cautions, Sloan's private life and thoughts will probably remain unknown, given a
                    lack of documentation and Sloan's flat refusal to talk about himself. Under these
                    constraints, it would have been better if Farber had left out speculative passages about
                    personalities and how Sloan and others felt or acted in private circumstances. This, though, is a
                    minor complaint about a book which adds a new layer to our understanding of the term
                    "Sloanism."
            In Making and Selling Cars, James M. Rubenstein has taken on the
                    extremely ambitious task of describing the production and marketing of automobiles in the U.S., 
                        Japan
                    , and Europe. For readers with a particular interest in the automobile industry or
                    business history generally, Rubenstein offers a broad overview covering the earliest days of the
                    American industry down to the present. He discusses parts production and supply, modes of
                    production, labor, marketing, and the rise of today's global market. The first half of the
                    book addresses manufacturing; the second, sales. Within each half, Rubenstein arranges topics in
                    paired thematic chapters. In odd–numbered chapters, he offers a synthesis of the early
                    history of the industry, which witnessed the introduction of mass–production and
                    standardization. Even–numbered chapters treat more recent developments, encompassing
                    roughly the last quarter century. Examples include the replacement of the Fordist paradigm with a
                    model based on Japanese "flexible production," and changing expectations and hopes
                    for the labor force, ending with a summary of recent activity in other Asian countries, notably 
                        China
                    . Rubenstein illuminates aspects mostly neglected in standard histories of the industry,
                    particularly in his treatment of Japanese automobile production, which includes an account of how
                    U.S. companies responded, and of the cross–fertilization that eventually led to the
                    present international market.
            
            In adding coverage of the last twenty–five years to the classic narratives of the
                    automobile industry by James J. Flink and John B. Rae, Rub–enstein has helped address a
                    long–felt need. The chapters dealing with recent history will particularly interest
                    readers who want to know about the global automobile business since the various crises and
                    challenges that the American industry faced beginning in the 1970s. Specialist readers may wish
                    Rubenstein had utilized more of the recent literature on the larger implications of consumerism,
                    installment buying, marketing, and advertising. More could also have been said about the
                    long–term side effects of the automobile industry, such as safety, environmental damage,
                    and the complicated story of government subsidies which have helped from its earliest days to make
                    the industry possible. Despite these issues, for readers seeking an overview of the industry
                    Rub–enstein's book offers a useful profile, especially for the last quarter
                    century.
            ROBERT BUERGLENER is completing a doctoral dissertation in
                    history at the University of 
                        Chicago
                     on the cultural and social roles of the early automobile driver in the 
                        United States
                     from 1895 to the First World War.
         
         
            
               America's New Downtowns Revitalization or Reinvention? By Larry R. Ford (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins University Press, 2003. Pp. vh, 340. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $45.00.)
            This is a book with a purpose that succeeds admirably in not becoming partisan. It is a serviceable
                    book that does what it sets out to do, which is to create a vocabulary of comparative terms for
                    assessing American downtowns. Is it fun to read? Not particularly. Is it useful? That depends on
                    what you want as a reader. This is a book of information, not big ideas. And if it is information
                    about downtowns you are after, then this may be the book for you.
            Ford's work enters a field already well established, which might be referred to loosely as
                    contemporary city studies. It is a field that starts, maybe, with Jane Jacobs and The
                        Death and Life of Great American Cities (1961), and proceeds through the work of, among
                    others, William H. Whyte in City: Rediscovering the Center (1988), Richard
                    Sennett's philosophizing in The Conscience of the Eye: the Design and Social
                        Life of Cities (1990,1992), and on to the postmodernist Mike Davis's City of Quartz: Excavating the Future in 
                            Los Angeles
                        
                (1990, 1992), and more recent works such as Thomas Bender's The Unfinished City: 
                            New York
                         and the Metropolitan Idea (2002), and Robert M. Fogelson's Downtown:
                    
                    Its Rise and Fall, 1880–1950 (2001), to which Ford's book
                    bears an immediate resemblance.
            But Ford's work is distinctive in an important way. A geographer on the faculty of San Diego
                    State University for more than 30 years, Ford is not out to intellectualize or interpret so much as
                    he is to describe, and his object is not the city as a whole, but only the downtown: "My
                    goal is to add to our understanding of just what the American downtown has been and what it is
                    becoming. … I feel that we need to describe downtown before we can critique it
                    adequately" (p. 5). To that end, he studies sixteen downtowns of American metropolitan
                    areas with populations between one and three million, downtowns that he knows well and has visited
                    over a period of years: 
                        Atlanta
                    , Seattle, 
                  Cleveland, Minneapolis
               , San Diego, Phoenix, 
                  St. Louis, Baltimore,
                            Pittsburgh, Denver, Portland, Indianapolis
               , San Antonio, 
                        Columbus
                    , Charlotte, and 
                        Providence
                    . Each is amply illustrated with photographs and drawings.
            Each of the sixteen downtowns is graded qualitatively relative to ten variables: physical site,
                    street morphology, civic space, office/skyline, retail anchors, hotels/convention facilities, major
                    attractions, historic districts/support zones, residential activity and variety, and transit
                    options. Each downtown ends up with a composite score, by means of which it can be compared to
                    others. Seattle finishes at the top (91 out of 100 points), Charlotte at the bottom, with a score of
                    48. 
                        Indianapolis
                     comes in for a solid 74, in a tie with 
                        Minneapolis
                    . "The goal," Ford says, "is to clarify what works and what
                    does not as cities enter the twenty–first century. … I propose a series of
                    generalizations on downtown morphology that I hope will elucidate the processes at work in the new
                    American downtown" (p. 278).
            Ford does not discover anything that people living in his selected cities do not already know.
                    Consider, for example, his conclusion about downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                    : "While all of the downtowns on the list have made great strides over the past
                    two decades, 
                        Indianapolis
                     is a leading candidate for the 'most improved' award. …
                    Today, the city has a lively, compact core and a strong image as a sports and convention center.
                    … The downtown core still has relatively poor connections to most of the surrounding
                    neighborhoods, although major improvements are being made, especially toward the White
                        River" (p. 286). The value of Ford's study lies not in its
                    political or cultural insight, but rather in the kind of conclusion–making that his
                    comparable data facilitate.
            His overall conclusion is a vote for what (without any implied negative) might be called a
                    Disney–fied downtown: "I present the final composite generalization: the linear,
                    Disneylandlike, megastructure–buffered, amenity–oriented,
                    civic–centered, greater downtown special event venue model. … The pieces may
                    vary from city to city,  but the linear organization,
                    amenity–orientation, big–footprint buildings, and distinctive subdistricts
                    characterize nearly all successful downtowns" (p. 308). Ford's findings are not
                    path–breaking, probably, but his conclusions are well worth considering.
            JERRY HERRON is professor of English and American Studies,
                    and director of the honors program at 
                        Wayne
                     State University in 
                  Detroit, Michigan
               . His books include Universities and the Myth of Cultural Decline (1988), and AjterCulture: 
                            Detroit
                         and the Humiliation of History (1993). He is currently finishing a book about
                    Americans' sense of the past: "Not From 
                        Detroit
                    : An All–Purpose Guide to American Forgetting."
         
         
         
            REVIEW NOTICES
            
                    Letters from Elmira's Trunk An Indiana Family in the Civil War
                
            Edited by Carolyn S. Bridge and Marilyn Bridge 
                        Brown
                    
            
            (West 
                        Lafayette
                    , Ind.: Twin Publications, 2002. Pp. xxiii, 134. Illustrations, notes, bibliography,
                    index. Paperbound, $11.95. Order from the publisher at 4636 Jackson Highway, West 
                        Lafayette
                    , IN 47906, 765–583–0316.)
            This volume began when the editors' father purchased a box of old letters dating from the
                    1860s through the 1920s; his purchase provided a view into Indiana's past through the eyes
                    of the members of two families, the Cateys and the Scotts. The editors have reproduced and annotated
                    selected Civil War–era letters from the collection, including many photographs of the
                    letters and their writers. There are numerous helpful explanatory footnotes, a family tree, and an
                    appendix of biographical notes. This book would be a good addition to the collections of Civil War
                    enthusiasts with an interest in Indiana's volunteer regiments.
            
               A Good Night for Freedom By Barbara Olenyik Morrow, illustrated by Leonard Jenkins (
                        New York
                    : Holiday House, 2004. Illustrations, author's note, illustrator's
                    note, recommended reading, places to visit, websites. Pp. 30. Clothbound, $16.95.)
            Morrow's A Good Night for Freedom, a work of historical fiction intended
                    for readers ages five to nine, is a story of escape from slavery. Based on the author's
                    research of the Underground Railroad in antebellum southern Indiana, the book tells the story of a
                    pair of runaway slave sisters and the moral struggle of the young white girl who stumbles upon them
                    in a cellar at the home of Levi and Katy Coffin. The sisters, Susan and Margaret, were, like the
                    Coffins, real people. The white girl, Hallie, faces the same moral dilemma that Huckleberry Finn
                    deals with in deciding whether or not to turn in the runaway slave, Jim; Hallie makes the same
                    decision that Huck does and lies to the slavehunters who are seeking the sisters. Illustrator
                    Leonard Jenkins uses spray paint, pastel, colored pencil, and acrylic to  create an otherworldly effect. A winter landscape of stark trees and
                    harsh skies rendered in unexpectedly strong colors enhances the feeling of danger. A
                        Good Night for Freedom is a useful vehicle for introducing the concept of moral
                    responsibility to children at the age when they are beginning to truly think for themselves.
            
                    The Role of St. Meinrad Abbey
                    in the Formation of Catholic
                    Identity in the Diocese of
                    
                  
                            Vincennes
                        , 1853–1898
                
            By Peter Yock
            ([St. Meinrad, Ind.j, 2001. Notes, maps, appendices, bibliography. Paperbound, $14.95.
                    Contact the Scholar Shop, St. Meinrad Archabbey, 200 Hill Drive, St. Meinrad, IN 47577, or
                    scholarshoj3@saintmeinrad.edu.)
            Anyone with an interest in the history of the Catholic church in Indiana will already be familiar
                    with St. Meinrad Abbey and its training of priests and theologians for both the state and the
                    region. As the abbey passes its 150th anniversary, this book provides a look at its early history.
                    The author includes chapters on the Benedictines (the abbey's founding order) in both
                    Europe and America, the founding and staffing of American parishes, the abbey's role in
                    shaping regional Catholic identity through its missions, societies, and worship, and the central
                    role played by the abbey school. Yock draws extensively on the abbey's archives to tell the
                    story of these years. The book is recommended for readers interested in the history of early
                    Catholicism in the state and the Midwest. Perhaps this well–researched and detailed work
                    will inspire the complete 150–year history which St. Meinrad's deserves.
            
                    Children of the Mill
                
            
                    Schooling and Society in Gary
                    Indiana, 1906–1960
                
            By Ronald D. Cohen
            (
                        New York
                    : Routledge, 2002. Pp. xviii, 280. Map, illustrations, note on sources, notes, index.
                    Paperbound, $25.95.)
            Many long–time readers of the IMH will welcome the republication of this
                    book; others with an interest in state history, the history of education, or urban history who have
                    not read Cohen's book should do so. The author examines the unique progressive school plan
                    developed for the new city of Gary by progressive educator William Wirt. He follows the initial
                    implementation of the Wirt system through wars, the Depression, and the early challenges of
                    integration in the 1950s. The book was (at its first publication in 1990) and still is, in the words
                    of education historian William J. Reese in his new foreword, "…a landmark volume
                    in the shaping of the historiography of American education" (p. xii).
            
            
                    Greetings from Indiana
                
            
                    Vintage Hoosier Postcards
                
            By Robert Reed
            (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2003. Pp. xvii, 176. Illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    Paperbound, $24.95.)
            Reed, a journalist, introduces this beautifully produced book and provides textual background to each
                    chapter. The glory of the book, however, is in its full–color illustrations of hundreds
                    of vintage postcards. There are street scenes, pictures of libraries, factories, churches, parks,
                    and homes, and scenes of ordinary people at work and at leisure. Racing fans will be fascinated by a
                    1909 sky–view of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Motor Speedway, surrounded by farms and open greenspace; longtime residents of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     will enjoy a 1914 view of Engine House No. 3, widi its five horse–drawn fire
                    trucks. The book will be of interest to anyone who loves vintage photographs and postcards and
                    pictorial representations of Indiana history. II
            
                    More Amazing Tales from
                    Indiana
                
            By Fred D. Cavinder
            (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2003. Pp. xii, 193. Illustrations. Paperbound,
                    $14.95.)
            Discover why a Hoosier pioneer was buried standing up and why General Sherman's children
                    were in 
                        South Bend
                     during the Civil War. Find out which Indiana town is the birthplace of three governors
                    and which had a bridge without a road leading to it. This book contains dozens of stories from the
                    1780s to the 1990s about now–forgotten Hoosier movie stars, athletes, politicians, and
                    regular folks. An index could help readers return to their favorite stories, and source citations
                    would help the researchers of tomorrow follow up on the fascinating leads provided.
            
               The Greatest Basketball Story Ever Told The Milan Miracle, 50th Anniversary Edition
                    By Greg Guffey Foreword by Bob Hammel (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2003. Pp. xxxiii, 205. Illustrations. Paperbound,
                    $17.95.)
            Drawing almost exclusively on reminiscences and box scores, Guffey assembles chapters on the town of
                    Milan, the team's regular seasons and tournaments of 1953 and 1954, and the lives of the
                    coach and each of the players since beating 
                        Muncie
                     Central in the 1954 state final. Along the way there are photos from the 1950s and
                    comparisons to the film Hoosiers (1987), but little development of individual
                    personality or broader familial and cultural context. The 1993 conclusion is a prediction that
                    one–class basketball would never die in Indiana, while the 2003 introduction registers
                    the reactions of the book's subjects to the 1996 decision to implement a
                    multi–class tournament.
            
            
               How Congress Works and Why You Should Care By Lee H. Hamilton (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2004. Pp. viii, 156. Appendix, notes, index. Clothbound,
                    $29.95; paperbound, $14.95.)
            
               
                        Hamilton
                    , southern Indiana's former representative in the U. S. House of
                    Representatives, uses anecdotes and experiences from over thirty years in 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , to illustrate the importance and function of Congress. He responds to common public
                    criticisms of Congress (that crooks and lobbyists promote gridlock and pork–barrel
                    legislation because they are out of touch and untrustworthy) and outlines ways that the institution
                    could be more efficient (by enforcing ethics and civility, communicating with the White House, and
                    budgeting biennially rather than annually). He concludes by describing ways that citizens can
                    participate, including suggestions on how to make your correspondence stand out from the 250 million
                    other letters received on Capitol Hill.
            
                    
                  
                            Kentucky
                        's Last Great Places
                
            By Thomas G. Barnes
            (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 2002. Pp. xii, 204. Illustrations, index, references. Clothbound, $32.50.)
            Barnes undertakes to preserve, in prose and photographs, the remnant (less than one percent) of 
                        Kentucky
                     still left as it was before European Americans reworked the topography.
            The book, a "natural" for the coffee table of anyone who loves the
                    Blue–grass State, is a product of thirteen years of exploring woodlands and grasslands.
                    The author is extension wildlife specialist and associate professor of forestry at the University of 
                        Kentucky
                    ; his one–hundred–plus color photographs speak for themselves of
                    his artistry with a camera. The pictures range from panoramic views of the Big South Fork of the
                        Cumberland River (p. 123) and Robinson Forest in full fall dress (pp.
                    94–95), to an intimate close–up of the rare grass pink orchid (p. 7). The
                    two–page spread of snow geese filling the night sky horizon at moonrise is hauntingly
                    beautiful (pp. 178–79). The book is geared for the general reader, yet those with
                    stronger backgrounds in natural science will not be bored. One cannot leaf through the pages of this
                    book without feeling a strong urge to see these wild places, but because many of the sites are in
                    private hands, the only access to them is through Barnes's pictures and words.
            
               Governors' Mansions of the Midwest By Ann Liberman Photographs by Alise
                    O'Brien (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 2003. Pp. xii, 172. Illustrations, bibliography, index. $34.95.)
            Those interested in architecture, interior design, and historic homes will  enjoy the text and lavish illustrations of Governors' Mansions. Liberman provides short histories of how twelve midwestern
                    states found proper and permanent residences for their governors, as well as offering a more
                    detailed discussion of each state's existing mansion. The story of Indiana's
                    governor's mansion takes many twists and turns before ending with the purchase of a 1928
                    mansion on Indi–anapolis's North Meridian Street in 1974. It is intriguing that
                    Indiana had no official governor's residence between 1865 and 1919 and that governors in
                    that period had to find their own housing.
            
               Painting the Dark Side Art and the Gothic Imagination in Nineteenth–Century
                        America By Sarah Burns (Berkeley: University of 
                        California
                     Press, 2004. Pp. xxiii, 303. Illustrations, notes, index. $39.95.)
            Examining eight American "gothic" painters (as well as making reference to many
                    other artists and writers), Burns seeks "the art of haunting," which manifests
                    itself as a critique of "the Enlightenment vision of the rational American Republic as a
                    place of liberty, balance, harmony, and progress" (p. xix). Personal and
                    socio–cultural ghosts haunt these painters and the images they created. Burns argues that
                    critics should not view gothic paintings as the antithesis of quintessentially American
                    nineteenth–century landscape paintings, but in stead as part of the canon as "
                    [gothic painting] expands and complicates the canon and suggests productive ways of rethinking
                    it" (p. xxiii).
            
               To Live and Die Collected Stories of the Civil War, 1861–1876 Edited by
                    Kathleen Diffley (Durham, N.C.: Duke University Press, 2002. Pp. xiii, 429. Illustrations, notes,
                    glossary, bibliographic essay, index. $34.95.)
            Americans are partial to absorbing their nation's history via fiction, the history mingled
                    among the adventures and romances of made–up characters with whom they might better
                    identify than with the likes of generals and presidents. Until the advent of television, much of
                    American historical fiction was disseminated through popular magazines, notably the Saturday Evening Post, in the form of short stories. This volume of thirty–one
                    such stories from the eve of the Civil War through the end of Reconstruction affords
                    today's readers the opportunity to see the events and people of the period from the
                    perspective of contemporaries. The periodicals represented include Atlantic Monthly,
                        Harper's Weekly, Southern Magazine, and Overland Monthly. Most
                    of the authors of these stories have long been forgotten; Louisa May Alcott and Samuel Clemens (Mark
                    Twain) are the exceptions. The subjects range from an attack on the Underground Railroad to the
                    reminiscences of a former slave.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
