
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 011, Issue 3, pages 187-284. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:011+issue:3+year:1915&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
      
         
         
            Browsing Around Among Old Books*
            
            By DANIEL WAIT HOWE, President of Indiana Historical Society
            When I gave the subject of this paper to the committee having in charge the announcement of subjects
                    for the ensuing year, I had little thought of what I should tack to it that would fit the text. As
                    soon as I began to write I discovered that my subject was capable of indefinite expansion. In fact,
                    like old John Gilpin, "I little dreamt when I set out of running such a rig."
            I begin by anticipating and admitting the truth of the criticism which I foresee will be made, that
                    this paper was written by an old fogy who, in the last fifty years, has not progressed with
                    sufficient rapidity to meet all modern requirements.
            I have always liked to nose about an old second-hand book store. It is like wandering through an old
                    curiosity shop. What strange old books we stumble upon—historical, political, religious,
                    philosophical, scientific, poetical—all in a jumble. We are pretty certain to find
                    Rollins's Ancient History and a lot of other old histories and
                    encyclopedias. We shall be likely to find Josephus, Plutarch's Lives,
                        Tupper's Proverbial Philosophy, and Dick's Works, and a
                    lot of old school books, Morse's Geography, Kirk-ham's Grammar, 
                            Pike
                        's Arithmetic, McGuffey's Readers, and perhaps some of Webster's Spelling Books and a lot of old atlases. We shall also be
                    likely to find some of Peter Parley's children's books and other
                    juveniles of a past age. Probably we shall find some old theological books—Clarke on the Promises and Bunyan's Pilgrim's
                    Progress, lying peacefully side by side with Paine's Age
                    
                  
                     *Read before the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Literary Club, February 8, 1915.
               
                     of Reason, Jack Shepherd, and The
                        Pirate's Own Book. We shall also find a great number of novels, mostly very old
                    ones, Thaddeus of 
                            Warsaw
                        , Scottish Chiefs, and Children of the Abbey, a lot of
                    Maryatt's and perhaps some of Maria Edgeworth's Popular and Moral
                        Tales. We shall be certain to find a large and miscellaneous assortment of old-timers that
                    we never heard of before. Mingled with these we may possibly find a few law books, mournful remains
                    of some young lawyer whose conscience forbade his charging fees commensurate with the value of his
                    services, and some old medical books, full of jaw-breaking terms that frightened some young medical
                    student into abandoning his chosen profession.
            As for myself, I never could go into a second-hand book store and get out without buying a book. I
                    suppose that I was an easy mark for dealers in old library junk. Occasionally I have an opportunity,
                    of which I always gladly avail myself, of rummaging around in old closets, in attics and garrets,
                    and picking out old books that have been handed down from generation to generation and have finally
                    been tucked away in dark corners where they have not seen daylight for years; some that were worth
                    something once, some that were never worth anything.
            I have always been interested in reading about old libraries and in knowing what kind of books were
                    in them. When John Bunyan wrote Pilgrim's Progress, a large part of it
                    having been written while he was in prison, he had only two books, the Bible and Fox's Book of Martyrs.
            We have a hint of some of the books in the library of Judge Sewall, of 
                        Boston
                    , as far back as the year 1700. Sewall was a great lover of books. Here are the names of
                    a few of the books ordered by him from 
                        London
                    —with which doubtless most of the members of this Club are familiar: Ars Cogitandi (2), Le Grand's Philosophy (Latin), Heerboordi Meletomata (3), Dr. Charleton's Physiologia,
                    Dr. Moor's Immortality of the Soul, Metaphysics, Ethicks,
                    Glanvil's Sceptis ScientMca, Dr. Wilkin's Natural
                        Principles, and Duties, his World in the Moon,
                    Stallius, his Regulae Phylosophicae, Stierij Questiones Physicae
                        cum Praeceptis, Philo-sophiae, Burgerdicius, Logick with Heerebord's Notes, the
                    great Historical, Geographical and Poetical Dictionary being a curious Misscellany
                    of Sacred and Prophane History printed at 
                        London
                     for Henry Rhodes.
            
            One of the earliest known public libraries in the Northwest Territory was a library established in 
                        Athens county
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , about the year 1804, long known as the "coon-skin" library. It was
                    so called because the books were bought, generally in 
                        Boston
                    , in exchange for coon-skins and for the skins of other fur-bearing animals, mostly
                    those shot and trapped by the farmer boys of the neighborhood. The first purchases, we are told,
                    included the following: Robertson's North America, Harris's Encyclopedia, 4 Vols., Morse's Geography, 2 Vols.,
                    Adams's Truth of Religion, Goldsmith's Works, 4 Vols., Eveline, 2 Vols., Children of the Abbey, 2 Vols., Blair's Letters, Clarke's Discoveries,
                    Ramsey's American Revolution, Goldsmith's Animated
                        Nature, 4 Vols., Play-fair's History of Jacobinism, George Barnwell,
                        Camilla, 3 Vols., Beggar Girl, 3 Vols. Later purchases included: Shakespeare, Don Quixote, Locke's Essay, Scottish Chiefs, Josephus,
                    Smith's Wealth of Nations, Spectator, Plutarch's Lives, Arabian
                        Nights, Life of 
                            Washington
                        
               .
            It may be noted that fiction was well represented in this list and that the novels were pretty well
                    up to date, including the latest English novel, Madame &Dcar;Arblay's Camilla. French novels had not then made their appearance in this country.
            Speaking about old books suggests a query: When is a book to be regarded as old? This is a question
                    as difficult, although not quite so delicate, as one about a lady's age. Some books age
                    prematurely. Most novels are of this kind. Some of them are regarded as old in six months; some in a
                    year; most of them in two years; some, like Robinson Crusoe, seem to be endued
                    with perpetual youth.
            This question naturally leads to a consideration of the vitality of books. A few, like old classics,
                    have lasted for centuries. The poets seem to live longest, but the list of English poets whose
                    poetical works have lived over one hundred years is surprisingly small. Some great orations of
                    Demosthenes and Cicero have come down through the ages, and some of Pitt's and
                    Burke's and Fox's are still read. Of the great American orations how many are read
                    today? Patrick Henry's speech on the Stamp Act is still read and still declaimed by the
                    school boys. Webster's reply to Hayne and a few other of his speeches still live. 
                        Lincoln
                    's 
                        Gettysburg
                     address will be read as long as the American nation lasts. Of all the American speeches
                    in the last fifty years I recall but  one that will probably be
                    read in the next century. That is the speech of Colonel Robert Ingersoll, delivered in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1876, or rather that portion of it beginning with the words: "The past
                    rises before me like a dream." I heard all of it, standing in a drizzling rain within a few
                    feet of the orator. I have read it many times since, and its eloquence always thrills me anew.
            A considerable part of the literature of the seventeenth century consisted of books of a religious
                    cast, sermons, tracts, discussions and the like. This was so in 
                        England
                    , especially in the Cromwellian period. Carlyle tells us of this kind of literature and
                    its fate.
            
                    "The Fast-day Sermons of St. Margaret's Church Westminister, in spite of
                        printers, are all grown dumb! In long rows of little dumpy quartos, gathered from the book
                        stalls, they indeed stand here bodily before us; by human volition they can be read, but not by
                        any human memory remembered. We forget them as soon as read; they have become a weariness to the
                        soul of man. They are dead and gone, they and what they shadowed; the human soul, got into other
                        latitudes, cannot now give harbour to them."
                
            Nearly all the literature in New 
                        England
                     during the seventeenth century was of 
                        Puritan
                     cast. One of them, John Norton's The Orthodox Evangelist,
                    published in 
                        Boston
                     in 1654, I have tried time and again to understand, but I never could grasp its
                    meaning.
            I suppose that theological students still read some of Hooker's and Jonathan
                    Edward's sermons. Perhaps they are read by others out of curiosity to see if they still
                    smell of fire and brimstone as has been charged. This reminds me that I once wanted to examine the
                    volume of Jonathan Edward's works, containing his celebrated sermon on A
                        Sinner in the Hands of an Angry God, one which it has been said New 
                        England
                     may have forgiven but has never forgotten. I asked Mr. Fishback, a former President of
                    this Club, if he could loan me the volume, when he answered with some warmth that he did not have
                    it, but that if he had it the first thing he would do would be to burn it. This is not one of the
                    volumes that I ever skim, through for amusement. I hope, however, to vindicate myself against the
                    suspicion of hopeless heresy by saying that I have some theological books in my library which I can
                    read, and which I do sometimes read, with interest and profit, and without having a nightmare. Among
                    these are the sermons  of two members whose names are still
                    honored in this Club, Reverend Oscar McCullough and Reverend Myron Reed.
            As illustrating the vitality of books, let us consider those of the Elizabethan age, a great age in
                    English literature, and not so far back when we measure time by centuries. Of course,
                    Shakespeare's works stand pre-eminent. His fame increases rather than diminishes. But
                    Shakespeare was the greatest literary creative genius that ever lived. He is the product not of one
                    only, but of many centuries. Next to Shakespeare stands 
                        Milton
                    . He is still recognized as standing at the head of English epic poets. Daniel Webster,
                    the prince of American orators, in the greatest of his orations, his reply to Hayne, drew from Paradise Lost the most striking of his illustrations. Still, I think it may be
                    safely affirmed that Paradise Lost was not as popular in the middle of the
                    nineteenth century as it was at the beginning of it, and that it is not as generally read now,
                    either in 
                        England
                     or America, as it was fifty years ago. Spenser's Fairy
                    Queen, so noted in its day, is, of course, remembered, and the adventures of the Red Cross
                    Knight and the fair Una are still read, but only by a very small minority of reading people. In the
                    preface to Hart's Essay on the Fairy Queen, published in 1847, the author
                    says: "Spenser was once regarded as the great storehouse of moral and intellectual truth.
                    But the fashion of literature changes and the Fairy Queen has now become not
                    unlike a half-decayed and unfrequented cathedral of the olden time." How many now read
                    Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress in comparison with the number of
                    those who read it fifty or one hundred years ago when more copies of it were sold than were copies
                    of any other book except the Bible.
            How many other books of the Elizabethan age have been forgotten or their names, if remembered at all,
                    are remembered only by a few explorers of literary ruins? How many of the orations, the poems, the
                    novels, since the Elizabethan age and before the beginning of the Victorian age, are read by any
                    considerable number of people today? Here is a list of the poet-laureates of 
                        England
                     since 1670 as given in Chambers's Encyclopedia: John Dryden, Nahum Tate,
                    Nicholas Rowe, Laurence Ensden, Colley Cibber, William Whitehead, Thomas Wharton, Henry James Tye,
                    Robert Southey, William Wordsworth and Alfred Tennyson. We remember Colley Cibber, not for his
                    poetry, but because of his Apology, for his life. We remember Dryden and we still
                    read  Wordsworth and Tennyson; but who reads the poems and how
                    many remember even the names of the others? How many books of the nineteenth century may we safely
                    affirm will be read at the end of the twentieth?
            In order to curtail within a reasonable limit what I have to say about old books, I shall be obliged
                    to restrict my remarks to those generally read in the days of my boyhood and young
                    manhood—say between 1850 and 1860—excluding the old classics, scientific
                    works, political books, and books read principally by students and scholars.
            I was born on October 24, 1839. 
                        Milton
                     thought that he had been born an age too late. I am glad that I was born into this
                    world just when I was. I am glad that I was born in the nineteenth century; that I was born in a
                    progressive and not a decadent age; that I was born in America; that I was born in a republic. It
                    was an age of great beginnings; science was expanding; in Europe the people were chafing against
                    despotism and questioning the divine right of kings; in 
                        England
                     they were clamoring for reforms in government; civil and religious liberty were
                    growing; Victoria was crowned Queen of 
                        England
                     in 1838 and the great Victorian age began. Nowhere was civilization making more rapid
                    strides than in America. Literature everywhere felt the touch of progress, but it is of literature
                    as it was about the middle of the nineteenth century and of books then generally read that I wish
                    more particularly to speak.
            In the early fifties I lived in the family of Samuel P. Oyler, my step-father, in 
                        Franklin
                    , the county seat of 
                        Johnson county
                    , in Indiana. There was no public library in the town. The State Legislature had made
                    provision in 1852 for a system of public township libraries, but the system soon broke down and the
                    books in the 
                        Franklin
                     township library disappeared..
            The Indiana State library was established in 1825, but did not make much of a showing until after
                    1850. Even in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the capital of the state, there was no public city library until 1871.
            Nevertheless we had books. There was a small but good collection in the 
                        Franklin
                     College library. There were several very good private libraries in the town, and the
                    owners were liberal in loaning their books. My step-father was a great lover of books and he had a
                    considerable and very good collection of them, which I now have and which includes many of the books
                    mentioned,  and many more that are not mentioned, in this paper.
                    Among his books were some old histories, including Robertson's History of the
                        Middle Ages; some philosophical works, such as the philosophies of 
                        Brown
                     and Cousins, a few scientific books, and some books of a theological cast, such as
                    Gregory's History of the Church, Jews' Letters to Voltaire,
                    Ranke's History of the Reformation, John Norton's Orthodox Evangelist, and sermons and discourses sufficient for a small family; also
                    Edward's book on Spiritualism, which had begun to be talked about.
            His library also included a large number of biographies, some collections, such as
                    Coleridge's Biographia Literaria, Creasy's Eminent
                        Etonians, and a great number of individual biographies. Among these was Weems's
                        Life of 
                            Washington
                        
               , published in 1837, in which the good rector who wrote it told about the
                    hatchet and the cherry tree and other stories illustrating the pious training of the Father of His
                    Country. These long remained, but were finally exploded by Sparks and other iconoclastic historians,
                    who showed that, notwithstanding his early training, that illustrious man had some of the failings
                    of other mortals, one of them being that he was liable to give way to violent paroxysms of rage in
                    which he was apt to swear like a trooper. My step-father's library contained several
                    dramatic works, including those of Shakespeare, Beaumont and Fletcher, Boker, Ben Jonson, Massinger,
                    and Bul-wer, but I must admit that I never read any but those of Shakespeare. In the library were
                    also many poetical works, including those of 
                        Milton
                    , Dryden, Pope, Wordsworth, Burns, Byron, Moore, Scott, Tupper, 
                        Montgomery
                    , Ossian, Praed, Mrs. Hemans, Eliza Cook and several others. The library also contained
                    the Tatler and Guardian, Spectator, and the essays of the leading British
                    essayists. It also contained most of the works of the leading English novelists, Fielding, Smollett,
                    Maryatt, Bulwer, Scott, Dickens, Jane Austen, Maria Edgeworth, Miss Mitford, and other standard
                    English novels; also Tupper's and other English novels of less note.
            Besides the books I have mentioned there was also in my stepfather's library a considerable
                    miscellaneous assortment of literary odds and ends not worth particular mention. My own father, who
                    died when I was an infant, had made the beginning of a library and among his books, which I
                    inherited, were the volumes of the old Encyclopedia Americana, the second edition,
                    published  in 1836, in thirteen volumes. The binding is still as
                    good as new, a delight to the eye, nothing like the shoddy stuff we get nowadays.
            So that in my younger days I had access to all the books that I had the time and opportunity to read.
                    Indeed, there were many books in my step-father's library that I never had time to read;
                    but there were also a great many that I did read. To these I have since added many more. Ever since
                    then I have appreciated the advantage of having a good home library where the children of the
                    household see the books every day and have an opportunity to get acquainted with
                    them and to make companions of them.
            Most of the English books of any note in 
                        England
                     were reprinted in this country, and in them we find the imprints of some old American
                    publishing houses whose names are now recalled only by the title pages of the books they once
                    published.
            There were some English books, besides poetical works and novels, that were popular in America in the
                    early fifties. The two volumes of Chambers's Information for the People
                    were reprinted in this country in 1854 and had a great sale here. They contained in compact and
                    readable form a vast amount of information about many scientific, historical and other subjects of
                    interest to the general reader, and were of special value to those who were unable to purchase the
                    more voluminous but expensive encyclopedias. Dick's Complete Works, also
                    containing a great deal of general information written in popular style, were reprinted in 1851 in
                    this country, where they had an immense sale. Other English books, such as Humboldt's Cosmos and all of Hugh Miller's including his Old Red
                        Sandstone, My Schools and School Masters, and Footprints of the Creator,
                    were also well known in this country in the early fifties. The doctrine of Evolution, then thought
                    to border on sacrilege, had also begun to attract attention and Darwin's Origin of Species was widely read in America as well as in 
                        England
                    . 
                        Spencer
                    's Social Statics also excited much interest, and gave a
                    great impetus to the study of sociology in the 
                        United States
                     as well as in 
                        England
                    . Another English book, extremely popular in America in the early fifties, was Martin
                    Farquar Tupper's Proverbial Philosophy, published in 1839. It was
                    unmercifully ridiculed by critics; nevertheless it passed through over forty editions and was
                    translated into several languages. It had an extraordinary sale in the 
                        United States
                    , where, it is said,  over five hundred thousand
                    copies were sold. DeTocqueville's Democracy in America was also very
                    popular.
            Most reading people in America in the year 1850 knew something about ancient and modern history, but
                    there was a prevalent prejudice against both Gibbon and Hume on account of their religious views.
                    Moreover, the style of both was too pompous to suit the popular mind. Macaulay in his History of 
                            England
                        
               , the first two volumes appearing in 1848, had begun to make history more
                    attractive than it had ever been made by any prior historian.
            In American history in 1850 the leading historians were Bancroft and Hildreth. It seemed that the
                    publication of Bancroft's history would never end. The first volume was published in 1834
                    and was succeeded by others at varying intervals, the last, the tenth, not being published until
                    many years afterwards; so that Bancroft's history has been styled by one critic,
                    "A mammoth preparation to begin a History of the 
                        United States
                    ." There were some objectionable features in Bancroft's style, and
                    another critic says that his history might properly be called "The Psychological
                    Autobiography of George Bancroft as Illustrated by Incidents and Characters in the Annals of the 
                        United States
                    ." Hildreth was strongly anti-slavery, with marked federal proclivities. His
                    work was very dry, but has always been regarded as authoritative. Other American historians were
                    Prescott, and later, Motley and Parkman. The latter's Conspiracy of
                    Pontiac, published in 1857, is not only historically accurate, but it is as fascinating as a
                    novel.
            Of course all reading people read Shakespeare, although such was the prejudice against the theater
                    that many who read Shakespeare would not venture to see one of his plays acted upon the stage. At an
                    early day one of the preachers in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was suspected of heterodox notions and was obliged to resign his pastorate. One of the
                    serious charges against him was that he had been caught in the very act of reading Shakespeare to
                    his wife. I feel bound to say that the capital city of Indiana by the middle of the nineteenth
                    century had made considerable progress in literary liberty, to which, doubtless, Henry Ward Beecher,
                    who at a later period occupied a pulpit in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , largely contributed.
            The first part of Goethe's Faust was published in 
                        Germany
                     in 1806 and there were several English translations prior to 1850, but the best, that
                    of Bayard Taylor, was not published until 1871. It is impossible to translate the exact meaning and
                    the nice shade  of poetic coloring from one language into
                    another, and for this reason Goethe's great work was not generally read in America in my
                    younger days, but the poets whose poems were most generally read were the English and American
                    poets.
            Of course 
                        Milton
                    , if we class Shakespeare among the dramatists and not among the poets, stood at the
                    head of the old English poets. "Not to know 
                        Milton
                    ," it has been said, "is to argue yourself unknown." In his
                    essay on 
                        Milton
                    , Macaulay asserts that as "Civilization advances Poetry necessarily
                    declines;" but notwithstanding the great authority of Macaulay, his assertion does not seem
                    to be sustained as applied to lyric poetry and may be questioned, even as to epic poetry, when we
                    consider the popularity of Tennyson's Idyls of the King. There are other
                    reasons, besides the advance of civilization, by which we may account for the decline in popularity
                    of 
                        Milton
                     and other of the old English poets. However this may be, it is certainly true, as
                    already stated, that 
                        Milton
                    's poems were not as popular in the middle of the last century as they were at
                    the beginning of it, and that they are not as popular now as they were fifty years ago. Other of the
                    old English poets, like Dryden, although celebrated in their day, were not so popular in this
                    country in the early fifties. Some of Pope's poems, such as his Essay on
                    Man and his Eloise and Abelard, were read, but Pope's poems had
                    seemingly lost their charm.. Some of the older poets were remembered, but more for their shorter,
                    than for their longer poems, and some were remembered for only one or two, as we remember Goldsmith
                    for his Deserted Village, Gray for his Elegy in a Country
                    Churchyard, or 
                        Campbell
                     for his Battle of Hohenlinden. Indeed, by 1850, people had not only
                    forgotten the poems, but also the names of many of the old poets. These had been succeeded by a
                    newer generation, Byron, Thomas Moore and others. Byron occupied then, as he still does, a somewhat
                    anomalous position among early English poets. His Don Juan was very witty. It also
                    contained some beautiful stanzas, but the levity and low moral tone which characterized the entire
                    poem made it objectionable to many reading people, prejudicing them not only against this particular
                    poem, but against all of Byron's poetical works. Nevertheless, his Destruction
                        of Sennacherib exhibited a sublimity of thought and expression equaled by few of the
                    English poets, and there were passages in some of his other poems, such as the lines in Childe Harold
                     describing the the Battle of Waterloo, and the lines depicting
                    the Dying Gladiator, which displayed poetic genius of the highest order. This served to place Byron,
                    notwithstanding the objections to his Don Juan, in the front rank of English
                    poets. Thomas Moore was also well and favorably known, but chiefly by his shorter lyrics, such as
                        Oft in the Stilly Night and some others rather than by Lalla
                        Rookh and his longer poems.
            Of the longer modern poems by far the most popular in 
                        England
                     and in America in the early fifties were Scott's Lady of the
                    Lake and Marmion, which retain their popularity to this day. My mother could
                    begin with almost any line in the Lady of the Lake and quote from memory a whole
                    page.
            Of the writers of short poems, Robert Burns was extremely popular. His exquisite poem, The Cotter's Saturday Night, was as familiar in my youth in America as it was in 
                        England
                    . So were some of his other short poems, such as his Ode to a Mouse.
                    Tennyson published his In Memoriam in 1850, and in 1854 his Charge of
                        the Light Brigade; his Idyls of the King did not appear until 1859. These
                    at once received unstinted praise both in 
                        England
                     and in this country and placed Tennyson in the front rank among English poets.
            One English poet, Wordsworth, achieved great fame despite the sneers of his critics, and in almost
                    every volume of selected poems we find more quotations from those of Wordsworth than we find from
                    any other English poet except Shakespeare. Wordsworth became poet-laureate in 1834 and died in 1850.
                    Some of his earlier poems gave little promise of his subsequent fame. It is difficult to recognize
                    any great poetical genius in such poems as the one about Goody Blake and Harry
                    Gill, or in the poem which tells of Betty Foy and her Idiot Boy, concluding
                    with this stanza: 
                        "And thus, to Betty's queries, he Made answer like a traveler
                            bold (His very words I give to you) 'The cocks did crow to-whoo, to-whoo And the
                            sun did shine so cold' — Thus answered Johnny in his glory And that was
                            all his travels story."
                     or in the poem about Peter Bell, with a donkey as chief hero, and which winds up by telling
                    how wicked Peter— 
                        "Forsook his courses, renounced his folly And, after ten months of
                            melancholy, Became a good and honest man."
                    
                     and one would have to be of an extremely lachrymose as well as
                    poetical disposition in order to weep over Alice Fell.
            These poems were mercilessly ridiculed by Jeffrey, then the Autocrat of British reviewers, in the
                    Edinburg, at that time the greatest of the reviews. Jeffrey was not simply severe; he was almost
                    ferocious. He began the review of the Excursion with this savage sentence:
                    "This, we think, has the merit of being the very worst poem we ever saw imprinted in a
                    quarto volume." A later English writer, less prejudiced than Jeffrey, expresses this
                    opinion of Wordsworth: "Had he gone on writing nothing but the "Betty
                    Foys' and 'Alice Fells' which Jeffrey laughed at we should not have had
                    in this place to do a biography of him. It is despite a great deal of perverse drivel, besides
                    indifferent matter otherwise, and not in the least because of it, that he continued, and must
                    continue, to be remembered." But Wordsworth did write some poems that are often quoted,
                    such as the one on Revisiting the Banks of the Wye, the one entitled She Was a Phantom of Delight, and one on Intimations of Immortality. One
                    of them, We Are Seven, was reprinted in the old McGuffey's Reader and was
                    familiar to American school children in my boyhood days.
            Robert Browning was little known in America prior to 1850. His most noted, poem, The
                        Ring and the Book, was not published until 1869. An English critic says that "It
                    can be comprehended by poets only," and, it may be added, by but few of them. After more
                    than forty years of futile efforts to decipher the meaning of some of its occult passages they still
                    remain unintelligible to the great majority of American readers.
            Mrs. Hemans was the most popular of the female English poets. She was a voluminous writer. Her verses
                    were highly praised by Jeffrey and other English critics. Her larger and more ambitious poems have
                    not sustained the reputation of the author and her shorter ones were of unequal merit, but some of
                    them were very beautiful and have become classics in English Literature, such as her English Homes and Treasures of the Deep. Reprints of the English
                    editions of her complete poetical works were produced in this country at an early date and made her
                    as well known in this country as in 
                        England
                    . The original manuscript of her well known poem, The Landing of the
                        Pilgrim Fathers in New 
                            England
                        
               , is carefully preserved among the sacred relics in Pilgrim Hall in 
                        Plymouth
                    , 
                        Massachusetts
                    .  Some of her poems, such as He Never
                        Smiled Again, and Casibianca, the one that tells of the boy who
                    "stood on the burning deck," were printed in the school books in my boyhood days
                    and Casibianca was a favorite poem for recitation in village and country schools.
                    Some of the poems of Mrs. Eliza Cook, another English poetess, not so famous as Mrs. Hemans, were
                    also popular in America as well as in 
                        England
                    . The Old Arm Chair was one of my mother's favorites.
            We had some American poets as early as 1850 who afterward became famous. Bryant's Thanatopsis was published in 1816, and many other of his poems at later dates.
                    Neither Whittier nor Longfellow, prior to 1850, had become known as one of the greatest American
                    poets.
            Whittier began writing poetry as early as 1825, but most of his poems prior to 1850 were written in
                    condemnation of slavery. No complete collection of them was published until 1849. Maud
                        Muller was published in 1854; Eternal Goodness in 1865; Snow
                        Bound in 1866 and Tent on the Beach in 1867. His Snow
                    Bound is as striking and beautiful a description of New 
                        England
                     rural life as Burns's Cotter's Saturday Night is of
                    rural Scottish life. Through many of Whittier's poems there runs a deep religious vein, but
                    his theology was in striking contrast with the fire and brimstone kind that had been handed down by
                    such 
                        Puritan
                     ministers as Hooker and Jonathan Edwards. This is especially true of the Eternal Goodness and Snow Bound, two poems that would have immortalized
                    Whittier's name if he had never written any others. Not only do they charm us with their
                    poetic imagery and melody but the sublime faith of the poet which is expressed in them reaches and
                    comforts our souls. We see it expressed in this passage from Snow Bound:
            
            
                    "Alas for hini who never sees The stars shine through his cypress trees!
                        Who, hopeless, lays his dead away, Nor looks to see the break of day Across the mournful marbles
                        play! Who hath not learned in hours of faith, The truth to flesh and sense unknown, That life is
                        ever Lord of Death, And Love can never lose its own!"
                
            
            We also see the poet's faith in these beautiful stanzas in The Eternal
                    Goodness: 
                        "And so beside the Silent Sea I wait the muffled oar; No harm from Him
                            can come to me On ocean or on shore.
                        I know not where His islands lift Their fronded palms in air; I only know I
                            cannot drift Beyond His love and care."
                    
            
            I have mentioned Burns's Ode to a Mouse. Considering it merely as an
                    illustration of poetic art I think it one of the most beautiful lyrics ever written, charming for
                    its simple but exquisite imagery; but we see the contrast between the hope that cheered and
                    sustained Whittier's soul and the doubt that clouded and depressed the soul of Burns when
                    we compare the stanzas above quoted with this in the Ode to a Mouse.
            
                    "Still thou are blest, compar'd wi' me! The present only
                        toucheth thee: But Och! I backward cast my e'e, On prospects drear! And forward,
                        tho' I canna see, I guess and fear."
                
            Longfellow's Evangeline was published in 1848, but his Courtship of Miles Standish and many of his beautiful short poems were not published until
                    a later period.
            Some of the metaphors in The Courtship of Miles Standish are of exquisite beauty
                    such as we see in these lines in which Priscilla, the 
                        Puritan
                     maiden, is speaking to John Alden: 
                        "Hence is the inner life of so many suffering women Sunless and silent and deep like
                            subterranean rivers Running through caverns of darkness, unheard, unseen, and unfruitful,
                            Chafing their channels of stone, with endless and profitless murmurs."
                    
            
            But it is in some of his shorter poems that we see more clearly the wonderful power of the poet to
                    draw inspiration from the simplest characters and commonest incidents of everyday life and to clothe
                    them wtih poetic beauty. This is strikingly manifest in the Village Blacksmith, a
                    poem now known and that will always be known wherever the English language is spoken. We see it also
                         in other of his short poems as in The Reaper
                        and the Flowers and in Rain in Summer.
            Emerson, although known chiefly by his essays, also wrote a few poems disclosing a poetic genius of
                    high order. One of these was his Concord Hymn, the first stanza of which is often
                    quoted: 
                        "By the rude bridge that arched the flood, Their flag to April breeze
                            unfurled, Here once the embattled farmers stood And fired the shot heard round the
                            world."
                    
            
            Doctor Oliver Wendell Holmes was widely known by his contributions to the Atlantic
                        Monthly, especially by his Autocrat of the Breakfast Table and other
                    prose writings, but he also wrote some poetry of a high order, such as his Chambered
                        Nautilus and Last Leaf, in which is this stanza, often quoted: 
                        "The mossy marbles rest On the lips that he had pressed In their bloom
                            And the names he loved to hear Have been carved for many year On the tomb."
                    
            
            James Russell 
                        Lowell
                     was known as a poet prior to 1850. He gained increased celebrity by the first series,
                    begun in 1846, of the Bigelow Papers, a witty poetical and political satire
                    written in Yankee dialect. They still retain a unique place in American literature. One often quoted
                    is that beginning with this funny stanza: 
                        "Guverner B. is a sensible man; He stays to his home an'
                            looks arter his folks; He draws his furrer ez straight ez he can; But John P. Robinson he
                            Sez he Can't vote for Guverner B."
                    
            
            
               
                        Lowell
                     was master of the Yankee dialect, of which he had made a special study, as careful
                    probably as any he had made of Greek or Latin. One of the best of his poems in this dialect was the
                        Courtin', portraying a very lifelike and very humorous picture of
                    this agreeable pastime in primitive New 
                        England
                    . Among his later poems one, considered by some as his best, is the Commemoration Ode in 1865. He became widely known after 1850 not only as a poet but also
                    as one of the founders, and long the editor of the Atlantic
                    
                    Monthly and later still as Minister to 
                         Spain 
                     and afterwards to 
                        England
                    .
            There were some American poets who achieved distinction by a few poems, some by only one or two. Poe
                    was known chiefly by his Raven; Francis Scott Key, by his Star
                        Spangled Banner; John Howard Payne by Home, Sweet Home; Samuel Woodworth
                    by his Old Oaken Bucket.
            Griswold in his Female Poets of America has preserved the names of some of the most
                    popular of the early American female poets. In the edition of Griswold published in 1860 there is a
                    list of ninety-three, beginning with Anne Bradstreet, the first American poetess. The first edition
                    of her poems was published in 
                        Boston
                     in 1640 and so entranced some of the 
                        Puritan
                     divines that one of them, Cotton Mather, compared her to Hypatia, Sorocchia, the three
                    Co-rinnes, the Empress Eudocia and Pamphila; and the Reverend John Norton expressed the opinion that
                    if Virgil could have heard Mrs. Bradstreet's poems he would have been mortified with the
                    inferiority of his own.
            In the early fifties the most popular of the poets named in Gris-wold's list were Mrs.
                    Sigourney and the Carey sisters, Alice and Phoebe. Included in the list are some western poets. Two
                    of them, Mrs. Sarah T. Bolton and Mrs. Rebecca S. Nichols, were well-known in Indiana. Mrs.
                    Bolton's married life was mostly spent in 
                        Indianapolis
                     where she is still well remembered. Mr. Jacob Piatt Dunn has given a very interesting
                    sketch of her in his History of 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               . One of her poems, Paddle Your Own Canoe, was often quoted
                    for many years after its publication and its popularity was increased by its being set to music.
                    Mrs. Nichols resided in 
                        Indianapolis
                     after 1858 and until her death. Several of her poems are included in
                    Griswold's collection. One of them, the Philosopher's Toad, is
                    an apt takeoff of the Ancient and Honorable Society of Old Fogies.
            The fame of some of the female poets enumerated in Griswold's list, such as Mrs. Harriet
                    Beecher Stowe and Mrs. Helen Hunt Jackson, rests mainly upon their prose and not upon their poetical
                    writings. Mrs. Julia Ward Howe is also remembered for her prose writings and her poetical fame is
                    based more upon the poems which she wrote after 1860. Her most celebrated poem, The
                        Battle Hymn of the Republic, was not written until after the beginning of the  Civil War. In these days not only the poems but the names of most of
                    the authors enumerated in Griswold have been forgotten.
            Of course most reading Americans were familiar in 1850 with the essays of the leading English
                    essayists, particularly Jeffrey, Sydney Smith and Macaulay. Many of these were first published in
                    the Edinburg Review and were reprinted and published in this country under the
                    general title of The Modern British Essayists. In speaking of essays, I must not
                    omit to mention Bacon's and especially the delightful essays of Charles Lamb and those of
                    Addison in the Spectator. They are not so much read now as they were fifty or more
                    years ago, but they are as charming as ever. American essays were not so plentiful in 1850, although
                    Emerson's essays were then well known not only in this country but in 
                        England
                    .
            American humor had not been fully developed in 1850. There are so many shades of it that perhaps it
                    is not safe to say that it has yet been fully developed, for each generation brings to us a humorist
                    of a type wholly different from that of his predecessors. The humor of Dickens is not like that of
                    Artemus Ward; Ward's is not like that of Petroleum V. Nasby, and Nasby's is not
                    like that of Mark Twain; and yet all these shades are pleasing. Irving's Knickerbocker's History of 
                            New York
                        
               , a witty burlesque, was published in 1809 and still retained its great
                    popularity in the early fifties. Some of Oliver Wendell Holmes's writings, especially his
                        Breakfast Table series, were distinguished not only for their charming
                    literary style, but also for their exquisite humor. Of 
                        Lowell
                    's humorous poems I have already spoken. One book of a humorous sort that was
                    quite popular was Haliburton's Sam Slick. The sayings of the Yankee clock
                    peddler were not only highly entertaining, but highly instructive, and will repay reading today.
            There were some American books not coming within any of the classes before mentioned that were quite
                    popular in the fifties. Among them were Theodore Winthrop's Canoe and the
                        Saddle, which afterwards passed to the seventh edition, and Dana's Two Years Before the Mast, and some others, mostly of an ephemeral character, that I have
                    not space in which to enumerate.
            As akin to the subject of books, it is proper to mention magazines and newspapers. I do not think
                    that the English magazines were generally taken or generally read in America in 1850, at least not
                    as far west as Indiana. The magazines generally read at that time in this country were American
                    magazines. At the head stood the North American Review, established in 1815. Its
                    reading matter was of the solid kind better appreciated by scholars and advanced thinkers than it
                    was by the general public. Probably the most popular family magazine in the early fifties, and for
                    several years afterwards, was Harper's Magazine. It is interesting now to
                    look through some of the early volumes with their cheap wood-cuts and compare them with the
                    beautifully printed and illustrated numbers in recent years. What then gave its greatest charm to
                        Harper's Magazine was the department styled the
                    "Editor's Easy Chair," in which George Williams Curtis discoursed in his
                    charming and felicitous way.
            
            The Atlantic Monthly was established in 1857. It immediately took the high rank
                    which it has ever since maintained. Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
                    Table and contributions by other leading writers made the magazine popular from the start.
            There were several newspapers, mostly those published in the large eastern cities, having a general
                    circulation in this country as early as 1850, but the 
                  
                            New York
                         Tribune took the lead in the North. Its political editorials, written by
                    Horace Greeley, Charles A. Dana and other well-known writers of the editorial staff, exercised a
                    powerful influence in shaping the political sentiment of the North. It contained other features that
                    made it popular as a family newspaper, and it was eagerly read by old and young in many homes in the
                    West as well as in the East. One of its correspondents was Bayard Taylor, and his letters telling of
                    his foreign travels were always interesting. In the early fifties the Tribune also
                    devoted a portion of its reading pages to fiction. Solon Robinson's novel, Hot
                        Corn, quite popular for a time, was first published as a serial in the Tribune. The Tribune was the first newspaper that I took an interest in
                    reading, and this was long before I reached manhood. My mother prized it more highly than anything
                    in print except her Bible. It was her habit to read every line in the paper except the
                    advertisements. One result of this was that up till the day of her death, in her eighty-eighth year,
                    nothing could ever shake her devout belief—as fixed and fundamental as any of the
                    thirty-nine articles—in the infallibility of the Republican party.
            A very popular family newspaper in 1850 and for several years later was the 
                  
                            New York
                         Ledger. Fiction occupied a prominent place in its columns. One of its
                    contributors was Sylvanus Cobb, Jr., a very prolific writer, whose novels were widely read. His
                    weekly instalments invariably stopped abruptly in the midst of some exciting incident and concluded
                    with the exasperating statement : "To be continued next week." Another popular
                    contributor was Mrs. Parton, a sister of N. P. Willis, who wrote under the name of Fanny Fern. Her
                    papers were extremely popular at the time. Some of them were afterwards published in book form, but
                    had only an ephemeral existence.
            
            I presume that the great mass of people in the early fifties, as now, read more novels than anything
                    else. They had grown tired of reading many of the old books, particularly the old theological
                    discourses and discussions that formed so large a part of the literature of the preceding century. I
                    began at an early age by reading Robinson Crusoe and followed it with good old
                    Peter Parley's Captive of Nootka Sound. Some French novels were well
                    known in this country when I was a young man. One of them, Le Sage's Gil
                    Bias, was known, but I think little read, although in its day it enjoyed extraordinary
                    popularity and was translated into many languages. Probably the most popular of the French novels
                    were Dumas's Monte Christo and Sue's Mysteries of 
                            Paris
                        
                and Wandering Jew. The last I read in 1864 with intense
                    interest, enhanced probably by the fact that I was then lying helpless on a cot in an army hospital
                    upon the top of Lookout Mountain, where there was nothing to do but to read, and with not another
                    book for miles around. Under such circumstances a man who has been used to reading finds that he has
                    a ravenous appetite for something—anything—to read, and even an almanac is
                    entertaining. Once in my army life, when on the march through the mountains of East 
                        Tennessee
                    , and in a state of mental starvation for something to read, I accidentally got hold of
                    Blair's Rhetoric, a very ancient and very dry old-timer, and devoured
                    every word of it while on picket. Victor Hugo's great novel, Les
                    Miserables, was not published until 1862, but at once became immensely popular everywhere.
            One old novel maintained its standing and still holds its place, and probably always will, The Vicar of Wakefield. The English novels most generally read in this country
                    about the middle of the last century were those of Scott and Dickens. Scott published Waverly in 1814, and other novels followed in rapid suecession.  Scott was a prodigious and rapid worker. His Guy
                    Mannering was written, so it has been said, in six weeks. No English novelist has ever
                    supplanted him in his field. The chapters of Ivanhoe, describing the journey of
                    Richard the lion-hearted through the Sherwood Forest, including the chapters describing the night
                    with Friar Tuck, the tournament, the siege of the Castle of Torquilstane, and the rescue by Robin
                    Hood, are unsurpassed in English literature in romantic interest and thrilling adventure. Guy Mannering is equally fascinating. With some, Old Mortality
                    was the favorite. The enduring popularity of Scott's novels is manifest in the new editions
                    that come every year from the English and American press.
            Dickens divided honors with Scott, although Dickens's novels covered an entirely different
                    field and were written in an entirely different style. I am myself an enthusiastic admirer of
                    Dickens. I regard him as, next to Shakespeare, the greatest character painter in the English
                    language. Many of his characters are as familiar as are those of Shakespeare. His novels are pure.
                    He sometimes shows us the slums, but he does not pick from them his chief heroes and heroines and
                    portray them in alluring garb. His Christmas Carol is a better sermon on charity
                    than most of the sermons that are preached from the pulpit. Jane Austen's novels were still
                    popular in the early fifties. Charlotte Bronte's lane Eyre was published
                    in 1848. It created a great sensation both in 
                        England
                     and in America. My mother and I sat up one night until nearly two o'clock in
                    the morning to finish reading it, and then we were both almost afraid to retire lest we might be
                    frightened in the night by the apparition _of 
                        Rochester
                    's wife rending her wedding veil over our beds. Thackeray's Vanity Fair was published in 1847, and by 1850 he was well and favorably known in
                    America. Mrs. Craik, who wrote under the name of Dinah Maria Muloch, published her first novel in
                    1849, but the novel that made her famous in America was John Halifax, Gentleman,
                    published in 1857. It does not rank with the greatest English novels, but it is a delightful book.
                    The heroine's love is neither pedantic, nor platonic, nor spectacular, but sweet and
                    womanly. Not an impure thought is suggested in the book, which appeals to the best and not to that
                    which is worst in us. In these respects it is in striking contrast with some of the latest
                    best-sellers. Charles Reade published his Peg Woffington in 1852 and this was
                    followed by many others. I never  read any of his novels except
                        Griffith Gaunt, published in 1866. I did not like it; it was a marked advance
                    in the direction of novels of the sensational type that have since become so popular and, as I
                    think, so demoralizing. George Eliot's Adam Bede, a very popular English
                    novel, widely read in America, was not published until 1859. After 1850 Wilkie Collins and many
                    other English novelists appeared and later had many readers in America. My step-father's
                    edition of Tupper's Crock of Gold and other novels was an American
                    reprint published in 1851, but Tupper's novels have long since been forgotten. There were
                    some American novels widely read in this country in the early fifties. Cooper's novels,
                    especially his Leather Stocking Tales, five in all, were very popular. So were
                    Hawthorne's novels, especially his Scarlet Letter. Mrs. Stowe's
                        Uncle Tom's Cabin came out first as a serial in the National Era. It was published in book form in 1852 and created a tremendous sensation,
                    not only in America, but all over the world. No American book ever published has been translated
                    into so many languages or has had such an enormous sale. Mrs. Stowe essayed some other novels, among
                    them the Minister's Wooing, but they did not achieve a great success, and
                    I think that they are not often read now. Bayard Taylor also wrote some novels. John
                        Godfrey's Fortune and Hannah Thurston were for a time talked
                    about, but I presume that they are no longer read. There were also some other American novels of
                    lesser note that I suppose have been forgotten by most people of this day, such as Horse-shoe Robinson and Nick of the Woods, or the Jibbenaino-say. I have
                    omitted many novels that were read when I was a young man, some perhaps unintentionally, but many
                    because I have not the space in which to enumerate them. Of course, there were a great many of the
                    kind humorously described by 
                        Lowell
                     as "suitable only to a desolate island."
            No one old enough to remember fifty years back can have failed to notice the great increase during
                    that period in the reading of magazines, newspapers and fiction. This was noted by Doctor Noah
                    Porter, president of Yale, more than thirty years ago in his Books and Reading.
                    The increase is much more manifest today. Doctor Porter thinks that too much desultory reading, even
                    of magazines and newspapers, impairs the memory and gives only a smattering of many matters, leaving
                    us an imperfect knowledge of others of which we should be more thoroughly  informed. Of the excessive reading of novels, particularly novels of
                    the sensational class, Doctor Porter says: 
                        "The reader of novels only, especially If he reads many, becomes very soon an
                            Intellectual voluptuary, with feeble judgment, a vague memory, and an incessant craving for
                            some new excitement. It is rare that a reader of this class studies novels which he seems to
                            read. He knows and cares little for the novel of character as contrasted with the novel of
                            incident. He reads for the story as he says, and it usually happens that the sensational and
                            extravagant, the piquant and equivocal stories are those which please him best. Exclusive
                            and excessive novel reading is to the mind as a kind of intellectual opium eating in its
                            stimulant effects upon the phantasy and its stupefying and bewildering influence on the
                            judgment. An inveterate novel-reader speedily becomes a literary roue, and
                            this is possible at a very early period of life."
                    
            
            Since Doctor Porter wrote his Books and Reading; since Howells wrote his delightful
                    and pure story of Silas Lapham, American novels have poured from the press in a
                    vast and ever-increasing flood. Scarcely any one has time to read them all; it would be difficult to
                    enumerate them, impossible to classify them.
            Many of these novels are of a distinctly socialistic tone, and in them we have unfolded Utopian
                    schemes of government and fantastic theories of religion and long discussions of the profoundest and
                    most perplexing problems of government, religion, and society, all being resolved with ease;
                    discussions in which philosophy is reeled out by the ream and plans for reforming the universe are
                    tossed off with amazing rapidity.
            In such novels nearly all the rich who figure as prominent characters are described as of the
                    predatory kind and nearly all the sins and suffering of society are charged to them, ignoring the
                    fact that much, if not most, of the misery of mankind originates in lust, hate, envy, pride, wicked
                    thirst for power, depraved appetites and vicious desires,. common to poor and rich alike.
            Then we have another and far more demoralizing kind of novels; those of a purely sensational type,
                    written with no other apparent object than that of appealing to a class of readers whose morbid and
                    depraved appetites, already cloyed with sensational literature, is continually craving for something
                    still more stimulating. They seethe and sizzle with exciting incidents. They portray impossible
                    heroes and heroines, and give caricatures of society, the realities of which are not to be found
                    anywhere, and  wholly false and distorted ideas of American life
                    as a whole, especially as it is found in our smaller cities and towns and rural districts. In these
                    novels frightful catastrophes and blood-curdling scenes follow one another in quick succession, the
                    whole being highly seasoned with divorce, adultery, seduction, embezzlement, robbery, murder and
                    other stimulating condiments thoroughly mixed so as to produce a steaming, red-hot literary pudding.
            I quote from an article in the Atlantic Monthly for December, 1914, contributed by
                    an eminent English critic, Mr. Edward Garnett: 
                        "It may be added that a vital reason for the discouragement of crude, violent, and
                            noisy art is that an audience which is habituated to being 'thrilled' will
                            require coarser and coarser stimulants to excite its jaded mental palate. Sensational art is
                            art in which everybody seems to be talking at the top of his voice to attract attention,
                            till at last the hubbub becomes so deafening that people, still resolved on being heard,
                            begin to howl and scream. So it is with 'best sellers' that are
                            'all outside' and no 'inside' and with 'New
                            Fiction that People are Reading'; the publishers and authors seem to be conspiring
                            to force the note of exaggeration till the typical 'best seller' works
                            with automatic perversion in producing scenes of sweet sentimentalism or shock after shock
                            of melodramatic incident. If I am in error in thinking that twenty years ago the American
                            novel of sensation was a far soberer and more human affair than it is today, I should
                            welcome evidence on the point."
                    
            
            Let us take, for comparison with Silas Lapham, an up-to-date American sensational
                    novel, Harold Bell Wright's In the Eyes of the World. I have never read
                    it myself but there is in the Bookman for January, 1915, a review of this novel by
                    Mr. Fredric Taber Cooper, who pronounces it "an extraordinary hotchpotch of seduction,
                    abduction, murder and other human foulness." Now the significant fact in this connection
                    is, not that such novels are written and published and read by a few, but the fact that when we turn
                    a few pages in the number of the Bookman containing this criticism we come to the
                    page giving a list of the six "best sellers" and we find that this particular
                    novel heads the list. I leave others to draw from these facts their own conclusions.
            But I am digressing and I return to my subject. In late years I have not devoted much time to the
                    reading of my old books, but occasionally, when I do not want to read on some special subject, I
                    spend a few spare moments in "browsing around" in my library. Sometimes I read one
                    of Plutarch's biographies, or some of the  essays of
                    Bacon or Charles Lamb, or a page or two in some scrappy book that one can read without missing the
                    connection with that which precedes or with that which follows it; or I read a striking passage from
                    some prose collection, or a beautiful poem from some poetical collection, usually some short poem,
                    such as some of those mentioned in this paper, poems that one can read and -re-read a thousand
                    times, poems that never lose their sweet fragrance. Often I read from some book of quotations
                    containing short extracts from authors old and young.
            Many of my old books recall the name of some loved one; some pleasant recollection of childhood; some
                    delightful vision of by-gone days; some sweet spot in memory where our thoughts love to linger, as
                    the tired traveler loves to linger in some beautiful oasis.
            Some of these old relics I have stowed away in the attic, partly to save them from the clutches of
                    the junk dealer, and partly, I must admit, to avoid the possibility of a threatened domestic
                    insurrection against parading so many old frayed-out books in the best room in the house. Most of
                    them are not worth mentioning. All are hoary with age; all are antiquated remains of antiquated
                    ideas. Some still preserve a faint appearance of faded gentility, indicating that once they had
                    mingled in good society; some are little better than literary ragamuffins that at some time and
                    somehow—I don't know how—have crept into my library. They have no
                    pecuniary value. The entire lot would not sell at auction for thirty cents. But some were the
                    companions of my youth; we have all grown old together; and so I will give them shelter as long as I
                    live. May they rest in peace.
         
         
         
            An English Colony in 
                        Floyd County
                    
            
            
               BY JOHN POUCHER, D. D.
            [The author of the subjoined article is a native of 
                        England
                    , in the heart of the 
                        Puritan
                     region, Lincolnshire, born in 1843. In 1851 he came with his parents to New 
                        Albany
                    , and has been a citizen of Indiana ever since. His activities have been confined
                    chiefly to the southern portions of the State, though he was for twelve years an instructor of
                    ministers in DePauw University at 
                        Greencastle
                    , and for four years a presiding elder or superintendent of a Methodist district
                    centering in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He has been a Methodist preacher, engaged consecutively in the itinerancy, for
                    forty-eight years, and for the last five has been the senior pastor in his conference of three
                    hundred and thirty-nine members.
            Dr. Poucher is a graduate of Indiana Asbury (now DePauw) University, and of Garrett Biblical
                    Institute (theological school) at 
                        Evanston
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    . The latter institution unsolicited conferred on him the degree of doctor of divinity.
                    He was married to Miss Annie M. Cross, a Methodist preacher's daughter and a writer of
                    genius, who bore eight children, of whom seven completed a collegiate course, and with their marital
                    alliances represent sixty-three years of under- and post-graduate work.
            Our contributor has written numerous articles for the leading magazines and periodicals of his own
                    church and for various other theological and secular publications, much appearing as editorial
                    matter. He was a contributor to the Biblical Encyclopaedia issued in this country
                    under supervision of the Scribners. With a taste for historical research and reminiscence he has
                    issued several pamphlets pertaining to places and institutions in Indiana. At present he is the
                    Methodist pastor in Orleans. —EDITOR.]
            
            In 1841 William Wattam and his newly-wedded wife, Mary Wright, emigrated from Lincolnshire, 
                        England
                    , and landed at 
                        New Orleans
                    . They engaged passage on a steamboat coming up the 
                        Mississippi
                     and turning into the 
                        Ohio
                    , and stopped at the foot of the Falls on the Indiana side, as far as the craft could
                    go. There were a few other English people in New 
                        Albany
                    , but they were not connected by family or local ties. Four or five years later one of
                    Wattam's brothers followed, and soon after arrival joined the 
                        United States
                     cavalry forces in the war with 
                        Mexico
                    . He returned safe and sound, and continued to reside in Indiana till his death, leaving
                    several descendants who are good citizens. In  1850 three other
                    brothers and. three sisters with their families and the aged mother sailed from 
                        England
                    , and joined the colony. A year later, 1851, the remaining sister and her husband and
                    son, with ten or fifteen other persons, reached New 
                        Albany
                    , and most of them began to cultivate the rich river bottoms just below the city.
                    Various other parties from the same part of 
                        England
                     from time to time were attracted to the garden spot which soon became famous for its
                    productiveness and beauty.
            Heretofore the land had been occupied chiefly by renters, and there was one tract of over eight
                    hundred acres made inalienable by the owner, a condition that was always considered unfavorable to
                    the highest development of the community. The original tenants, besides entertaining territorial
                    prejudice against the British, did not accord a hearty welcome to the new comers who intstituted
                    methods of farming which required severe manual toil, distasteful for various reasons, but some did
                    not disdain to profit by the example of the colonists who were very successful in raising crops that
                    brought handsome prices. The products were chiefly potatoes, cabbage and other marketable vegetables
                    sold mostly at wholesale for the southern trade.
            Among the native landholders was Thomas H. Collins, who managed his farm on principles scientific and
                    theoretic. On his tract about one mile below town he employed many laborers at high; cost. He
                    became, famous throughout the country, commanding newspaper notice from afar, but unfortunately his
                    expenses exceeded his income, and he was forced to move on cheaper land in a back county, and
                    finally was reduced to keeping a street-corner fruit stand in 
                        Louisville
                    . Others were more fortunate, and became comparatively wealthy, though a few of the more
                    enterprising deserted the region and settled happily about 
                        Charleston
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    . Still other of the Americans went further down the 
                        Ohio
                     river, not too proud to adopt there the new methods which had proven so remunerative.
            The colony was re-enforced by other immigrants coming from time to time as late as 1873, and one
                    about 1887. From, that date the population has dwindled and changed in character, and there are not
                    nearly so many inhabitants now as fifty years ago, and very few own the soil they till.
            Most of the land was heavily timbered, and as none of the Englishmen were adept with an ax they were
                    compelled to let out  the clearings to native Hoosiers, who
                    felled the trees and fenced the land for the cordwood, which they sold in the city. Systematic
                    drainage equal to any of a more modern period was instituted, and the land soon commanded fabulous
                    prices. Part of the Collins tract sold for over three hundred dollars per acre, and much of the
                    ground even further from town could not be bought at any price. By their methods of intensive
                    culture a crop of one hundred barrels, two hundred and fifty bushels, of early potatoes per acre
                    might be raised and sold at $1.50 per barrel net or more and placed at a steamboat
                    landing only a few rods distant with a one-horse wagon in half a day. A stand of Drumhead cabbages,
                    three or four thousand to the acre, might follow, and be sold from three to ten cents a head to be
                    shipped in bulk on the 
                        New Orleans
                     steamer like the potatoes four or five months before. The land possessed intrinsic
                    value.
            The houses were painted and all the outbuildings whitewashed, the premises ornamented with grassy
                    lawns, graceful shrubbery, and brilliant flowers. The farmers could afford to own the finest horses
                    that appeared in New 
                        Albany
                    , often harnessed to single carriages or buggies costing in those times $250
                    or more. While the river road was not then macadamized, it was comparatively level, and as the
                    gardens were beautiful to behold with a background of the low Knobs half a mile away, and the
                    magnificent river bedecked with majestic steamers on the other side, it was a favorite drive for
                    pleasure-seekers from New 
                        Albany
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    .' It is now a boulevard on which vehicles are constantly in sight. J. B.
                    Norman, editor of the Ledger, one of the most influential Democratic politicians
                    of his time in Indiana, fell in an apoplectic fit while on this road, and died before reaching the
                    city. Through the influence of Mr. Collins the Indiana State Fair was held at New 
                        Albany
                     in 1859.
            The colonists, born almost in sight of John Robinson's 
                        Puritan
                     meeting-house where later Wesley, a native of the same county, won such splendid
                    triumphs, were mostly Methodists in their church affiliations, and the community was never racked by
                    sectarian differences or controversies, Wattam, though a common renter at first, in 1849 led his
                    neighbors, chiefly natives, in building a little frame church known as
                    "McKendree," on the highest knoll about two miles down the river. One-half of the
                    site was deeded by Samuel Angel, a somewhat eccentric Englishman, not  related to the main group, on condition that a seat should be reserved
                    in perpetuo for members of a colored family who resided in his house, regardless of the bitter race
                    prejudice then existing. The pulpit was supplied by a circuit-rider, sometimes of indifferent
                    ability, who had five other points, some as far as twelve miles away. He received $100 a
                    year for one visit in three weeks. Englishmen, who had been accustomed to two sterling sermons on a
                    Sabbath in the old country hungered for richer spiritual food in greater abundance, and it was not
                    long before one of the preachers was induced to live in the neighborhood. Then a little pastoral
                    charge was constituted with "McKendree" as the center whe're a preaching
                    service was held every Sunday morning by a minister who on finishing his term was appointed a
                    presiding elder. No ordinary talent could satisfy these farmers, who were systematic readers of the
                    Bible and church literature. One preacher, who soon after filled the pulpits of the strongest
                    churches in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Baltimore
                    , relates that being pressed for time in preparation, he followed a sermon outline
                    appearing in small print in the Ladies' Repository, a Methodist monthly,
                    but he soon observed a knowing smile on the faces of some of his hearers, and abashed at being
                    detected, he went off without his dinner, vowing that if the Lord would forgive him this time he
                    never would repeat the offense.
            Another pastor was taken in the middle of the conference year to occupy the pulpit of the best church
                    in the city. The religious society had gained such enviable eminence that even a college paper in
                    its alumni notes reported one of the most popular graduates as "preaching for the English
                    farmers below New 
                        Albany
                    ." They considered themselves in a position to ask for a representative
                    preacher from the General Conference delegates at 
                        Indianapolis
                     to come and spend a Sunday with them. They had been used to listening to the most
                    distinguished preachers, like Robert 
                        Newton
                    , four times president. of the Wesleyan Conference in 
                        England
                    . There were scarcely ever more than fifty members in the class, but they promptly paid
                    their pastor five hundred dollars a year for an afternoon service later on. Many prominent city
                    Methodists, preachers and laymen, would attend the meetings, and after a bountiful repast would
                    spend the rest of the day in thoughtful and animated discussions on theology. The members have been
                    known to contribute an average of three dollars each for missions.  The little church at one time or another produced seven itinerant
                    preachers of whom some became famous, and all were useful.
            The social decline began late in the sixties, though it was scarcely perceptible for eight or ten
                    years, but the greatest slump occurred after the three devastating floods in uninterrupted
                    succession in 1882, 1883, and 1884. Many of the buildings were swept off by the raging waters, and
                    the top surface of the soil to a considerable depth was washed away. Quite a number of the
                    earlier-settlers had died, or moved in old age to the city or elsewhere, and the remaining residents
                    were spiritless and without competent leadership. Very few of the descendants of the colonists
                    remain on the soil, though some of the land has not changed ownership for seventy years. It has been
                    said that the first generation of aliens born in America do not show the thrift and self-initiative
                    of their parents, but it would be difficult for any to maintain just such a standard of high and
                    successful living as was exhibited in that English colony.
            A most remarkable phenomenon in connection with this social movement is the startling decrease in the
                    commercial value of the land. While it is almost as fertile as formerly, it is not nearly so
                    productive, partly because insect pests have multiplied, but chiefly from a change in the personnel
                    of the occupants and their standards of agriculture. Improvements on the farms have gone to rack.
                    The 
                        New Orleans
                     market was destroyed in the decay of river navigation, and the monopoly once enjoyed
                    for garden commodities ended with the expansion of the railway system. While land in almost all
                    other parts of the country has constantly advanced in price, this has steadily gone down so that the
                    salable value has been reduced to one-third or even one-fifth of its former figures. It is an
                    unnatural condition that will certainly change for the better.
         
         
         
            
               
                        Vevay
                     and 
                        Switzerland County
                    
            
            
               BY JULIA LECLERC KNOX, Principal of the High School, 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana
            Down in the southeastern comer of Indiana, crowded to the banks of the 
                        Ohio
                     by her larger and more self-assertive sister counties, lies modest little 
                        Switzerland
                    . As her name suggests, she was settled by emigrants from the tiny Alpine republic, who
                    showed their loyalty to the mother country by naming the county 
                        Switzerland
                     and the county seat 
                        Vevay
                    . The descendants of these early pioneers who have visited the birth place of their
                    fathers, say the resemblance between our 
                        Vevay
                     and her transatlantic namesake does not-stop with the name.
            The situation of 
                        Switzerland county
                     so near the states of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     makes her much more cosmopolitan than the counties of the northern and central parts of
                    the state. And to visit one of these counties where everyone is a "Hoosier" is a
                    strange experience for a citizen of 
                        Switzerland county
                    .
            Engrafted on the population descending from the original Swiss settlers in 
                        Vevay
                     are many emigrants from the sister state across the 
                        Ohio
                    . These children of the "dark and bloody ground" impart a peculiar
                    southern flavor to the civilization of their adopted home. The posterity of the old Scotch settlers
                    and many Germans, who have come in later years to pool their issues with those of the other
                    inhabitants, make up the present census reports of 
                        Vevay
                    , the oldest town in the county.
            The site selected by the founders is a good one; it is that half way between the market centers of 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    , and, as it has no railroads, 
                        Vevay
                     is almost entirely dependent on the river for transportation. There runs a legend that
                    one day she will have a railroad, but some of the inhabitants prefer that this shall never be
                    realized, fearing that it will take too much from the quaint exclusiveness and quiet beauty of the
                    place. It is better to go and come on a roll of wishing carpet, on the imagination, or the Sanders
                    stage coach, if the river fails in its duty, as it often does in the dry summer or the cold winter.
                    The people  booked on our lecture courses find difficulties in
                    getting here and getting away, equal to those that "hedge a king." But the
                    difficulties of reaching the place now are as nothing to those experienced by the pioneers who first
                    came. The Dufours, the Morerods, the Bettens, the Siebenthals—seventeen souls in
                    all— left their Swiss home to seek new fields across the sea in 1801. After a boisterous
                    voyage of one hundred days, they landed at Norfolk, 
                        Virginia
                    . From there they crossed the Allegheny Mountains in wagons to Pittsburg; the women and
                    children and others who were unable to walk were weighed and brought by freight by the hundred
                    pounds. From Pittsburg they came down the 
                        Ohio
                    .
            The history of the early settlement of 
                        Vevay
                     is largely the history of the Dufour family, who came from the Commune of Chatelard
                    District of 
                        Vevay
                    , Canton of Leman (afterwards de Vaud) in Helvetie or 
                        Switzerland
                    . John James Dufour, the eldest, came first, in 1796, prospecting. Though literally
                    handicapped—he had no right hand—he made an extensive trip through the West,
                    chiefly on horseback, looking for a site for a vineyard.
            He finally located for a short time in the Big Bend of the 
                        Kentucky
                     River, where, as agent for the Vineyard Company, he purchased land and vines and
                    established what is called the First Vineyard. After a while he sent for his brothers and sisters,
                    and soon after their coming, in 1801, the Vineyard Company was dissolved, and they left 
                        Kentucky
                     and came to the present site of 
                        Vevay
                    . As they landed the indomitable John James sprang ashore and seizing an axe, cried,
                    "I will cut down the first tree!" and ascending the bank felled a sapling near
                    what is now known as the old Norisez home. They purchased the land—four sections from
                    Congress at two dollars an acre on a twelve years' credit at six per cent—and
                    called it, at first, New 
                        Switzerland
                    .
            The Dufour brothers and sisters married into other families that came as they did, or soon after, and
                    quite a little community sprang up with John James Dufour and his brother, John Francis, as leaders.
                    It was rather a difficult undertaking—this pioneer life—for those born and
                    reared in a country dating its civilization back to the time of the Caesars, and who knew nothing
                    about the use of the axe as the pioneer knows it. They had been accustomed to all the necessities
                    and many luxuries, and too much can not be said of the courage and fortitude with which they faced
                    their hardships and rose to their occasions that they might 
                    leave to us the heritage we now enjoy. Not only the forefathers, but even more the foremothers, come
                    in for their share of our gratitude and veneration.
            As Mrs. Harnaday said in the last Fourth District Club Meet: "They boosted untiringly, and
                    remained patiently in the background, mending the trousers and putting up with the general
                    crankiness of the old boys." To them we owe much, perhaps most, for the hardships of the
                    pioneer woman were twice as hard to bear as those of the pioneer man.
            Indian scares often arose, but that was about as far as they ever went, as it is said only two were
                    ever murdered in 
                        Switzerland county
                     by the Indians. Depredations on the west and northwest were often committed, so
                    sentries were posted and the settlers met at one house to pass the night. In 1812, Elisha Golay,
                    captain of militia, was ordered to form a company by voluntary enlistment and "proceed to
                    the frontier and range east and west along the north line of 
                        Jefferson county
                     as far as the settlements extended." He built a blockhouse to accommodate from
                    forty to sixty men within the limits of the county. This was known for many years as
                    Buchanan's Station.
            Wolves were another menace, doing great damage to hogs and calves. The legislature of the territory
                    passed an act allowing a bounty, the munificient sum of one dollar, for each wolf scalp to the one
                    who could prove his prowess to the satisfaction of the county court. Deer and bear were plentiful.
                    Wild turkeys were so numerous that they crowded the hogs away from their feed and the pioneer had to
                    knock them down with clubs. There was no danger of starving for lack of wild meat.
            Later on, in 1823-24, there was a sort of squirrel pest; a great portion of the corn crop was
                    destroyed and parties were formed to hunt the little animal. In one hunting expedition of
                    twenty-eight men, one thousand and seven were killed, although the weather was unfavorable. Another
                    party brought in three thousand one hundred and sixty-six. In all, thirteen thousand and six
                    squirrels were recorded killed at this time. The county seemed almost another Bishop Hatto tower,
                    with squirrels instead of rats for antagonists.
            In spite of it all the settlement grew and prospered. The people had depended at first chiefly on
                    their vineyards, and, it is said, the quality of their wine was considered by judges, superior  to the claret of Bordeaux. In the old Morerod home, there are
                    still two old kegs in the wine cellars; one is of seven hundred gallon capacity, the other five
                    hundred. A specimen of their wine was taken to 
                        Washington
                    , D. C, by John Francis Dufour and presented to a committee of Congress by Thomas
                    Jefferson. It was no easy matter—that trip. John Francis made it on horseback, leading a
                    horse with a pack saddle across which two five-gallon kegs containing the wine, were placed. To this
                    day it is thought that vines dressed and trimmed according to the Swiss methods, bear best.
            Orchards were planted and were soon in a thrifty condition. Wheat, hemp, Indian corn, potatoes and
                    flax were raised. Straw was saved in a neat manner and used in making hats. One of the Dufour
                    sisters brought to America a peculiar manner of weaving this straw into hats and the art was very
                    valuable. The hats were sold in 
                        Cincinnati
                     and to flatboat traders going to the 
                        Mississippi
                     country.
            Flatboating was much depended on and many 
                        Switzerland county
                     fortunes of today were based on this old industry. Members made it a regular business
                    to load a flatboat with provisions, sell them and also the boat and return home from the
                    "lower country," by steamer. In his Last of the Flatboats,
                    George Cary Eggleston has pictured all this very clearly and has even used local names and
                    personalities so plainly as to be easily recognized by the oldest people of the community and indeed
                    many of the characters are still living.
            An account written in 1876 makes these very interesting statements : "Farm products were at
                    first very low as compared with present-day prices. Eggs which now sell readily for from ten to
                    twenty-five cents per dozen, were then only from one to one and a half cent per dozen; butter, now
                    twenty-five, was then only six and one-fourth cents; potatoes from six and one-fourth cents to
                    twelve and one-half cents per bushel, and good country-cured hams could be purchased at from two to
                    two and one-half cents per pound." (Verily, ye good old times!)
            Many industries rose and fell from time to time. Saddle and harness making, shoemaking, tanning,
                    clock and watch manufacturing, were some of the early occupations. There was once a nail factory
                    here which cut nails by horse power. They sold for twenty-five cents per pound. George G. Knox was
                    the first cabinet  maker and many fine old pieces of furiture
                    throughout the county were the work of his hands. He and Dr. John Menden-hall were engaged for some
                    time trying to invent perpetual motion. There was an bx-saw-mill and a horse grist-mill after a
                    time, but at first the nearest grist-mill was four miles away on the opposite side of the river and
                    nearly every family had to depend on a hand mill. There was also a carding machine, and for a while
                    a cotton gin on a small scale was in operation.
            It was customary for families to have shoes and clothing made up at home. The tailor and shoemaker
                    were hired at from eight to ten dollars per week to come to the house and fit out the family. At the
                    close of the war, however, manufacturing interests of 
                        Vevay
                     became more developed. In 1865, a furniture factory was established. In 1876, woolen
                    mills were erected. Later, carriage, chair and cigar factories and a planing mill and flour mill run
                    by steam, were brought into being. Now alas, nothing of all this remains except the two last named
                    manufactories.
            Until 1810, all mail came from what is now Carrollton, 
                        Kentucky
                    . Then it was called Port William, the nearest postofnce. Once in two weeks or at most
                    once a week, the mail arrived. Through the efforts of John Francis Dufour a postofnce was
                    established at 
                        Vevay
                     and he served as postmaster until 1835.
            In 1813, the town was "laid off." The lots sold at prices varying from twenty-two
                    dollars for the cheapest to ninety-two for the most expensive. At this time the population within
                    the present limits of 
                        Switzerland county
                     was about one thousand and was confined chiefly to the immediate vicinity of river and
                    creek bottoms. In two years it had almost doubled. Two years ago the centennial celebration of the
                    founding of 
                        Vevay
                     was held and a very successful week's program was carried out. Between six and
                    seven hundred home-comers were in attendance, coming from all parts of the 
                        United States
                    .
            During the spring of 1814 many buildings were put up in different parts of the town and the
                    population throughout the county increased so much that it became necessary to organize a separate
                    county off the upper end of Jefferson as people from above where 
                        Patriot
                     now stands had to go to 
                        Madison
                     to transact ordinary county business, and so 
                        Switzerland county
                     originated. The privilege of naming, which, being given to John Francis Dufour, what
                         more than natural that he should christen it for his mother
                    country.
            In 1817 it was divided into six townships—Jefferson, Posey, Craig, Cotton, York, and
                    Pleasant. Two creeks, Plum and Indian, flow through Jefferson township (in which 
                        Vevay
                     is situated) giving it a good natural drainage and some rich bottom land for farming.
            In Pleasant there are two interesting groups of people—one called still "The
                    Scotch settlement" and the other formerly dubbed "the Dutch settlement."
                    Even yet certain national characteristics are strongly marked in the former. They are both of
                    Presbyterian religion, though of different kinds.
            In 1820, 
                        Vevay
                     consisted of upward of one hundred log, brick and frame dwelling houses, the former
                    outnumbering all other kinds nearly two to one. There was a brick courthouse, a stone jail, brick
                    market house, printing office, postomce, an ox saw-mill, two horse grist-mills, three taverns, a
                    seminary of learning, a circulating library, a branch of the State Bank of Indiana, three blacksmith
                    shops, two Free 
                        Mason
                     lodges, but no meeting house, although there was much talk of churches being built by
                    both Presbyterians and Methodists. The former was first organized. By popular subscription,
                    amounting to the munificent sum of two hundred and seventy dollars, a church was built in 1828 on
                    the site of the present building. Daniel Dufour contributed the lot with the understanding that if
                    it was ever used for any other purpose that it was to go back to the possession of his heirs.
            The Methodist church was organized in 1816; the Baptist in 1833; the Universalist in 1852; the
                    Christian in 1842, and the Catholic in 1854.
            In 1817, the first Sabbath School was formed by Mrs. Abner Clarkson. Other efforts were made to make
                    the people be good. There was a most excellent law in relation to the use of profane language. A
                    fine of one dollar was imposed for each oath, but no one could do more than ten dollars'
                    worth of swearing in any one day. It seems that a gentleman from Indian Creek especially fluent in
                    the use of bad language came to town to sell a cow. In the course of the transaction he literally
                    swore away his "dumb critter." For his profanity was so loud and long that the
                    justice of the peace levied on the innocent animal, which didn't bring enough to wipe out
                    its owner's eloquence.
            
            There was a whipping post, but only two people are on record as having been punished in this way. The
                    crime of both was larceny. Not until 1815, was a jail necessary, although our forefathers were
                    forehanded enough to provide one the year before. The first prisoner, ingenious soul, sawed his way
                    out of the little log affair and a later one set fire to it, made good his escape, and Nero-like,
                    sat on a hill in the back ground and watched it burn. During the first decade, what educational work
                    was done was the private venture of pioneer school masters occupying some room or primitive building
                    in town or deserted cabin in the county. As early as 1810, Lucien Gex taught French only in a log
                    cabin below town. After 
                        Vevay
                     was "laid out," a school house of hewed logs, designated by the
                    ambitious title of "the Seminary," was built. Succeeding the few subscription
                    schools which marked the first epoch, district schools, supported from public revenues, supplemented
                    by contributions of material and labor levied as a tax upon citizens, were established.
                    Eggleston's Hoosier School Master gives a very true picture of conditions
                    at the time represented. To build the first school house a tax of twenty-five cents on the one
                    hundred dollars was levied. The cost of building and of furnishing was five hundred and thirty-seven
                    dollars and fifty cents. As late as 1845, the contract with the teacher stipulated that
                    "grammar should not be taught." From these humble beginnings, the present fine
                    system and creditable school plant, with Superintendent R. N. Tirey at the head, has been evolved. 
                        Vevay
                     has the honor of having been for many years the scene of the untiring efforts in the
                    educational line of Mrs. Julia L. Dumont,' whose reputation in pioneer pedagogy is almost
                    national. She must have taught a half century and today we are proud to trace our lineage to her
                    pupils and by some of us it can be done through two or three generations. She was certainly a
                    remarkable woman. The mother of twelve children, she carried on her household work in connection
                    with her school duties. She rocked the cradle, knit, and taught school all at once, and was an
                    authoress of some note for her time. Realizing that a teacher's field was broader than
                    simply "lickin' and larnin'," her moral influence was very
                    great. Edward Eggleston was one of her pupils and always remembered her with affection and respect.
                    The Reverend Hiram Wason and wife were among the early teachers. For thirteen years they labored in 
                        Vevay
                     and were greatly beloved. Reverend  Wason was the
                    original of "Reverend Whittaker" of Eggleston's Roxy.
            A literary society was early organized and lasted until 1829 or 1830. The legislature in 1816 passed
                    an act incorporating it. In connection with it a library was collected and John Francis Dufour
                    procured for it many books through donations in 
                        Louisville
                    . The posterity, as one might say of this, is two thriving women's clubs of
                    thirty active members each—"The Eggleston" and "Julia L.
                    Dumont" clubs. Both have State and national federation and are doing good work. The
                    "Julia Dumont" club was organized in 1866, and thus is one of the oldest in the
                    state.
            The first newspaper, the Indiana Register, was established in 1816 by John Francis
                    Dufour and others. Since that time the publication of at least one weekly newspaper has been a
                    permanent thing. There are now two weekly and one bi-weekly sheets.
            The first house was a log cabin 14$$20 feet, built by John Francis Dufour on
                    the lot now occupied by the residence of Doctor L. H. Bear. In that house, courts were held for some
                    time and for many years the office of county clerk and also the post office were there. The first
                    brick building was the courthouse, completed in 1816, in which year the first circuit court was
                    held. It occupied the site of the present courthouse, which was erected about the close of the Civil
                    War. Shortly after 1816, Lucien Gex built a one-story brick, still standing on Main street east of
                    Mrs. Elizabeth Hall's home.
            The first marriage license was issued October 6, 1814, by County Clerk John Francis Dufour to Richard
                    Dumont and Matilda Philips, parents of Judge C. T. Dumont, of 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
            
               
                        Vevay
                     is full of the direct descendants of these sturdy pioneers, and many of the old Swiss
                    customs are yet retained. For instance, at the exodus from the old country, the aged grandfather of
                    the Dufours, too decrepit to make the journey with the younger people, knelt on the bank and prayed
                    for the welfare of the voyagers and read the ninetieth psalm. He requested them to meet and read
                    this psalm when it was not possible to have "preaching" and to have it read at the
                    funerals of all the family. To this day this custom of having it read at the funeral is religiously
                    observed by every descendant of the Dufours. This picturesque departure of the Dufours from their
                    native shore reminds one of Robert Weir's "Embarkation."
            
            The old Swiss custom of making a cheese at the birth of a child and saving one half to be eaten at
                    his marriage and the other at his funeral, is no longer observed.
            Among the queer wills of these old Swiss is that of Jean Daniel Morerod, the husband of Antoinette
                    Dufour. He requested that he be buried in a plain pine box, the cost of which was not to exceed one
                    dollar and a half, and the money that would otherwise have been spent on his burial was to be
                    invested in the best of wine to be served to the funeral guests. This will is on record at the
                    county courthouse and has always been the subject of comment.
            
               
                        Vevay
                     has a custom peculiar to herself, the origin of which we have been unable to trace, and
                    that is the Mardi Gras celebration of New Year and New Year's eve. The citizens, chiefly
                    the younger and livelier (but often even the older and more dignified join in the sport) masked and
                    dressed in all sorts of grotesque costumes, call from house to house. No one remembers when this
                    began nor how it began.
            In the history of 
                        Vevay
                    , the celebration of the Fourth of July was well attended to. The enthusiasm which the
                    Revolutionary War engendered in the hearts of the people burst forth annually at the coming of the
                    national holiday. The Swiss all met in a certain grove. The Declaration of Independence was read, a
                    Fourth of July oration was delivered by one of the leading men and then followed a barbecue and
                    dancing which continued until sunset. This custom not long since passed away.
            Another long established practice was shooting matches for turkeys at Christmas and New Year. The
                    owner of the turkeys would give notice to the marksmen who wished to take chances in the shooting
                    match, that on a certain day he would have a lot of turkeys put up to be shot, at twelve and
                    one-half or twenty-five cents a shot. The turkeys would be tied by the legs and set off at a
                    distance of one hundred yards. The hunters would take their turns and the one who could hit the
                    turkey became its owner. In this way the man who raised the turkeys realized quite a good price for
                    them, and the successful marksmen got a comparatively cheap fowl. This sort of sport is fully
                    described in Cooper's Pioneers.
            It must be remembered that 
                        Vevay
                     was the home of Edward Eggleston. It is not his birthplace, however, as is erroneously
                         supposed. He was born on a farm in Craig township, four or
                    five miles from town. The house in which he spent his boyhood still stands in good repair and is
                    proudly pointed out to interested visitors as not only his early home, but also his birthplace, by
                    those who err through lack of information or through the desire to embroider truth with the fancy
                    stitch of fiction. The house is a two-story brick, with a queer little squeezed-up, vine-covered
                    portico over the front door that has a peculiarly secretive air and the whole building looks as if
                    it had an interesting story to tell, but doesn't intend to do so, and it is thus a constant
                    whet to one's curiosity. A queer, tangled old garden adjoins the west side of the house.
                    Here everything seems to grow as it listeth, in an independent way that sets all laws of
                    horticulture at defiance. This enticing old yard always had a peculiar interest of its own for me,
                    even when I was too young to know there was such a man as Eggleston. It looks as if you might run
                    upon all sorts of magic things like the rabbit hole in Alice in Wonderland that
                    would lead away to fairyland.
            In his Recollections of 
                            Vevay
                        
               , Eggleston says: 
                        "When I think of Indiana I always think first of 
                                Vevay
                             which is the scene of my earliest and most delightful memories. I spent the
                            first three years and a half of my life there. Then I came back at nine years and lived
                            there two or three years and again at fifteen. I remember sitting at the window of the
                            little front parlor that looks on Main street and watching the children start off to
                            picnics, I couldn't attend on account of ill health. I remember when the Whigs
                            burned Martin 
                                Van
                             Buren in effigy in the public square in 1840 before I was three years old. I
                            remember when Governor Poindexter of 
                                Mississippi
                             and Governor Metcalf of 
                                Kentucky
                             spoke from the platform at the top of the stairs of 
                                Knox
                            's Mill in 1844. I recollect the great barbecue in the woods above town
                            when the boys came home from the Mexican war. Alas! some never came.
                        "These were rude times but they have disappeared. The hearty pioneer life has become
                            the refined life of today, permeated with good taste and quickened with lofty
                            aspirations."
                    
            
            Eggleston always cherished a fondness for his old home and often visited 
                        Vevay
                    , as did also his sister and his brother George. They were always accorded a hearty
                    welcome by their old schoolmates, to whom they were always plain "Ed" and
                    "George," and "Laura." The town is redolent with the memories of
                    the characters Eggleston drew in Roxy, Hoosier Schoolmaster, and Hoosier School Boy. The old inhabitants can tell you of the  originals of many of these pen pictures. "Jeems"
                    Philips, the Champion Speller of the Flat Creek district, one of the characters in Hoosier Schoolmaster, died little more than a decade ago. The old gentleman greatly
                    enjoyed the distinction he had won through Eggleston as visitors on history trails always made much
                    of him. When The Hoosier Schoolmaster was brought to 
                        Vevay
                     a few months ago on the "movie" films there were still many who could
                    criticise the truth to life of the production. The character of "Lummy" in Hoosier School Boy, is said to have its original in Captain Lum Stepleton, a
                    retired river citizen of 
                        Vevay
                    . The "house with the Lombardy poplars," where Mark Barnaby took his
                    wife, Roxy, to live, has quite a story-book appearance—a "once upon a
                    time" air. It looks like an old French chalet and is as interesting as a romance itself. It
                    is situated on the outskirts of the town with a chestnut grove adjoining, and it would take nothing
                    less than a dragon with a fiery tail to guard those chestnuts from the village boys then, as now. A
                    winding path leads through an avenue of majestic trees to the broad front door, worn with the marks
                    of many feet that have passed in and out over the sill. Until within recent years, it was occupied
                    by "Uncle Aime" Morerod, the son of Antoinette Dufour Morerod, the sister of John
                    James and John Francis Dufour. "Uncle Aime," as he was popularly called, was born
                    on the day Jackson won the battle of 
                        New Orleans
                    . He was a picturesque old figure with a massive head covered with a great mass of
                    iron-gray hair, and a great frame, all the more pitiful in its decrepitude on account of the great
                    contrast between the "now" and the "used to be." After the death
                    of his wife he lived there all alone, save for a servant as old as himself. Like the home of
                    Goldsmith's village preacher, the old house behind the Lombardy poplars was "known
                    to all the vagrant train." It was a refuge for the unfortunate of all classes, and the old
                    man denied himself of many comforts in order to do the deeds of charity in which his heart
                    delighted.
            The sister of this interesting old character enjoyed the distinction for many years of being the
                    oldest inhabitant of 
                        Switzerland county
                    . She was very ambitious to live to be one hundred and came within only two years or so
                    of doing it. "Aunt Lucy" Detraz (pronounced Datraw) was born on the site of 
                        Vevay
                     in 1806. She was the fifth white child born in that place at a time when only ten or
                    twelve families lived in the locality. She was educated  in 
                        Louisville
                     as far as education then went for girls. Always when she didn't want
                    "the little pitchers with big ears" to get the benefit of her remarks, she would
                    break into a perfect cyclone of French, to the mingled awe and amusement of us youngsters. Except
                    the time spent in school at 
                        Louisville
                    , she passed her entire life in 
                        Vevay
                     and was never in a railway car. A devoted member of the Presbyterian church, she was a
                    zealous reader of the French Bible, and proved by her intelligence that the Bible is the best of
                    classics, as she impressed one as a woman of knowledge and even some culture. It was like living
                    history to talk with her.
            She remembered the War of 1812, and loved to tell of her fright on seeing a band of Indians for the
                    first time. Against her mother's commands she followed her to her Uncle Daniel
                    Dufour's and just as her mother got out of sight, Aunt Lucy, looking over her shoulder, saw
                    a band of six Indians coming with guns on their shoulders. The governor of 
                        Canada
                     had offered five dollars for every scalp brought in, and as a man near Eagle Creek, in
                    the rear neighborhood, had been recently relieved of his "head piece," the little
                    girl had reason for fright and always pointed out this episode to us as a warning against
                    disobedience. She reached the Uncle's house just before the six warriors and she laughingly
                    related with her French gesticulations how she ran up the ladder to the loft and she and her little
                    cousins, after carefully pulling up the ladder, hid themselves in an empty barrel or two, and
                    ostrich-like, felt themselves unseen when they had covered their faces. The senior members of the
                    family were not at their ease either until the Indians, knowing they were French, said
                    "Friendship" in that language, and seating themselves in a semi-circle on the
                    puncheon floor, smoked the pipe of peace once around and handed it to their host. After that they
                    ate heartily of the corn bread and bacon, which Mr. Dufour brought out and then went quietly on
                    their way. As the Indians were accustomed to regard the French as their friends, they did no harm to
                    the 
                        Vevay
                     settlers. They often came, bringing their squaws and papooses for friendly calls.
            Aunt Lucy well remembered when it was no uncommon thing for her little brothers and sisters and
                    herself to hear the cry of the panther on the hills as a sort of lullaby at night when they were
                    tucked into their trundle beds. She told of seeing buffalo  come
                    down to the sandbar on the opposite side of the river to drink and how she had once seen a bear come
                    into her father's pigpen, and walking off on its hind feet, carry off a great porker. Her
                    father and the other men hunted deer and wolves in the woods.
            In those days one of the main industries of 
                        Vevay
                     was the making of straw hats. The men of the family cordelled canoes to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , at that time a small village, to exchange the hats for the bare necessities of life.
                    At one time Aunt Lucy's father was offered a lot in the middle of what is now somewhat of a
                    metropolis (indeed the legend runs that it was the lot on which the postoffice now stands) for six
                    straw hats, but he didn't feel he could afford to take the offer as he needed groceries and
                    ready money to pay on his vineyard. Coffee was then seventy-five cents a pound and was measured out
                    a few grains to each member of the family. There were no coffee mills and the grains were pounded in
                    a rag and they often had to relieve their craving for the drink by smelling, mayhap by
                    "chewing the rag." Light bread was not to be thought of and cornmeal was sifted
                    through perforated buckskin.
            Aunt Lucy loved to recall the visit of 
                        Lafayette
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1824. The Swiss artillery from 
                        Vevay
                     went up to help receive him. Her husband was the chief gunner and she related with
                    pride how he fired the cannon "twenty-eight times in three minutes, lacking one second, and
                    was deaf in one ear ever after;" and how "
                        Lafayette
                     wrote a piece on the paper" and said it was the best time he had ever seen
                    made in any place—the time made by the Swiss gunners of 
                        Vevay
                    .
            This same cannon, familiarly known as "Old Betts," had quite an interesting history
                    after that, although she fell to the low estate of celebrating political victories and Fourth of
                    Julys. The opposing political parties stole her from each other, sometimes resorting to temporarily
                    burying her to hide her. Finally, after taking off the arm of a political boss, she, one might say,
                    committed suicide, by blowing herself up, not so many years ago.
            To return to "Aunt Lucy"—she was present at the birth of Edward
                    Eggleston, or "Eddie" as she called him, and put his first clothes on him.
                    "Toinette," in Roxy, is Aunt Lucy's daughter, long
                    since deceased. And her queer, rambling low-circled home, with its odd little closets under the
                    stairs, is the house where the  "Reverend
                    Whittaker," in Roxy, boarded. The wall-scraper clock mentioned in the
                    same book is still in the same place on the wall. The quaint overhanging back-porch recalls
                    "Toinette" and the minister and their morning conversation. The yard juts out into
                    the sidewalk, but the city council, out of respect for "Aunt Lucy," promised they
                    would never order it changed during her life time, and although she has been dead now a number of
                    years, it is left as it was. The old house is full of surprises, turning off here and there into a
                    room, a closet, or a porch that one doesn't suspect. Most of the doors have the
                    "raise-up-the-latch-and-walk-in" fastenings like the doors of Red Riding
                    Hood's grandmother.
            During her lifetime, Aunt Lucy became the possessor of many-interesting antiquities—one of
                    them being the first churn in the county. Up to the last she was mentally and physically spry as
                    many thirty years younger. Her hearing was defective, but otherwise she was in full possession of
                    all her faculties, and was a most interesting conversationalist. She, for some time previous to her
                    death, enjoyed her "second sight," as she called it, reading her Bible and doing
                    the most wonderful embroidery and needle work without glasses. There was never the tottery
                    feebleness of old age in her walk until very shortly before she passed away, but her step was
                    unusually firm and elastic.
            Another member of this particular branch of this pioneer family was Mrs. Julia Morerod LeClerc, also
                    rather remarkable for her times. Left a widow when her ninth child was yet an infant, she continued
                    for more than sixty years to carry on the business her husband left—that of hotel keeper.
                    She was her own bookkeeper and business manager and yet never forgot to look closely after the
                    welfare of her children and eke her grandchildren. Her hotel was always considered headquarters,
                    without money and without price, for all those who could claim remotest kin. Her continued use of
                    tallow candles after the day of kerosene lamps added quaintness to her house.
            A descendent of one of the Dufour brothers was Perrit Dufour, to whom we owe most of the information
                    concerning those early times.
            While the history of 
                        Vevay
                     is bound up with the Swiss and especially the Dufour family, the first settler in the
                    county of whom we have any record was Heathcote Pickett, who, in 1795, erected a cabin about three
                    miles from 
                        Vevay
                     near Plum creek.  Mr. Pickett made the first
                    flatboat in the county, and he made twenty trips to 
                        New Orleans
                    . It is said he walked back each time after selling his provisions and his boat.
            In 1798, the Cotton and Dickason families came into this section and settled below 
                        Vevay
                     on Indian creek. William Cotton lived in a large sycamore tree until his cabin was
                    built. He took an active part in the politics of Indiana and was the first justice of peace,
                    receiving his appointment from General Harrison, then governor of the territory. In 1814, he was
                    made associate judge, and, in 1816, was delegate to the Constitutional Convention which formed the
                    constitution of Indiana. He was a member of the first senate after the state was admitted to the
                    Union.
            An interesting group of Scotch—Seventh-Day Baptists—in about 1817, took up
                    their abode on Long Run, a branch back from the river from 
                        Vevay
                    . There is now scarcely a family of any importance that can not trace descent from some
                    of these pioneers.
            During the centennial anniversary, many interesting relics of these early days were unearthed and put
                    on exhibition. Old hair-cloth chests brought across seas, spinning wheels with stones, as
                    interesting as that of Priscilla's wheel, winding blades, etc., etc.
            In spite of the fact that 
                        Vevay
                     is off a railroad she has many advantages other cities of her size and situation can
                    not boast. Almost every street is paved with cement; there are waterworks, electric light, two
                    telephone exchanges, furnaced homes, good schools, six churches, and two progressive
                    women's clubs. There are few totally indigent families, and there are automobiles galore.
                    Not to own one is perhaps more of a distinction than to own one. The people travel extensively in
                    every direction and possess a certain amount of culture, not always found in such small places.
         
         
         
            Indiana Methodism 1816-1832
            
               BY RUTH PRICE, A. M. (DePauw), Baldwin, Kas.
            Indiana Methodism, in 1816, was beginning to recover from the effects of the War of 1812, and was
                    entering on a period of increased efficiency and development. In that year, all the settled portion
                    of Indiana was included in the bounds of two conferences, the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    . There were only seven circuits within the present state of Indiana, and these were
                    divided between the two conferences thus:
            
               
                        Ohio
                     Conference, Miami District, with two circuits, the Whitewater and the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , and the Salt River District, with only one circuit, Silver Creek, in Indiana.
            
               
                        Tennessee
                     Conference, 
                        Illinois
                     District, with four circuits, the 
                        Wabash
                    , Patoka, Blue River, and 
                        Vincennes
                    .1
            
            
                    
                
            
               
                  1 From the Minutes of Conferences, Vol. I, 1773-1828.
                        Conferences met in the fall of the year, and the appointments were for parts of two calendar
                        years, thus the appointments in 1816 extended until the fall of 1817.
            
            
            The religious interests, however, were temporarily subordinated to the political events of the year
                    1816. In January, 1812, a petition had been drawn up and presented to congress, asking that Indiana
                    be made a State.2 Nothing was done at this time, and it was not until February,
                    1815, that a petition from the inhabitants of Indiana Territory, asking for admission into
                    statehood, was brought before the House. During the summer following this petition, there was much
                    agitation throughout all the Territory. Newspapers published accounts of new town sites which were
                    being laid out, and statistics were gathered (though there is doubt as to their authenticity)
                    stating that the population was 68,084.
            The Enabling Act had appointed May 13, 1816, as the time for election of delegates to the
                    Constitutional Convention. The only restriction as to the work of the convention, was that the
                    constitution should exclude slavery, the same restriction which had been laid down in the Ordinance
                    of 1787. Methodism was represented in this convention by Hugh Cull, from 
                        Wayne county
                    , and Dennis Pennington, of 
                        Harrison county
                    .3 Both were interested in politics as well as religion and
                    exercised a strong influence on the convention.
            From this time, there was a rapid increase in the population. The immigration was chiefly from the
                    Carolinas, 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    . A number of persons, however, from the Western part of 
                        New York
                     and the Northwestern section of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     were forced into Indiana because of economic causes, during the early part of 1817. The
                    summer of 1816 had been cold and the supply of grain was consequently limited. Many people floated
                    down the Alleghany and 
                        Ohio
                     rivers on rafts and settled in 
                        Dearborn
                    , Jennings, 
                        Switzerland
                     and 
                        Washington
                     counties. These people were interested in politics, and while during the period of
                    territorial government, the offices had usually been filled by Virginians, from 1816-1824, the
                    government was more frequently in the hands of settlers from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . There were several settlements directly from Europe, such as the Swiss at 
                        Vevay
                    ,
                  
                     2 Esarey, History of Indiana, Vol. I, Chapter IX.
                  
                     3 Hugh Cull was a circuit rider and local preacher in 
                                Wayne county
                            . Allen Wiley, in his "Introduction and Progress of Methodism in
                            Southeastern Indiana," published in the Western Christian
                            Advocate for 1845, says that he was the first Methodist in 
                                Wayne county
                            . Dennis Pennington was not a preacher hut was a prominent layman and later
                            served a number of years in the State Legislature, cf. Holliday, Indiana
                                Methodism, Chapter I.
               
                     and the French at 
                        Vincennes
                    , but none became strong enough to exert an active influence in politics.4
            
            One noticeable fact in regard to church, and particularly Methodist history in Indiana, is that the
                    first societies, as a general rule, were formed in the country. In many of the towns, the property
                    holders and office seekers were opposed to all forms of religion. In such cases the villages were
                    the unpromising fields, while those who settled in the more remote fields, were more easily
                    influenced by religious teaching. The moral impress of the first settlers remains in many towns to
                    this day. In some cases, the proprietor of the town, the clerk of the court, or the landlord of the
                    tavern gave tone to the morals of the community. In other cases some man of wealth or some family of
                    culture made an impress that was abiding. 
                        Brookville
                    , 
                        Charlestown
                    , Corydon, 
                        Bloomington
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     were fortunate in this respect, for their early and more influential citizens were
                    usually religious, or recognized that respect was due to religion and that its influence on society
                    was decidedly helpful, and they endeavored to promote its advancement. But we must give credit to
                    some less worthy methods of promulgating religious influence. The barroom was often the first place
                    thrown open for preaching in a western village, and the landlord would pride himself on maintaining
                    good order during the service.5 The first sermons preached in Rising Sun and New 
                        Albany
                     were in barrooms. A sermon preached by James Conwell, of 
                        Laurel
                    , led to the conversion of a tavern keeper, who disposed of his liquors and opened his
                    barroom for preaching, and it remained the permanent place of worship till the erection of the
                    village church.
            In 1818 a readjustment was made by which certain sections of Indiana were to be included in the 
                        Missouri
                     Conference.6 This had been organized in 1816, and held its first
                    session in 
                        Turkey
                     Hill Settlement in 
                        Illinois
                    , in that same year. Its boundaries extended into four State and
                    Territories—Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , 
                        Missouri
                    , and 
                        Arkansas
                    . At the first session of the conference there were seven members present and six others
                    were admitted on trial.
            At the sessions of the two conferences held in 1818, we find the following adjustment of circuits for
                    Indiana:
            
               
                  4 Holliday, Indiana Methodism, Chapter V.
               
                  5 Holliday, Indiana Methodism, p. 99.
               
                  6
                        Minutes of Conferences, Vol. I, 1773-1828.
            
            
            
               
                        Ohio
                     Conference, 
                        Lebanon
                     District, contained Whitewater circuit, 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     circuit, and 
                        Madison
                     circuit.
            
               
                        Missouri
                     Conference, 
                        Illinois
                     District, contained Indian Creek, Silver Creek, Blue River, Harrison, Vincennes, Patoka
                    and Pigeon or Little Pigeon circuits.7
            
            
                    
                
            From 1815-1820 there was a period of increased settlement and of greater development in the sections
                    already settled. Population increased, as well as the value of town property in the older counties.
                    The settlements had been chiefly in the "Wedge," as it was called, but there was a
                    beginning of settlement in the northern part of the State.8 In 1820 a malarial
                    fever along the 
                  
                     7 The statistics published in the Minutes of
                            Conferences, Vol. I, 1773-1823, show that at the end of the first year after the
                            founding, the members of the Methodist societies in Indiana, belonging to the 
                                Missouri
                             Conference, were between 1100-1200 whites and 8 negroes; and for the 
                                Ohio
                             Conference, 700-800 whites and 6 negroes.
                  
                     8 Treaties had been made with the Indians at various times, freeing
                            the land from their claims and opening it up to settlement by the whites. The Treaty line of
                            1805 was from a point near the center of 
                                Randolph county
                             to the center of 
                                Jackson county
                             and the Treaty line of 1809 from 
                                Vermillion county
                             to the center of 
                                Jackson county
                            , the two diagonal lines forming a wedge-shaped piece of territory. It was south
                            of these lines that all the early settlements were made.
               
                     river towns on the lower 
                        Wabash
                     checked immigration temporarily, and many left that region and settled further north.
                    The growth of Methodism had kept pace with the growth of population, in spite of the difficulties
                    encountered. When the preachers made their reports in 1817, it was found that they had completely
                    overcome the great loss in members caused by the war with Great Britain in 1812. The year 1817
                    showed an increase of 849 over the preceding year, and' 580 over the number before the war
                        began.9 In 1810 the population of Indiana was 24,520, and Methodism numbered
                    its members at 755. In 1820, the population had increased to 144,178, and Methodists to 4,410.
            Since 1816, the following circuits had been added: 
                        Madison
                    , 
                        Bloomington
                    , Mt. Sterling, Corydon, and 
                        Charlestown
                    .10 But the years were not all bright nor was the growth a steady
                    one. During the war of 1812, in addition to the loss of membership, occasioned by the war itself,
                    some people lost interest in religious affairs, and the church was embarrassed during the period by
                    the faithlessness of members. One minister lost much of his influence because of his connection with
                    Aaron Burr.
            To the many who did remain true, however, and who endured hardships and trials, in order to plant
                    Methodism in this new country, the church of today owes a great debt. The itinerant system was
                    peculiarly adapted to the time and country. It effectually prevented preachers from forming local
                    ties, or creating local prejudices, which might injure their effectiveness. The poverty which
                    accompanied it kept them foot-loose of all worldly things. It might be compared in some ways, to the
                    Jesuit system of missionary work at an earlier time, and certainly it was as effective as the work
                    of the Catholics among the Indians and half-breeds. While the communities to which the itinerant
                    preachers came might be rude and illiterate in some ways, still, there were the germs and
                    possibilities for future growth and development, which had been entirely lacking in the Indian
                    villages of an earlier period.
            The preaching of these devout men was a great moral and 
                  
                     9 Statistics from Holliday, Indiana Methodism, p.
                            51.
                  
                     10 The name of Blue Kiver Circuit was merely changed to 
                                Charlestown
                            , with the addition of some preaching places Rev. Aaron Wood, Reminiscences of Indiana, published in pamphlet form.
               
                     educational force. Even when it influenced men's minds
                    chiefly through fear, it prompted them to good conduct, as one of the necessary means of keeping out
                    of the "eternal hell of quenchless fire." While the preachers themselves might be
                    men of little education, they knew thoroughly the messages they were to deliver and they were
                    decidedly in earnest. Their speech might be un-grammatical at times, but their zeal was white hot
                    with the fervor of conviction and their eloquence lost nothing in effectiveness by reason of
                    rudeness in rhetoric or inaccuracy of diction, to the people who listened.
            We picture the typical itinerant of that day as a "tall, raw-boned, hollow-eyed man, who
                    dressed according to the Methodist preacher fashion of that day, namely, round-breasted coat, long
                    vest with the corners cut off, short breeches and long stockings, with his hair turned back from
                    about midway between the forehead and the crown, and permitted to grown down to the
                        shoulders."11 Another prominent minister of the period is described
                    as "a tall, slim, awkward man, with large blue eyes, a large Roman nose, and when he
                    preached the inside of his upper lip protruded ungracefully. He had a long chin which he used in
                    winter time to hold up the blanket he wore for comfort. In the center of the blanket there was a
                    hole cut, well bound, to prevent it from tearing and just large enough to let his small head
                    through. He would then fasten the forepart of the bound hole on his chin, and bid defiance to wind
                    and rain. If his bed or pallet covering were scant, at quarterly meeting, his blanket answered him
                    another valuable purpose, as additional covering. Why pallets at quarterly meeting? There were few
                    churches in those days, but quarterly meetings were in private houses, which were usually crowded by
                    strangers from a distance. When the time for repose arrived, all the beds were surrendered to the
                    women, and the men would pile down on the floor with their feet to the fire, with a few bed covers
                    over and under them and sleep under Heaven's guardian care, and arise in the morning
                    prayerful, thankful and happy."12
            
            In traveling large circuits, often very severe hardships were undergone. One circuit rider who
                    started out through the wilderness was overtaken by the darkness when he was a number of 
                  
                     11 One of the earlier itinerants as described by Allen Wiley.
                  
                     12 Samuel Parker is described thus by Allen Wiley in his
                            "Introduction and Progress of Methodism in Southeastern Indiana" in the
                                Western Christian Advocate, 1845.
               
                     miles from any house. He had stopped earlier in the day to feed
                    his horse at a lonely cabin in the woods, and fearing that he should have to spend the night in the
                    woods, he had begged some corn dodger for himself. When night came on he held his horse and allowed
                    her to graze for a time, and then placing himself between the projecting roots of a large elm tree,
                    with the bridle wrapped around his wrist lest the horse escape, and wander off into the woods, he
                    slept peacefully.13
            
            George Locke was at one time the presiding elder of the 
                        Wabash
                     District. At that time, the district extended from Shawnee town on the 
                        Ohio
                     River up the 
                        Wabash
                     on both sides, to a point above 
                        Terre Haute
                     some 20 or 30 miles, embracing a territory in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     of at least a hundred miles from east to west by two hundred miles from north to south.
                    He traveled this district for four years, receiving much of the time scarcely enough to pay his
                    traveling expenses. At one time during an especially severe winter, Mr. Locke was returning home
                    after an absence of several weeks. When he reached the 
                        Wabash
                     river he found it gorged with ice. He and another traveler waited at the home of the
                    ferryman three days for a change in the weather or in the condition of the ice, but as none came and
                    they were anxious to proceed on their journey, they resolved to break a channel through the ice for
                    the ferryboat. They had almost accomplished their undertaking, when through an accident, Mr. Locke
                    was thrown from the bow of the boat, where he was standing, into the river. After he was rescued he
                    insisted on completing the work and crossing the river, and thoroughly drenched and chilled as he
                    was, he mounted his horse and rode ten miles to the next house. When he reached there, he was frozen
                    to the saddle and speechless. The horse stopped of its own accord, and the family, coming to the
                    door and perceiving his condition, lifted him down from his horse and cared for him kindly, until
                    after a day or two, he was able to resume his journey.14
            
            The itinerants, on horseback, threaded their way from one 
                  
                     13 Allen Wiley thus described an experience of his own in his
                            "Introduction and Progress of Methodism in Southeastern Indiana" in the
                                Western Christian Advocate, 1846.
                  
                     14 George Locke had been transferred to the 
                                Illinois
                             Conference from 
                                Kentucky
                             in 182 5. He served on the Corydon and 
                                Charlestown
                             Circuits and then as Charles Holliday was elected by the General Conference as
                            agent for the Book Concern at 
                                Cincinnati
                            . Locke was appointed to fill his place on the 
                                Wabash
                             District in 182 8.
               
                     settlement to another and from block-house to block-house, over
                    unimproved roads, with few ferries, and no bridges across the streams, carrying a rifle to protect
                    themselves from the Indians. Such heroism naturally endeared the pioneer preacher to his people, and
                    their respect for his courage and daring made it easier for him to appeal to them in the name of
                    Christ.
            One minister gives these facts as to his expenses. "I had a wife and seven children and my
                    entire receipts for house rent, fuel and table expenses amounted this year to $76. If
                    there were a married and single preacher on one circuit, the collections were divided into three
                    parts and the married man received two parts, and the single man one. Or if one preacher had ten
                    children and the other none, they both shared equally, if they were married men."15
            
            In 1825, Joseph Tarkington was appointed to the 
                        Rushville
                     Circuit.16 At that time it included four counties in the fork of
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Wabash
                     rivers. For living expenses, during the year, he received only fourteen dollars, partly
                    in money and partly clothing. His senior partner, James Garner, received twenty-eight dollars for
                    the support of himself, his wife, and several children.
            A story is told of the first Methodist settlement in Vigo county. Jacob Turman was the first preacher
                    to visit that county, preaching at the cabin of John Dickson, near Rogers Spring. He organized a
                    class with William Winters as class leader. At one time a company of hostile Indians came near the
                    house, with the intention of murdering the congregation, but as they drew nearer they heard the
                    people singing, and such was the influence of the music on them, that they quietly withdrew. They
                    reported to an interpreter, at a treaty, signed not long afterward, that they retired out of
                    veneration for the "Great Spirit."17
            
            Bishop Soule, with forty or fifty preachers was at one time traveling on the mail boat, the
                    "General 
                        Pike
                    ," bound from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , on the 
                        Ohio
                     River. The Fall Races had just closed at 
                        Louisville
                    , and a number of gamblers were on the boat. They immediately took possession of the
                    gentlemen's cabin, which was soon lined with card tables, and plentifully supplied with
                    liquors; and there began a scene of drunkenness and profanity 
                  
                     15 Allen Wiley speaks of himself in his "Introduction and
                            Progress of Methodism in Southeastern Indiana," Western Christian
                                Advocate, 1846.
                  
                     16
                            Western Christian Advocate, September 25, 1846; Allen Wiley's
                            articles.
                  
                     17 Holliday, Indiana Methodism, p. 80.
               
                     that was remarkable for a steamboat, even in that day. The
                    Bishop arose and walked from one end of the cabin to the other. It was a case where open reproof
                    might have caused strife and perhaps led to serious results. Speaking in a loud voice, that all the
                    preachers might hear, the Bishop said, "Brethren can not we sing, too." The
                    preachers gathered together in a group and began to sing: 
                        Jesus, the name high over all, In earth or sea or sky, Angels and men before it
                            fall And devils fear and fly.
                     The gamblers paused and listened and one by one began to retire to their staterooms or go
                    out on deck, and by the time the preachers had sung two or three hymns, all the card tables had
                    disappeared, and during the afternoon and evening the boat was quiet, and there was no confusion of
                    any kind.18
            
            We have traced the changes in the organization of conferences from the Western Conference, which
                    included Indiana, down through the formation of the 
                        Ohio
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                    , and the 
                        Missouri
                     Conference, which had included the circuits of Indiana within its bounds since 1818.19 In 1824, there came a third step; when the General Conference, in May of that
                    year, divided the 
                        Missouri
                     Conference, and placed the States of 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana in what they termed the 
                        Illinois
                     Conference. The time and place of the session of 1824 of the 
                        Missouri
                     Conference had been fixed, six months before the General Conference met, and as the
                    time was short, it was most natural that for the first year, the two conferences should hold their
                    sessions at the same time and place. Therefore, in October of the year 1824, three Bishops,
                    McKendree, Roberts and Soule, were present at this joint session of the conferences held at Looking
                    Glass 
                        Prairie
                    , 
                        Missouri
                    . The following year, however, the two were permanently separated, and new 
                        Illinois
                     Conference, taken largely from the old 
                        Missouri
                     Conference, with a few minor additions, met at 
                        Charlestown
                    , Indiana, in August, 1825. The year started with an increase of six new circuits over
                    the year before, 
                        Rushville
                    , 
                        Salem
                    , Paoli, Boonville, 
                        Vermillion
                    , and Mt. Vernon. Blue River and Mt. Sterling were 
                  
                     18 Holliday, Indiana Methodism, pp. 118, 119.
                  
                     19 Rev. H. N. Herrick of the North Indiana Conference made some
                            compilations of the Indiana Conferences and this is founded on the information contained
                            therein.
               
                     no longer counted, thus making a net increase of four circuits
                    over the preceding year—a total of 19 in all in Indiana. Between 1818 and 1825 these
                    circuits had been added at various times. Corydon, 
                        Bloomington
                    , 
                        Connersville
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    .20 All of these were in the 
                        Madison
                     and Indiana Districts except Mt. Vernon in the 
                        Illinois
                     District and this was the only circuit that district had in Indiana. As the districts
                    sometimes crossed State lines, we may conclude that the circuits also did, when the adjoining
                    territory was in the same conference.
            The decade 1820-1830 was a noteworthy one in many ways. The capital of the state had been changed
                    from Corydon to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and following the surveying of the town and the advertising, by its promoters, there
                    came a period of renewed immigration, not only to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but to all the central parts of the State. It was customary for the founders to offer
                    a free lot to the first physician, and the first three or four carpenters who erected houses. Many
                    new towns were laid out along the 
                        Ohio
                    , especially in the bends of the river. Because of the very poor transportation
                    facilities, an interest was now being taken in schemes for internal improvement. The earliest, was
                    the building of State roads. Then came the subject of a National road. All these improvements had
                    their reaction on church development. The early circuits were so large and the settlements so
                    scattered and remote from each other that improvements in transportation made it far easier to go
                    from place to place, and benefited not only the minister, but the people who had to travel long
                    distances to hear him.21 Since the itinerant preacher could come only
                    infrequently, it was necessary to have services whenever he appeared and it was the habit of
                    preachers to be ready for services six or seven days a week. Preaching appointments were for 12
                    o'clock on all days except the Sabbath. The reasons for this are not definitely known,
                    unless it was because the rides were long and the people had no clocks or watches. But the lines of
                    the land surveyed by the government ran north and south, and everyone could tell on a clear day when
                    it was noon.
            The cabin homes of the settlers were the only churches, and 
                  
                     20 From the Minutes of the Conferences, 1773-1823.
                            Though the names of the circuits are given in the minutes, no definite boundaries are
                            mentioned, either of districts or conferences, and maps illustrating them are thus, of
                            necessity, inaccurate.
                  
                     21
                            Western Christian Advocate, October 20, 1846; articles by Allen
                        Wiley.
               
                     splint-bottomed chairs the only pulpits. The founders of
                    Methodism in Indiana have been criticized for their lack of foresight in taking little or no thought
                    for the accumulation of property for the church. Eligible sites could have been had for the asking,
                    and yet the earlier meeting houses were built for the accommodation of those who were then members
                    of the society with little or no reference to the permanent centers of population. Consequently,
                    when the tendency came toward town development, it was found that many of the churches were wrongly
                    located, and as the country became older and the demand for Sabbath preaching compelled the
                    discontinuance of week-day appointments, many of the churches ceased to be occupied.22 They were built too close together for Sabbath appointments, and yet it was difficult
                    to unite the small country charges into a common center for the erection of a larger church.
            During the period there was a change in church architecture as well. In the earliest stage, the
                    churches, like the homes of the settlers, were made of logs. Later, the houses of worship were plain
                    frame or brick buildings without steeples or bells. Later still there came a period when the
                    Methodists invested as much money in church building as the members of any denomination. Changes
                    were made in customs also, and where formerly the sexes had been separated, this practice was
                    discontinued and pews were rented in some instances.
            The unusual or seemingly supernatural always arouses interest, and some of the events of the year
                    1831 were looked upon with curiosity by the outsiders.23 A camp meeting was held
                    on the 
                        Wayne
                     Circuit in the summer of that year. During the meeting many were converted, and some
                    would begin to laugh and would continue doing so for hours. After the laughing commenced it seemed
                    practically impossible to stop it. Opinion was so divided on the matter that the minister preached
                    and advised concerning it from the pulpit, suggesting that those who laughed "should not
                    invite the exercise," and those who scoffed "should not doubt the sincerity of
                    their brethren, for they could not help seeing that the thing was involuntary when once
                    commenced." One man was almost thrown into the "jerks" of a former day by
                        
                  
                     22 Holliday, Indiana Methodism, p. 155.
                  
                     23
                            Western Christian Advocate, October 9, 1846. Allen Wiley's
                            articles on Indiana Methodism.
               
                     resisting the laughing symptoms. It was told that a woman in 
                        Kentucky
                     laughed all day and all night after she was converted.24 A writer
                    of the period who saw some of the exhibitions thus naively discusses it: "I neither approve
                    nor condemn this mysterious thing. Doubtless Heaven had some purpose to accomplish in sending or
                    permitting the exercise, but what that purpose was I know not, unless it was to convince skeptics
                    that there is an invisible agency which acts on the human mind and by that means on human nerves and
                    tendons." After a short time the whole affair subsided, but for a period it created much
                    excitement in certain parts of Indiana.
            At the time of the second session of the 
                        Illinois
                     Conference (the first in Indiana, however), in the list of appointments there were two
                    stations, an innovation for this section of the country. These read: "
                        Madison
                     Station—Samuel Bassett; 
                        Salem
                     Station —William Shaubs." 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     were made stations in 1827 and 1828.25 When 
                        Indianapolis
                     was changed from a circuit to a station the name of 
                        Fall Creek
                     appears in the list of appointments for the first time—including all the old
                    preaching places of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     circuit except the city itself. These may be given as typical of the circuits of that
                    period. They are as follows: In 
                        Marion county
                    , Headley's McLaughlin's and La Master's; in 
                        Madison county
                    , Pendleton, Shetterley's and Smith's; in 
                        Hamilton county
                    , 
                        Danville
                    , Wilson's and Claypool's; in Hendricks and Morgan counties,
                    Matlock's, Barlow's, Booker's, 
                        Martinsville
                    , Culton's and Ladd's; Hough's in 
                        Johnson county
                    , and Ray's and Rector's in 
                        Shelby county
                    . When 
                        Indianapolis
                     was made a station it is possible that some other preaching places were added to the
                    circuit. By some people, the departure from the circuit system was looked upon as the beginning of
                    the end of itinerancy in the Methodist Episcopal Church. One minister of the period characterized it
                    as a "serious mistake."26
            
            The period between 1825-1830 is noticeable for the changes and readjustments made in size and
                    location and names of circuits. The conference of 1827 divided the old Whitewater Circuit, and the
                    northern part was called "
                        Wayne
                    ," with Stephen R. 
                  
                     24 Allen "Wiley, in the Western Christian
                                Advocate, 1846.
                  
                     25 The nearest date possible to obtain is for 1825, three years before 
                                Indianapolis
                             was made a station, but it is not probable that many changes were made in that
                            period. The foundation for this is in Dr. Herrick's manuscript.
                  
                     26 Rev. "W. C. Smith, Indiana Miscellany,
                            1866.
               
                     Beggs and William Evans as the preachers.27
                    The following year Beggs was sent to 
                        Crawfordsville
                     Circuit, and during the year organized a class in 
                        Lafayette
                     consisting of twenty members. The 
                        Crawfordsville
                     Circuit in this year had the following preaching places and in the order named: 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Ft. Wayne, 
                        Logansport
                    , 
                        Delphi
                    , 
                        Lafayette
                    , 
                        Attica
                    , 
                        Portland
                    , 
                        Covington
                     and back to 
                        Crawfordsville
                     again. The subordinate and intermediate preaching places, however, outnumbered the
                    principal ones, so that the minister had to preach from five to seven times each week. Later Beggs
                    was sent to 
                        Bloomington
                    , "a four weeks' circuit." It is an interesting fact that the
                    circuits were often classified, according to the length of time which was required to cover the
                    ground, and preach once in each place appointed. Thus we hear of "four weeks'
                    circuits"—and those of three, and two weeks. Those of four weeks seem to have
                    been the largest (at this period).
            Between the years 1825-1830 the tide of immigration was constantly extending northward, and the
                    church kept pace with the growth of the population; for the majority of the charges, added from time
                    to time, were in the northern section of the State.28 The third session of the 
                        Illinois
                     Conference was held in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, in 1826. At this time there were three districts in Indiana, 
                        Madison
                    , 
                        Charlestown
                     and 
                        Wabash
                    . A total membership of 10,840 was reported. The conference did not meet again in
                    Indiana until 1828, when Bishop Roberts presided over its session in 
                        Madison
                    . During the previous year the church in 
                        Madison
                     had been divided by what was known as the "Radical Controversy." A
                    number of persons had withdrawn from the Methodist Church and had organized a separate church. This
                    new organization lasted for a few years, and gradually most of the adherents drifted back into the
                    mother church. At the session of the conference this year in 
                        Madison
                    , the membership had grown to 15,593, an increase in two years of 4,753. Extension
                    revivals were reported all over the conference. In 1829 the following new charges were added: 
                        Washington
                    , in 
                        Wabash
                     District; 
                        Franklin
                     and 
                        Vernon
                     in 
                        Madison
                     District, and 
                        Logansport
                     Mission, which was included in 
                        Charlestown
                     District.
            In 1830 the 
                        Illinois
                     Conference met in 
                        Vincennes
                    , Indiana. 
                  
                     27 Prom the manuscript of Dr. H. V. Herrick.
                  
                     28 Holliday, Indiana Methodism, p. 70.
               
                     Bishop Roberts was to have presided, but he was detained by
                    sickness, and Samuel H. Thompson took his place. At this time the 
                        Indianapolis
                     District was organized and James Armstrong, who had been the first pastor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     station, was made presiding elder.29 The following appointments
                    were included in the district: 
                        Indianapolis
                    , 
                        Fall Creek
                    , White Lick, 
                        Greencastle
                    , 
                        Rockville
                    , 
                        Crawfordsville
                     and 
                        Logansport
                    . All of these were circuits except 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Seventeen young men were admitted on trial, among them Edmund R. Ames. In 1852 he was
                    elected a bishop of the Methodist Church and served in that office for nearly twenty-seven years.
            The conference was held in 1831 in the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the first time a Methodist Conference ever assembled in the capital. During the eight
                    years when the State of Indiana was included in the 
                        Illinois
                     Conference five of its sessions were held in Indiana towns as follows: 1825 at 
                        Charlestown
                    , 1826 at 
                        Bloomington
                    , 1828 at 
                        Madison
                    , 1830 at 
                        Vincennes
                    , and 1831 at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . During the two quadrenniums 1824-1832 there had been a remarkable progress in the
                    Methodism of Indiana. When the period began there were two districts, eighteen circuits, and 8,917
                    members. In 1832 there were five districts, forty-one circuits, and 18,853 white members and 182
                    colored. Methodism had increased to more than twice its original size.30
            
            There had been a corresponding growth in the 
                        Illinois
                     Conference, and when the General Conference met in the spring of 1832 they decided that
                    for the best interests of both States, a division should be made so that there would be more
                    efficient supervision and a larger opportunity for growth. In consequence, they formed the Indiana
                    Conference, which was to include all the Methodist stations and circuits within the boundaries of
                    the State of Indiana. Some readjustments were made in circuits and districts. 
                        Madison
                    , 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Charlestown
                     districts were least affected, the circuits in 
                        Illinois
                     on the 
                        Wabash
                     District were detached and the remainder left on the 
                        Wabash
                     District in the Indiana Conference and one new district, to be called 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , was added. The general conference had appointed the time and place for the first
                    session of the new conference, and according to the plan the meeting was held at New 
                        Albany
                     in the fall of the year 1832.
            
               
                  29 Dr. H. N. Herrick's manuscript.
               
                  30
                        Minutes of Conferences, Vol. II, 1829-1839.
            
            
            
                    
                
            
            In the sixteen years since Indiana had become a State many influences had been at work developing the
                    new commonwealth from a pioneer district to its well organized and prosperous condition in 1832. And
                    while it is impossible to apportion exactly the credit where credit is due, still we must give a
                    large share to the ministers who helped to mold public opinion and who preached the virtue of civic
                    righteousness as well as personal morality. Many names could be given of influential men of the
                    period, and honor should be given to the women as well; the wives and mothers of the itinerant
                    ministers who stayed at home and carried on the simpler but no less important duties of the
                    household. To her the preacher owed his inspiration many times, and her firm belief in him and in
                    his work often helped to keep him true to his chosen faith when difficulties were encountered.
            A history of the period would not be complete without the mention of three typical men: James
                    Armstrong, Calvin Ruter, and Allen Wiley.31 James Armstrong was a native of 
                        Ireland
                     and was brought to this country by his parents when a child. He was converted
                    and.joined the Methodist Church in 
                        Philadelphia
                     and received a license to preach. In 1821 he emigrated to Indiana, and in the fall of
                    that year he became a member of the 
                        Illinois
                     Conference. He was a man of intense convictions, and while not so eloquent and popular
                    a preacher as some of the men of the period, he was noted for his executive ability, and he was
                    exceedingly successful in gaining members to the church. He was very witty and used his wit to great
                    advantage in confounding self-conceited skeptics and those who opposed religion. He was a presiding
                    elder for most of the time from 1824 to his death in 1834, and the hardships of that work
                    undoubtedly shortened his life.
            Calvin Ruter entered the 
                        Ohio
                     Conference in 1818 and was immediately transferred to the 
                        Illinois
                     Conference as one of the group of volunteers who were sent from the 
                        Ohio
                     Conference to the new State of Indiana. He entered heartily into his itinerant duties
                    and so applied himself that it was not long until his health suffered from the strain. Several times
                    he was forced to take a supernumerary relation, but with returning strength he re-entered the ranks
                    and carried on his work. He was interested in denominational education, and was one of the
                    projectors and founders of Indiana Asbury University.
            
               
                  31 Allen Wiley, and Holliday's Indiana
                        Methodism.
            
            
            Allen Wiley has been mentioned before as being closely identified with Indiana Methodism. He was a
                    man of literary achievements, especially remarkable for the period in which he lived. He was a
                    student of Latin and Greek, and was recognized as a profound theologian. As a minister he was noted
                    for preaching lengthy sermons, but he always received an attentive hearing because of his fervor and
                    conviction. He was interested in education, and took an active part in the support of Indiana Asbury
                    University in its early days. To him we owe much of our information concerning this period, for he
                    compiled and wrote a series of articles for the Western Christian Advocate in
                    1846.
            The period closing in 1832 had splendid prospects for the future—a new conference
                    organized in Indiana; peace over the country; internal improvements progressing and an era of
                    general material prosperity. Indiana was not an exception to the general rule that economic
                    conditions affected religious ones, and the growth and development of Indiana Methodism in the years
                    1816-1832 owed much to the political "Era of Good Feeling."
         
         
         
            The Centennial Pageant for Indiana; Suggestions for Its Performance
            
               BY GEORGE MCREYNOLDS, A. B., Head of the History Department, 
                        Evansville
                     High School
            [The writer has tried to avoid what seems obviously plain to him, the vagueness and indefiniteness of
                    much that has been written on the pageant. Especially has the effort been made in this article to
                    say something that may be of help to the workers in the Indiana Centennial of 1916.*—ED.]
            
            I. THE PAGEANT1
               
            
            
               Definition and Aims of the Modern Pageant—According to Ralph Davol, a
                    writer of considerable experience in pageantry, "The true pageant is an idealized community
                    epic, conceived and presented dramatically and simply in the open fields and sunshine by the
                    co-operative effort of creative local townspeople."2
            
            Probably a better definition is that of W. C. Langdon, the first president of the American Pageant
                    Association: "The pageant is the drama of the history and life of a community showing how
                    the character of that community as a community has been developed. * *
                    * Or, the pageant is drama in which the place is the hero and the development of the
                    community is the plot."3
            
            These two definitions are sufficient to convey the true meaning of the good pageant. Pageantry in
                    short is an expression of the community soul and should not be simply a sensational show or
                    exhibition.
            
               
                  *For further information on the subject of pageantry in the 
                            United States
                        , the reader is referred to the following books and articles: Davol, Ralph, A Handbook of American Pageantry, 
                            Taunton
                        , 
                            Massachusetts
                        , 1914; Bates, Esther Willard and Orr, William, Pageants and
                        Pageantry, 
                            Chicago
                         and 
                            New York
                        , 1912; Withington, Dr. Robert, A Manual of Pageantry, 
                            Bloomington
                        , 1915; Current Opinion, September, 1914; Review of
                            Reviews, Vol. 48, 1913; Pageant and Masque of Saint Louis, Bulletin
                        No. 2; and Bulletins of the Indiana Historical Commission, three of which have
                        already been issued.
               1 For much of this material I am indebted to Mr. Ralph Davol and to Mr. Robert Withington.
               
                  2 Davol, Handbook of Pageantry, page
                        88.
               
                  3 American Pageant Association, Bulletin No. 11.
                        (December 1, 1914.)
            
            
            The distinction should be made at this time between the drama and the pageant. The purpose of the
                    drama is usually the presentation of the career of a single individual, showing clearly and forcibly
                    the rewards of virtue and the wages of sin. Unity of theme is better shown in the drama than in the
                    pageant for the latter takes up the affairs of the community as a whole, showing the development.
                    The drama is an indoor product having unity of time, place and action, but the pageant is or should
                    be an outdoor performance in which the place is the principal character, not the individual.
            The primary purpose of the modern pageant is to revive or to maintain the memory of the past and to
                    arouse and promote civic healthfulness; all of this is to be done by the co-operative effort of the
                    entire community. Mr. John A. Gundlack, chairman of the executive committee that arranged the Pageant and Masque of Saint Louis in 1914, gave voice to the civic value of
                    pageantry when he said, "Our one great hope that has moved us to assume the
                    responsibilities and labor involved in this great undertaking is that out of the beauty of art
                    * * * will spring an aroused civic pride and love of home that will
                    develop a sense of community obligation and mutual co-operation of such force as will sweep into
                    being a new era in our municipal life."4 It is claimed that the public
                    spirit aroused by the Saint Louis pageant was responsible for the adopting by that city of a new
                    charter against which the political powers of corruption and graft had marshalled their strength.
            A pageant to be a success should be the work of the entire community. The people in the community
                    must want a pageant and it should be conceived and directed by local talent instead of professional
                    showmen for no group of people from the outside can come in and do the thing successfully. The true
                    pageant will socialize the community and give a cohesiveness to its life because it is an
                    entertainment to which all can contribute. Especially, does it appeal to children;
            As an educational and moral agent, the pageant has a strong value. To condense a century into two and
                    one-half hours makes a rich lesson in social and political progress. Pageantry is the cleanest and
                    most wholesome form of drama. The community is given an opportunity for self-expression. The
                    criticisms directed against the theater are lacking against it. Ministers, teachers and others 
                  
                     4
                            Pageant and Masque of Saint Louis. Bulletin No. 2.
               
                     who oppose the theater from moral conviction, are vitally
                    interested in the cultivation and success of the community drama.
            A person who has never gone to school can appreciate this form of drama because it portrays only
                    those things that can be easily understood and that have a permanent value. It is a better teacher
                    than the text book; to the pupils an incentive to work; to the people in general a kind of
                    laboratory of history.
            The pageant is possible for a community of any size. The small town furnishes the best soil for its
                    growth; because in it there are fewer distracting influences. Unity of feeling and action are,
                    therefore, more easily acquired. Pageants are, of course, often given in the large cities and many
                    of these have proved to be successful, but it is impossible to bring about the personal
                    responsibility and interest in the large city as in the village or town.
            A discussion of the technique of the pageant leads one on to debatable ground more especially because
                    pageantry as an art has not been fully developed. True it is that the processional pageant and the
                    festival have been used from early times, but the community drama is a relatively modern affair. The
                    American pageant is an epic having a theme, an organic unity and an orderly progress of action.
            There is no easy way of producing a pageant. The secret of success in this field depends mainly upon
                    three things: 1, to know what to do; 2, to be full of enthusiasm and determination; 3, to have the
                    ability to execute plans.
            Much material for the historical episodes may be found in the town and private archives of the
                    locality, and it is much more desirable to get the material from this source than to call on outside
                    aid. Too much care can not be exercised in the historical accuracy of the details of the material to
                    be used. It will be better to omit from the program all community traditions because there is plenty
                    of material which can be substantiated historically without drawing on unreliable sources. One of
                    the values to be derived from the pageant is educational and nothing in the program should defeat
                    this purpose.
            
               Symbolism and Allegory—Shall symbolism and allegory be used in the
                    pageant or shall it be wholly realistic and historic? There are two answers to this question. Mr.
                    Davol in speaking of the pageant says, "Pageantry is veneration for past deeds, devotion to
                    present needs and dedication to future ideals,—realism, symbolism  and idealism."5 To depict the future,
                    symbolism must necessarily be employed. Symbolism and allegory in the hands of an artistic and
                    effective pageant-master may be used in an impressive manner in driving home the lesson of the
                    pageant. They are the means of presenting a fitting climax to the central theme of the drama and
                    they afford a strong device for dramatizing the hope of the present. If symbolism be employed, the
                    logical method to be followed is to study the present, to anticipate the future, and to connect the
                    present to the past. To illustrate, a pageant-master finds in the community that there is a large
                    foreign element in the population, which has not yet been completely assimilated. He seizes upon
                    this situation; he looks ahead to the time when they shall be Americans. With this idea in mind, he
                    then thinks of the development of the community through its industries in which the foreigner has
                    played a leading role. His central idea in this instance may easily be patriotic, the Americanizing
                    of the foreigners. Symbolism undoubtedly can be made strongly impressive in a pageant in this
                    community.
            On the other hand, there are very good reasons for excluding, entirely, symbolism and allegory.
                    First, there is great doubt whether the future could be so realistically treated as to be worth
                    while. It is very difficult to understand the present and the past, let alone speculating in regard
                    to future events. Second, with a few exceptions, pageant-masters (or those who have to assume the
                    duties of such) are not capable of using symbolism and allegory. A third and probably the greatest
                    objection to the futuristic pageant is that in a great many places it would indeed be difficult to
                    discover any theme upon which there could be unanimity of thought and feeling, and unless this
                    condition exists, the effect is lost. To illustrate, the pageant-master in 
                        Indianapolis
                     or 
                        Fort Wayne
                     would probably find it very hard to discover some idea or theme for which there is a
                    common interest. One constant danger in the larger towns and cities is that of letting the pageant
                    become the property of one class or section. It would seem, therefore, that although the purpose and
                    lesson which the pageant carries with it are stronger by use of symbolism and allegory, the wisest
                    and safest procedure is, in most instances, to subordinate symbolism and to rely mainly on the
                    history and realism of the past.
            
               Time—There are several reasons why it is better to give the 
                  
                     5 Davol, Handbook of Pageantry, page 141.
               
                     pageant in the daytime instead of the night. First, people can
                    come in from the adjoining districts during the day more easily than in the evening. Second, it is
                    less difficult to handle the crowd in the morning or afternoon than during the evening. Third, by
                    giving the performance sometime during the day, a holiday is made necessary and the declaring of
                    such gives the pageant considerable value in the eyes of the public.
            A wonderful effect can often be produced in the larger pageants, where the grounds are near the city,
                    by beginning along in the middle of the afternoon and closing in the evening with a scene in which
                    at the proper time the lights of the city may be flashed on.
            The time of the year should be selected when it is neither excessively hot nor cold and when there is
                    reasonable assurance of satisfactory weather. The spring and fall months are surely the best time.
            
               Site—The pageant should be given out-of-doors. It should take little
                    argument to convince one of this necessity. One of the principal ideas emphasized in the definition
                    of the pageant was that "the place is the hero." The "hero" is
                    not likely to be present in a closely-stuffed hall or even in a magnificent theater. The
                    "hero" will be found near some water site or in some spot with a hill or plateau
                    covered with forests and foliage as a background. The pageant grounds should be selected with the
                    idea of reproducing as easily and naturally as possible the early life of the community and still be
                    in such a position as to admit modern features in the performance.
            Having decided that certain grounds present a distinct character of pioneer life, various other
                    factors must be considered before a final selection is made.
            
               Accessibility—Secondary only to artistic attractiveness is that of
                    accessibility. The pageant-grounds should be accessible to both participants and the audience in
                    respect of railroads, automobiles, trolley and wagon roads.
            
               Size of the Ground—The grounds should be suited in size and proportions
                    to the best rendering of the different episodes of the pageant. Consideration should be made of both
                    the smallest and largest number in any single scene.
            
               Wind and Sun—The direction of the prevailing winds should be studied
                    during the week or month when the performance is to  take place;
                    also the direction of the sun's rays at different times during the hours of the
                    performance.
            
               Acoustics—Careful attention should be given the acoustics of a location.
                    If music and dialogue are to be effective they must be heard. It is easy enough to make experiments
                    along this line before beginning to build the grandstand by testing the voices of both men and women
                    on two or three different days.
            
               Landscaping—The position and number of trees, of bodies of water and the
                    slopes of the ground, if there are any, should be considered in the size of the grounds and the use
                    which can be made of these factors from a dramatic standpoint.
            
               Entrances and Exits—Most of the entrances to the grounds should be long,
                    while the exits for the most part should be short. In some episodes, a splendid effect will be
                    produced by having the players approach from a distance in full view of the audience. Entrances and
                    exits should be sufficient in number for the successful working out of the play.
            
               Gathering Places—Back of or near the entrances and out of sight of the
                    audience, there should be provided sufficient gathering places for all those who are to take part in
                    the play. There should be costume tents for those who can not put on their costumes at home.
                    Property tents, animal and vehicle inclosures must be arranged for, so that no confusion may arise
                    in the smoothness of presenting the pageant. There should be sanitary toilets.
            
               Grandstand—Extreme care must be exercised in planning and constructing
                    the grandstand. It must be large enough to accommodate all those who assemble and it should be so
                    constructed that every person can see each player and hear all that is said. This is no easy task.
                    In most places the minimum size of the audience will probably be not less than two thousand. The
                    material to be used in construction must be of sound quality and it should be built by those and
                    only those who are experienced in this kind of work and who are fully trustworthy. One need but
                    reflect a few moments to recall instances near at hand of the collapse of platforms and grandstands
                    with their frightful toll of injury and death. These bitter experiences of the past should certainly
                    drive home the lesson for the future. By all means the grandstand, no matter by whom built, should
                    be examined by a competent building inspector. The building contractor should only be too glad to
                    have his work tested and approved, and the public will feel safe and secure. The approaches  to the grandstand should be so planned as to admit of free and
                    easy agress and egress. There should be no crowding and pushing either at the beginning or end of
                    the performance. A blue print, in itself an advertisement, of the grandstand should be made two or
                    three months before the day for the performance so that tickets may be put on sale that far in
                    advance of the date set.
            
               Presentation of the Play—The day for the performance is a busy one for
                    the pageant-master. The pageant must be presented with action, life and snap. Nothing disconcerts an
                    audience quite so much as to wait an unnecessary length of time between acts or to sit through a
                    performance which drags. The pageant must be well-grouped and must not be too rigid and formal. Mass
                    movements are especially impressive and effect by contrast should often be used.
            First impressions go a long way with an audience. The best pageants begin "doubtfully or far
                    away" with a fairy dance of the spirits of nature that precede man's occupation on
                    the earth, or the pageant may open with the cry and war whoop of Indians rushing in from all sides.
                    It would be pretty hard to present a pageant in America and leave the red man out of it. A flash of
                    colors, accompanied by proper music, should accompany the opening of the performance. This is the
                    point: the time to capture the audience is the first two or three minutes of the play. Make them
                    forget their popcorn, candy, and chewing gum. If their attention is riveted on the play during the
                    first few minutes, the rest is easy.
            The number and length of the various episodes in the community pageant depend upon the amount and
                    nature of the material to be used. The number of episodes may vary from three to ten and the length
                    of time of each from ten to thirty minutes. The time of the entire performance should not exceed
                    three hours and in most cases it is even better to limit the time to two hours. Mr. Davol thinks
                    that the standard pageant consists of a cast of two hundred people, an audience of two thousand and
                    a time limit of two hours.
            The historical episodes are usually linked together by some sort of music or chorus that prepares for
                    the next scene. The music, which should convey the finer aspirations of the pageant, should be of
                    both kinds, vocal and instrumental. Many favorite songs may be used such as "Home Sweet
                    Home," "Auld Lang Syne," "Star Spangled Banner," and
                    "America." The instrumental music, of  which
                    the only satisfactory kind is that of the orchestra, should in part at least be composed for the
                    occasion. The orchestra should be concealed from the audience by means of a screen of green foliage
                    of some kind. The music must be there but, in order to produce the best effect, the source should be
                    invisible.
            Some writers hold that the pageant should be without dialogue; that the strongest effects can be
                    produced by choral song, pantomimic action and group-dancing. Others maintain that speech is
                    absolutely essential in a successful presentation of the drama. The best idea seems to be that
                    dialogue should be used, otherwise the historical scenes would be deprived of their educational
                    value. Caution should be exercised by using the dialogue sparingly. It should be terse and distinct
                    and should mark the culmination of some action.
            All incidents should end in a grand finale when all the various players with the
                    portable properties appear in a procession and disperse in order and decorum. Often the players
                    kneel and chant the last stanza of "America." At other times the pageant is closed
                    by the singing of the "Star Spangled Banner" by the entire cast and audience,
                    accompanied by the orchestra. This usually makes a patriotic and inspiring closing.
            
               Organization of the Pageant—The success of a pageant depends to a large
                    degree upon careful organization. After a community has decided to enter into the civic enterprise,
                    a representative committee must begin preparations for the coming event.6 The
                    committee should be composed of representatives of all the various wholesome and progressive
                    interests of the commounity as e. g., the different trades, churches, schools, religious,
                    educational, commercial and social bodies in the locality. The committee should begin its work six
                    months or more before the time of the performance.
            
               The Pageant-master—The most important part in the pageant-machine is the
                    pageant-master. He, it is, who must direct the whole movement. His tasks are many and arduous. He,
                    alone, will be held chiefly responsible for failure. His authority, therefore, should be supreme.
                    The pageant-master should be selected early by the representative committee and it is better that
                    the committee select someone from the outside so that he may be free always to use his best judgment
                    and not be tied down to any local interests and 
                  
                     6 In the largest places it, no doubt, Is advisable for the committee
                            to form a corporation under the laws of the State because of the amount of expenses of
                            management, and in order to make the corporation as a whole responsible.
               
                     prejudices. If conditions are such that some person in the
                    community must act, extreme care should be exercised to choose one who is broad and liberal in his
                    sympathies and interests. His selection should be a unanimous one. The pageant-master must have a
                    strong and inspiring personality because the modern pageant depends to a great extent upon his own
                    personal imagination. He should have a capacity for hard work and an enthusiasm which can be drawn
                    upon for disappointments, indifferences, and discouragements, even opposition at times.
            The pageant-master must pick from the mass of historic material that part which is available for his
                    own purpose. His great handicap will be culling out material which he knows would be interesting to
                    present. Some pageant-masters prefer to write the pageant themselves; but others turn this work over
                    to local writers who compose the different episodes. In the latter case, however, he must edit the
                    manuscripts, cut down the episodes to the proper length, and unify the entire composition by means
                    of interludes. He must pick his assistants with great care for they will not only lighten his
                    burdens but insure a greater success for the performance.
            
               The Historian—The historian is the right-hand man to the pageant-master,
                    for it is the historian who must know all the details of the community's history. Not only
                    that, but he must be able to criticise and pick those historical events that have been most
                    important in the development of the community. He must see clearly the relation of these events to
                    the history of the State and Nation. In working up the material, he must be accurate in description
                    as well as in narrative. Emphasis should not be laid wholly on political affairs, but the economic,
                    social, religious and educational phases should have a place. Upon the historian, the pageant-master
                    will depend for ideas concerning the dress, manners, customs, and weapons of the early settlers. In
                    getting together the materials, the historian should use whenever possible the exact words of the
                    principal speakers on certain important occasions. A visit to some of the old men of the community
                    will be not only interesting, but invaluable in the collection of materials.
            Besides this field of activity, there is still another duty quite as important for the historian. He
                    should urge that a study of the local and State history be made a part of the work of the public and
                    private schools. He should invite co-operation on the part of the pupils in securing new material
                    for often there are locked up in  boxes and trunks or thrown
                    into attics of the pupils' homes, documents of inestimable value. If once an enthusiasm is
                    aroused in the pupils for local history, they will vie with one another in digging up old songs,
                    manuscripts, clothing, tools, guns, and the like.
            
               Committees—From the committee representative of all the various
                    religious, commercial, industrial, educational and social organizations, there should be chosen an
                    executive committee of three. These three will have to do most of the work, meeting frequently and
                    reporting to the larger committee once every three or four weeks. This executive body must consist
                    of those individuals who are enthusiastic, industrious, and intelligent. They must be citizens who
                    have a partiotic regard for the past and a vision of better things for the future.
            This executive committee may and probably must appoint other committees such as those on grounds,
                    publicity, music, costume, and finance. These committees should not exceed three to each one and
                    should consist of local people. They should be appointed four to six months previous to the day of
                    the pageant. Over and above all is the pageant-master who is commander-in-chief and court of last
                    appeal.
            
               Finance—The finance committee should be composed of solid business
                    citizens whose aim should be to make the pageant pay for itself and thereby avoid future sore spots.
                    Very few people object to paying a reasonable sum to witness an entertainment. In fact, people in
                    the 
                        United States
                     generally look upon free performances as valueless and have more respect for a thing
                    when an admission is charged. As long as Americans are willing to pay from twenty-five cents to two
                    dollars and more to see a baseball or football game, one need not fear to charge for a pageant. With
                    efficient management and proper advertisement the pageant will draw the crowds.
            It is best to have from the beginning a guarantee fund to cover all expenses such as advertisement,
                    office hire, rent, etc. This fund should be raised by popular subscription which should be limited
                    to an amount not to exceed ten dollars by any one person. This limit will prevent individual and
                    firm advertising and will make the laborer and small wage-earner feel that this is their pageant in
                    common with all others who contribute. Everyone will work harder and be more interested because each
                    will feel that he is a stockholder in this community enterprise. This fund will also enable the
                    management to meet bills as they are presented by drawing 
                    checks upon the bank where the money is on deposit.7 When the banks and business
                    firms find that the finance committee "pays as it goes," a better feeling exists
                    for the undertaking. Everyone feels that the pageant is going to be a success.
            
               Publicity—One can not begin to advertise too early, but there must be a
                    systematic plan pursued with the one definite purpose in mind of putting the community on the map.
                    The publicity committee must be composed of persons who have some artistic sense and who also know
                    something about human psychology.
            After the time and place of the pageant have been determined, good small-sized circulars, which will
                    fit nicely inside the ordinary envelope, should be printed. In the larger communities, thousands of
                    these should be distributed. See that every business house and professional man are supplied and
                    request that they kindly insert these circulars in their outgoing mail. They will only be too glad
                    to help advertise their community in this fashion.
            Artistically designed posters should be made to place in the windows of commercial houses, banks,
                    railway and traction stations, etc.8 These posters should not be cheap and made
                    of poor material for you are not advertising a show or circus. A person of unusual artistic
                    temperament should design the poster. In some of the larger pageants of the country, the posters,
                    alone, have cost hundreds of dollars, but often a profit has been derived from them by their sale
                    after the pageant has been given. The poster with a picture of the life-saver, made for the Cape Cod
                    Pageant, is a splendid work of art and hundreds of them were sold.
            Six or eight months before the day of the pageant, articles on local and State history should begin
                    to appear in the newspapers. The entire press of the city should be solicited for space in order
                    that good feeling may exist and in order that these articles may be read as widely as possible. Paid
                    advertisement should be divided proportionately among all the newspapers of the community. On the
                    opening day of the ticket sale it is a good plan to have several of the newspaper reporters around
                    to take notice of the large sale of tickets, for a report that a large number of tickets have been
                    purchased the first day makes good advertisement.9
            
            
               
                  7 It is not presumed that all the money subscribed will be paid in advance
                        but enough will probably be advanced to meet some of the expenses as they are made.
               
                  8 In order that business men may not object to the display of them in
                        their windows, the size should be limited to 20$$14 or approximately that.
               
                  9 Before the opening day of the ticket sale, several tickets should have
                        been sold to those who are very much interested in the success of the pageant and it should be
                        arranged for them to purchase their tickets, seemingly, on the first day.
            
            
            In addition to the circulars, posters and newspapers as publicity mediums, various other devices may
                    be utilized such as banners stretched across the street, arrows pointing to the grounds, special
                    pennants, watch fobs, and special stationery for the committees, envelopes, stamps, postals, etc.
            A fine plan to use on the day of the pageant is to have those players that can, to dress at home and
                    go in costume to the pageant-grounds. Bands of Indians roving here and there on the streets,
                    soldiers dressed in the Civil War uniforms, 
                        Quaker
                     mothers riding in street cars, the pioneer in his buckskin suit, furnish the finest
                    means for advertising on the day of the performance.
            The declaring of a holiday or half-holiday impresses the people with the value of the pageant. It is
                    hard to conceive of any community, where the proper management has been carried on, whose business
                    men will not be glad to give their employees a holiday and in a great number of cases they will do
                    this with full pay for the workmen.
            
               Costumes—There are three things necessary to handle successfully the
                    matter of costumes: first, a knowledge of color; second, skill in the use of materials; third,
                    ability to buy.
            The pageant should illuminate the landscape with a sort of barbaric, oriental splendor. Use related
                    colors—blue and green, yellow and green, blue and gold, red and green, violet and orange,
                    brown and yellow. Black should be used sparingly, and, whenever deep effects are wanted, use dark
                    green or dark blue broadcloth.10
            
            The American Indian is easily portrayed with some green paint, turkey feathers, brown fleshings,
                    painted canvas moccasins, and bow and arrow. The costumes of friendly Indians should be made of
                    leather or leather-colored canton flannel in the manner of long trousers, and shirts adorned with
                    leather cut in strips and bead work, feathers, lines of paint and fringe. Indian girls may wear
                    short skirts and jackets similarly trimmed. Indians on the war path must wear brown fleshings, the
                    loin cloth and the war bonnet. The more blue and yellow paint on their faces, the better it is. Do
                    not dispatch Indians to fight with blankets on their shoulders. The pioneer frontiersman must have
                    his coon-skin cap, fringed buckskin coat 
                  
                     10 Water colors should he used in preference to those of oil.
               
                     and long hunting rifle. The 
                        Quaker
                     should appear in a broad-brimmed hat and dim-colored clothes of simple trimming.
            With the Revolution (1776) came more color, redcoats, bright colored nankin waistcoats, white
                    stockings, buckled shoes, and the three-cornered hats. The women wore their brocades, 
                         China 
                     silks and wide skirts. Their hair was dressed high and powdered. Beginning about 1840,
                    the tight pantaloon strapped under a calfskin boot, the top-heavy beaver hat and the swallow-tailed
                    coat make their appearance. The Civil War gives us the faded blue uniform. Women wear mantles and
                    poke bonnets. The wide hoop skirts disappear.
            Fairies emerging from the woods may be clad in costumes shading from 
                        Naples
                     yellow to umber. Violet and lilac drapings with green caps make pretty colors for
                    children. Gauze wings for butterflies may be stretched upon wire frames and attached to the
                    shoulders of the children.
            Costly materials are unnecessary. Cheese cloth from six to ten cents per yard; silkaline, ten to
                    twelve cents; crepe cloth, fifteen cents; muslins and cambrics, six cents, and canton flannel,
                    twelve cents up, are the main goods to use in making the costumes.
            The following list of books give valuable suggestions for costuming a pageant: Alice Morse
                    Earle's Two Centuries of Costumes in America, Macmillan; Elizabeth
                    McClellan's, Historic Dress in America, Jacobs; Modes and
                        Manners of the Nineteenth Century, by M. Edwardes and Grace Rhys; Dress
                    Design, by Talbot Hughes, Macmillan Company, should be in the hands of the costume makers.
            Indispensable to the successful staging of a pageant is a dependable and energetic man to take charge
                    of all the properties. The property man should be given a copy of the play and a typewritten or
                    printed list of all the necessary properties except the costumes. The list should be divided into as
                    many acts and scenes as the play has. Every possession should be catalogued as soon as it arrives
                    and to this identification should be added the name of the donor or lender.
            
               Conclusion—There is no better way in which a community can observe an
                    anniversary than by means of the pageant in which participants of the play are citizens of that
                    locality. True, the community-drama is young and there is not a well-defined technique yet for it,
                    but this much seems sure, the success of the pageant depends 
                    upon the relation of the individual to it, upon the hearty co-operation and entire support of the
                    community.
            II. INDIANA PAGEANT IN 1916
            The year 1916 will witness the celebration of Indiana's one hundredth anniversary of
                    statehood. These have been eventful years in which Indiana has grown from a condition of
                    insignificance to one of great importance in the life of the Nation. In 1816, Indians occupied most
                    of the territory of the State; the number of white settlers approximating 65,000. Today a look at
                    the map shows that the Indians have been dispossessed and that approximately 3,000,000 inhabitants,
                    engaged in farming, manufacturing, mining, and the various other industries, occupy the territory
                    within the boundaries of the State. With this increase in population together with the development
                    of its industries has come many of the perplexing political, social and economic problems. Certain
                    it is, that the citizens of this commonwealth can well afford in the year, 1916, to take a look
                    backward, frankly acknowledge the mistakes of the past, but, receiving inspiration from the good
                    achieved through important historical events and through the lives of Indiana's noble men
                    and women, look resolutely forward to a bigger and better future.
            Already steps have been taken in the organization and promotion of the Indiana Centennial. The State
                    Legislature very wisely appropriated a sum of $25,000 to be used in this work. The
                    Indiana Historical Commission with Governor Samuel M. Ralston, president; Frank B. Wynn,
                    vice-president, and Harlow Lindley, secretary, has been appointed.11 This
                    committee, with headquarters at the State House, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , stands ready to give assistance in every way possible. Besides this body, advice and
                    valuable suggestions will be rendered gladly to anyone asking for the same by the history
                    departments of the different colleges and universities, and by the State Librarian.
            It is one thing to write and to urge that the citizens of Indiana observe her centennial next year,
                    but it is quite another and more difficult task to tell how the work is to be planned; to be really
                    helpful by being specific in advice and suggestion. An attempt, therefore, will be made in this
                    section of the article, even at the risk of 
                  
                     11 The other members of the Committee are James A. "Woodburn,
                            Charles W. Moore, Samuel M. Foster, Charity Dye, John Cavanaugh and Lew M.
                            O'Bannon.
               
                     being thought arbitrary, to show in a definite way how the work
                    should be organized.
            The unit of organization which the writer has in mind in this section is that of the County. No
                    objections to the smaller units, such as the township, town or village, are interposed, and a State
                    Pageant at 
                        Indianapolis
                     is especially to be desired; but for the sake of brevity and to prevent confusion, it
                    has been thought best to illustrate an organization with the County as a unit.12
            
            The public school must be the neucleus of the pageant work. Whether the school officials want to do
                    the work or not their duty is plain. They should be the promoters of this celebration, for the
                    success of the Indiana Centennial in 1916 will depend largely upon the enthusiasm, hard work and
                    intelligence of the school men of the State. This statement is not made with the idea that
                    patriotism and intelligence are peculiar characteristics of school officials, alone, but the
                    argument for this is that there is no institution in a community that more nearly represents the
                    common interests, sympathies, and ideals of its citizens than does the public school. The school
                    heads do not represent any church, fraternity, lodge, commercial club or labor organization, but
                    they do represent the entire community and should be above petty quarrels, factions and jealous
                    rivalries. How would the school authorities feel to sit back and to permit this work to be
                    undertaken by some social club or church? The result in all probability would be failure and the
                    responsibility for such could justly be placed at the door of the school officials.
            The writer recalls a celebration of the one hundredth anniversary of a certain locality in the State,
                    in which a street carnival was the main attraction and centennial features were a slight affair. The
                    carnival was a disgrace to the community and during the centennial week, ministers, school teachers,
                    and religionists of all kinds were busy in denouncing the committee, but in reality they were
                    condemning themselves. The management was undertaken by a group of young men who, it seems, were
                    enthusiastic for a celebration of the city's one hundredth birthday, but they were
                    inexperienced as to how the thing should be done. Meeting with scant encouragement, anywhere, and
                    seeing financial loss in sight, they engaged 
                  
                     12 The smaller pageants should precede, if possible, the county
                            pageant. In most cases, these can not be very elaborate and should- probably t'e in
                            the nature of a home-coming. In most instances, the county seat will be the center of the
                            organization. There may be in a few cases, places where better sites could be selected than
                            one near the chief city in the county.
               
                     a carnival company to come for a week and from the money thus
                    derived from the management of the show company, they aimed to meet all expenses. There could be one
                    result only: the centennial was a failure. Criticism was directed against the committee, but the
                    greater fault was in those who criticized. In this instance, the school should have seized the
                    opportunity and placed itself in readiness to serve the community by becoming the center of activity
                    in the management of the centennial.
            Too much emphasis can not be put on the fact that the centennial celebration is not to be the work of
                    a club, a church, a fraternity, or any such organization; for failure in most instances is sure to
                    follow. The school must be the center with all these other interests represented. Much has been
                    written about the "school as a social center" and here is a grand opportunity to
                    put into practice this educational idea.
            After school has started in the fall of 1915, the school superintendent should call a meeting of all
                    his principals and teachers and put the matter of a centennial before them.13 He
                    should explain the purpose of such a work and ask for co-operation and loyalty from them. Any
                    literature in pageantry which the superintendent may have should be distributed at this time.
            One of the first moves that should be made by the school head is the organization of a
                    teachers' club for the study of the history of the community, and of the State. Teachers
                    who know little or nothing about the history of their locality and commonwealth, can do little in
                    arousing interest in pupils.
            After a study of the growth of the community and the State has been completed, and after the outline
                    of the most important historical events has been made, the next step should be the teaching of these
                    facts in the public schools of the State. The school law of Indiana provides for the teaching of
                    both State and 
                        United States
                     civics. Why not devote at least the first half of the year 1918-'16 to a study
                    of Indiana history and civics? The teacher who now knows the main facts of local and State history
                    will find it delightful to teach these things to the pupils. Have the pupils draw and make things
                    illustrative of pioneer life such as the log hut, the white top canvas 
                  
                     13 The city superintendent. The county superintendent is not the one
                            to lead in the work because his field of activity is too wide and his duties too many, to
                            assume such a responsibility. He is not in constant touch with a certain definite group of
                            teachers like the city superintendent. To be sure there should be co$oUperation
                            between the two and the county school head should encourage the study of local and State
                            history In his schools.
               
                     wagon, and the old-fashioned baby cradle and crib. Pictures of
                    historic places such as those at 
                        Vincennes
                    , Corydon and 
                        Indianapolis
                     can be shown to advantage. A teacher need not go out of the State to get material for
                    biography study when there have been so many illustrious men and women in Indiana.
            From the very beginning a place in the school building should be provided to serve as a museum or
                    exhibit of articles which may be brought to school by the pupils. They should be encouraged to bring
                    with them anything of historical importance such as old documents, songs, guns, tools, weapons and
                    rare articles of clothing, with the assurance that all these things will be labeled and catalogued
                    with the name of the donor or lender. In order to avoid loss of any kind, some competent
                    person—preferably a teacher—should be appointed to look after these
                    properties. There is no doubt but that the historical literature of Indiana will be greatly enriched
                    by the new material brought to light during the centennial year.
            In addition to the active co-operation of the pupils, invitations should be extended to the pioneers
                    of the community to visit the schools and, in some cases, to ask them to tell about things as they
                    used to be. Veterans there are in every place who can tell interestingly of Civil War. service.
                    Where, because of infirmities, the old people can not come to the school building, it would be,
                    besides an act of courtesy, a valuable thing for the teachers to pay them a visit.
            The history department of the high school will doubtlessly be called upon to select the material for
                    the episodes of the pageant. This they should do with the purpose of picking out only those events
                    which have historical significance. While in most cases, the opening scene in the first episode will
                    portray the first settlers of the community, emphasis should be put upon those historical facts in
                    local history, which have State and National importance. The head of the history department should
                    be ready at any time to assist the pageant-master in regard to suggestions as to the dress, manners,
                    customs, religion and education of the early settlers. Another duty of the history department will
                    be to furnish the local papers with brief and accurate articles on the history of the community.
            After the material is collected for the episodes, a genuine opportunity is then furnished for a real
                    piece of composition work on the part of the English teachers who should study the material and
                    dramatize it, i. e., write the pageant. English teachers who have advanced students might profitably
                    spend two or three weeks in  working over the material in order
                    to get the assistance of the pupils. This plan would afford both teachers and pupils a chance to do
                    creative work, a thing much desired in all teaching.
            After the entire school system is at work and when the school pupils have dug into old trunks, boxes,
                    the attic, etc., and are asking questions at home concerning this man and that event, and are
                    telling many - interesting things themselves, the time is ripe for the superintendent to begin his
                    work outside the school. His first move to make is to lay his plans for a pageant before the school
                    trustees and enlist their support. They are usually a fine group of men and influential in the
                    affairs of the locality. He should not make the mistake, now, of announcing a meeting of the
                    citizens to consider plans for the organizing of a pageant because in all probability but a few
                    would be present. His second step is to see a number of the representative men and women of the
                    community who are wide awake and who will be interested in a historical pageant that will do the
                    community credit. Considerable missionary work may be necessary as it will take some little time to
                    educate those few to the rich possibilities of a centennial celebration.
            Now that a few are interested besides the school officials, a general meeting should be called, to
                    which everybody should be invited and special efforts ought to be made to have representatives
                    present from all the various religious, educational, social, industrial and commercial
                    organizations. A well-arranged program should be given in which short and interesting talks may be
                    made by the superintendent and those who have already been seen in regard to a centennial
                    celebration. Appropriate music should be furnished. This is the idea: this meeting must be carefully
                    planned and executed for much depends upon the outcome. "A bad beginning makes a good
                    ending," is poor logic for this occasion because everyone should go away feeling that a
                    community enterprise is about to be undertaken in which he must do his share.
            At this meeting, the Representative Committee should be selected. Extreme care should be exercised in
                    the makeup of this body. The art of the politician may be used here in a justifiable manner by
                    knowing definitely beforehand who should compose the personnel of this committee. With the proper
                    committee selected, the school now becomes only one institution among the many other organizations
                    to promote the work of the pageant. The superintendent should at no time try to make the pageant a
                    school affair. He, himself, should  now retreat to the
                    background, and become a mere private in the ranks of the workers. He should not absolutely refuse
                    to accept the responsible positions of Chairman of the Executive Committee or pageant-master, but he
                    should avoid these, if possible.
            The first duty for the Representative Committee will be to select a pageant-master. After this is
                    done, it then becomes the duty of all to obey his commands. The pageant-master will select for the
                    different parts of the performance individuals in the community, all of whom should stand ready to
                    assist in every manner possible. Only under such conditions can success be assured.
            III. A TYPICAL COMMUNITY PAGEANT OF INDIANA IN 1916
            The counterpart of the struggle, accompanied often by great adversities of any single individual for
                    economic independence, may easily be found in the character of any pioneer community in Indiana in
                    its fight for industrial freedom and greatness. In this section of the article, certain episodes and
                    scenes suggestive of the early life of the city of 
                        Evansville
                     are given with the hope that the reader may find in these concrete things, something
                    analogous to his own locality.14
            
            
               EPISODE I—(1795-1805)
            
               Scene I—In 1775, Louis Viviat, an agent of the 
                        Wabash
                     Land Company, purchases from the Piankeshaw Indians, 37,497,600 acres of land of which 
                        Evansville
                     is now a part. This scene may represent Viviat in council with the eleven Piankeshaw
                    chiefs and his obtaining from them a deed15 of the ceded territory. The exact
                    words of the deed may be quoted, showing how willingly the Indians relinquished their right to this
                    land for certain things such as blankets, ribbons, knives, kettles, gunpowder, lead, tobacco, salt,
                    etc.
            
               Scene II—On February 14, 1805, Governor William H. Harrison proclaims on
                    the part of the 
                        United States
                    , the treaty which had been made between him and the Delawares on August 27, 1804,
                    whereby these Indians give up their claim to that tract of country of which 
                        Evansville
                     is now a part. The land is placed on the market at the land office at Post 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            
               
                  14 Because of certain personal reasons, the writer has selected this
                        place. It is not the purpose at all in this discussion to present a history of 
                            Evansville
                         for such material would be both superfluous and irrelevant in an article of this
                        kind. It is believed that the events suggested in the scenes for the 
                            Evansville
                         pageant are typical of many other communities in the State.
               
                  15 Congress never confirmed the claim of this company.
            
            
            
               EPISODE II—(1812-1832.)
            
               Scene I—In 1812, Hugh McGary, a 
                        Kentucky
                     pioneer purchases from the government of the 
                        United States
                     the land on which the city of 
                        Evansville
                     now stands; and leaving his home in 
                        Gibson county
                    , Indiana, comes to the north bank of the 
                        Ohio
                     and there builds him a log house in which to live.
            This scene may represent McGary as a typical frontiersman; dressed in buckskin clothing, coonskin
                    cap, and deerskin moccasins, with his "pea" or "squirrel" flint
                    lock rifle, coming to his new home. With his ax and augur, he sets to work to build him a log house
                    of the spacious dimensions, 38$$18 feet.
            
               Scene II—In 1817, Colonel McGary sells 130 acres of land to Gen. Robert
                    M. Evans and James W. Jones, who unite with him in remodeling and enlarging the town. A number of
                    lots are sold this year and attention is called to the fact that this is a convenient landing place
                    for 
                        Vincennes
                     and other towns on the 
                        Wabash
                    . Realizing that to insure the growth of their town, it must become a county seat, they
                    seek to effect a division of 
                        Warrick county
                    . Their success is imperiled by the opposition of Col. Ratliff 
                        Boone
                    , who does not wish to see his county divided. A meeting is arranged—probably
                    through the efforts of Gen. Joseph Lane—between McGary and Evans on the one side, and 
                        Boone
                     and Daniel Grass on the other, in which an agreement is reached for a division of 
                        Warrick
                    . Vander-burg county is thus created, and after a meeting of the commissioners in
                    McGary's warehouse, it is decided to make 
                        Evansville
                     the county seat. In the following year, 
                        Evansville
                     becomes an incorporated town with McGary as the first president of the town board. The
                    tax levy is twenty cents on the hundred dollars, and the total taxes for the first year amount to
                    $191.28.
            This scene, in the beginning, may represent McGary as discouraged over the prospects of the town, but
                    with an indomitable will, he sets to work to overcome all obstacles. It would be very easy to
                    arrange the meeting where it was decided to divide 
                        Warrick county
                    . The meeting of the commissioners in McGary's warehouse, for the purpose of
                    selecting the "seat of justice" for the new county may be shown. The first session
                    of the board would no doubt be very interesting.
            
               Scene III—(1832) McGary is accused by Mark Wheeler of stealing his
                    horse, a crime in those days as serious as that of murder.  A
                    warrant is issued for the arrest of McGary, whereupon the constable, Samuel Hooker, anticipating
                    resistance from the fighting old colonel, takes with him five men; heavily armed. They find McGary
                    sitting astride Wheeler's horse. He shows no fight and willingly returns with his captors.
                    He is tried and acquitted, his defense being that he had bought the horse from one Was son who,
                    after the arrest of McGary, had run away. A majority of the citizens believe in the
                    colonel's innocence, but he has his enemies who still keep alive the story. The old
                    gentleman, feeling keenly their slanderous attacks on his character, goes on with his business for
                    some time, but at last he becomes broken-hearted and leaves for the South, presumably on a business
                    trip. He never returns.
            This scene can be made beautifully impressive. Wheeler can be shown to appear before Squire Jacobs,
                    who issues the warrant for the arrest of McGary. The constable and his five strongly armed men are
                    seen to leave. McGary welcomes them as friends only to learn that he is under arrest for horse
                    stealing. The trial takes place and the colonel is declared innocent. The citizens, generally,
                    rejoice in his acquital, but his few enemies keep alive the story by telling it to the new settlers
                    as they come here to live. The last part of the scene should represent McGary broken-hearted, riding
                    away from the city that he loved and had done so much for, and just before he gets out of sight of
                    the audience, he stops, and turning around in his saddle he takes his farewell look at the little
                    town. The lesson of this scene, the evil consequences of slanderous attacks upon another's
                    character, can be made as strongly impressive as the same theme expressed by means of the drama.
            
               EPISODE III— (1833-'44)
            
               Scene I—(1835-36) The State Legislature passes the Internal Improvement
                    Bill and 
                        Evansville
                     is made the southern terminus of the Central, 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Erie
                     Canals. This makes 
                        Evansville
                     the outlet of two rich valleys, and as a consequence of these commercial prospects,
                    emigration increases greatly and real estate advances to high and speculative rates. This part of
                    the episode, of course, will represent the people rejoicing over the expectant prosperity of their
                    community and their joy is given expression in one of the old time barbecues.
            
               Scene II—(1837-'38) The financial crisis comes and 
                        Evansville
                    
                     shares with all the other places in the country in its evil
                    results. The work of internal improvement is abandoned; trade in general is stagnant, and population
                    decreases.
            This scene is the antithesis of the first in this episode. The people are now gloomy and depressed in
                    spirit; some bringing their produce to market only to be turned away for lack of money, while others
                    may be shown losing their property to the eastern creditors because they have not the money to make
                    their payments.
            
               EPISODE IV— (1845‐'60)
            
               Scene I—On January 27, 1847, a special charter is granted to 
                        Evansville
                     for its incorporation as a city, by the State Legislature. The first meeting of the
                    city council is held April 12th of the same year.
            
               Scene II—In March, 1848, the city enters into contract with a private
                    company to grade the river bank and construct a wharf, fronting on five squares, a length of nearly
                    two thousand feet.
            This scene represents an important step in the commercial prosperity of the city. 
                        Evansville
                     is at this time the center of a great flood of commerce coming from the 
                        Ohio
                     and the 
                        Wabash
                     Valleys. It might be easy enough to show the old flatboat of those days, especially if
                    the pageant-ground is near the river.
            
               Scene III—In 1850, work on the 
                        Evansville
                     and Crawfords-ville Railroad is begun. Both the city and county aid by the issue of a
                    large amount of bonds while the citizens furnish such individual aid as is possible.
            This last part of the episode reveals another great advance in the up building of the city. In this
                    scene, the conflict may be brought out between those who were interested in the canal and those who
                    do not believe that 
                        Evansville
                     can ever become great without railroad facilities, a struggle between conservatism and
                    progressivism.
            
               EPISODE V— (1861-'65)
            
               Scene I—On April 12, 1861, Fort Sumter is fired upon. April 17, 1861, a
                    call, signed by the leading citizens of 
                        Evansville
                    , is issued for a public meeting at the court house in the evening of the same day.
                    Because of the presence of so large a gathering, the meeting is held near the market house, where a
                    stirring address is made by  James E. Blythe. On April 19, Capt.
                    Noah S. Thompson, a veteran of the Mexican War, telegraphs the adjutant general at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , "Will you receive a company from this city?" The answer comes back,
                    "Yes, come on immediately." The company is mustered into the 
                        United States
                     service, as Company E, Fourteenth Infantry. Before departing for 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the company is presented with a beautiful silk flag by the women of 
                        Evansville
                    .
            This scene may be dramatized effectively in one of several ways. An impressive picture would be that
                    where the troops are presented the flag by the women of the city, Mr. John Shanklin making the
                    presentation speech, the exact words of which could be used to a good effect. The volunteers of
                    Company E then march away to the music of some national air played by the orchestra. Or the scene
                    might be that of a number of immigrants who have just arrived in time to attend the first meeting
                    called after the news of the firing on Fort Sumter, and who take the oath of allegiance administered
                    that evening by Mayor Conrad Baker, and within a short time thereafter volunteer to fight for their
                    new home and country.
            
               Scene II—This is a scene where one of the soldiers of Company E is
                    brought home, wounded. The citizens who have anxiously awaited news from the first company that
                    enlisted in 
                        Evansville
                    , are now much excited. In a fit of fever the soldier describes the battle in which he
                    was wounded. While he is describing the conflict between the two armies, off in the front, at a
                    distance where only the outline of the armies may be seen, a battle may be raging between the Blue
                    and the Gray, with the two flags plainly discernible. This scene should be given primarily to bring
                    out a lesson of peace. Towards the close of the soldier's talk he should be made to say to
                    his family standing nearby that they don't understand the War, that the soldiers of the
                    North and South do not hate one another, that the soldiers of the South are just as brave and think
                    they are fighting for principle just the same as the soldiers of the North.
            In the foregoing episodes, an effort has been made to select a number of events'that were
                    historically significant in the development of the life and character of the city of 
                        Evansville
                    , and in a lesser degree of the State of Indiana. At no time has the thought been that
                    all these different scenes should or could be used in a pageant of two or three hours in length, but
                    the idea was simply to show that good material was available. The work of selecting and unifying the
                    material is that of the pageant-master.
            
            For at least two reasons, no suggestions have been offered in regard to the nature of the episodes
                    which should follow the Civil War period. First, some pageant-masters might not care to extend the
                    pageant beyond the period of the Civil War. Second, presuming that the pageant-master should not
                    want to bring the performance down to include the present and to symbolize the future, it has been
                    thought unwise, because of the great number and the complexity of events since 1865, to attempt in
                    an article of this length to select any further events, important as they may have been in local,
                    and in State history.
         
         
         
            The Era of the Tassements or Stockaded Trading Posts
            By HUBERT M. SKINNER, President of the 
                        Porter County
                     Historical Society
            With the wild, stupendous dream of 
                        France
                     that it could seize the interior of North America, making a highway of the Great Lakes
                    and the 
                        Mississippi
                     from Quebec to the Gulf of 
                        Mexico
                    , came the era of the tassements, or stockaded trading posts made of
                    logs set perpendicularly in the ground.
            There were tassements erected all along the shores of the lakes and of the 
                        Mississippi
                     and its eastern confluents. An endless passing of canoes kept all the tassements in touch, one with another. The men in the canoes were of three classes. They
                    were traders, explorers and priests. All three classes were animated by a zeal amounting almost to
                    frenzy. The French king paid the explorers; the great societies of the church supported the priests;
                    and the profits of the fur trade animated the commercial men. The latter very generally married
                    Indian wives.
            It was long assumed that the 
                        Mississippi
                    , discovered and crossed by De Soto in 1541, flowed out from one of the Great Lakes,
                    though its source had not been discovered; nor was it found indeed for five generations after De
                    Soto. In 1679, a water route involving a portage (or carrying place for canoes) of
                    four miles (from the site of 
                        South Bend
                     to the Kankakee) was discovered, to connect Lake 
                        Michigan
                     with the 
                        Mississippi
                     via the 
                        St. Joseph
                    , the Kankakee, and the 
                        Illinois
                     rivers. There were three other routes with portages. The Fox and 
                        Wisconsin
                     rivers constituted one of these; the 
                        Chicago
                     and the Des Plaines rivers another; and the Maumee and headwaters of the 
                        Wabash
                    , the third.
            With the tassements of the great chain were usually mission houses, Indian tepees
                    or lodges, etc., and many of these posts became the nuclei of future cities. The tassements conspicuous for their missions took, usually, the names of the latter, being
                    dedicated to some saint, as 
                  St. Joseph, St. Louis
               , etc. Some were named for civil or military
                    officers; as Carondelet, 
                        Vincennes
                    , etc. Some were so little noted as to be called simply, the "Poste,"
                    or the "Tassement."
            
            The romantic era of the tassements closed in 1763, when the French power in North
                    America was completely overthrown. It had lasted from 1673, when the first two of the four portage
                    waterways between the Great Lakes and the 
                        Mississippi
                     were discovered. Its story, little written, lived in the folklore of the Indians of the
                    West. The funerals, weddings, masses, baptisms, councils, trades, treaty makings, accidents,
                    surprises, reunions, fights, bargains, births, celebrations, etc., connected with every tassement might fill volumes, if they had been recorded. This story is all lost to us in
                    those parts of the country where the chain of tradition was rudely snapped and completely broken off
                    by the sudden removal of the Indians in a body to make room for the white settlers of a new era,
                    early in the last century.
            The very word tassement has dropped out of use in both its French and its English
                    forms. It is not now to be found with the definition of "palisade" in any
                    dictionary or cyclopedia that is in use. It is rarely used in any sense. By an old rule for
                    rendering French words in English phonetic equivalents, the French syllable ment
                    was always written mong in English; and in such words as this, the middle vowel
                    was represented by "i," to make sure that the word would be pronounced in three
                    syllables. Thus the English equivalent of tassement was tassimong. This rule of equivalents has long been eliminated from our best English
                    dictionaries. It was observed that, while bookish people pronounced such words according to the
                    English spelling, those who were guided by the ear and not by the written word said maw (not mong), sometimes giving a very slight nasal sound to the syllable.
                    This indeed was always a test, showing that the sound of the word was acquired orally by those who
                    spoke it thus.
            French scholars and teachers, people of wide reading and culture, will tell you, today, that they
                    never heard or saw the word tassement in all their lives. You may search for it in
                    vain in the modern French lexicons and cyclopedias. It is only in the rare writing of centuries gone
                    that you can find it.
            It so happens that the last of all the "tassimongs" to bear this name is to be
                    found in my native county—the only 
                        Porter county
                     in the world—in Indiana. There is a touch of sentiment in this fact.
                    Students of literature love to see the old word mark lingering in two places on
                    the map of Europe, in the names of 
                         Denmark 
                    
                     and Steiermarck (Styria). Formerly it meant a country, as in
                    the lines:
            This was the dwelling of Volsung, the king of the Midworld's Mark, Like a rose
                    in the winter season, a candle in the dark.
            It was used, slightly varied, in many lauguages, but has strangely dropped out of use.
            Old maps of 
                        Porter county
                    , likewise, are the last in the world to bear the name Tassimong, accidentally varied by
                    the substitution of n for m, and written Tassinong.
            A century ago, when there were no white inhabitants within the limits of our country, old Tassinong
                    was the only locality within those limits that was named as a point to reckon from-. White men were
                    periodically visiting that part of the country, and all of these traders, missionaries, etc., were
                    familiar with the location of the ancient French trading post, which was then only a memory of the
                    Indians.
            The earliest settlers of the country always called it "Tassinaw," much to the
                    amusement of those who were familiar with the English spelling of the name. This fact is a
                    conclusive proof that they acquired the pronunciation by oral transmission, through an unbroken line
                    of generations, from the old historic era of the French tassements, the Indians
                    having handed it down.
            How old is Tassinong? When was the stockade built by the French at this point ?
            La Salle descended the Kankakee river in 1679, and he passed through the land of 
                        Porter county
                     on foot three times within the next two years, following the Old Sac Trail. There were
                    no Indians then living in what is now Indiana. About two hundred years ago the Indians came to what
                    is now northern Indiana, from the north and the northeast. The country north of the Kankakee was
                    very rich in fur-bearing animals, for these had not suffered from the depredations of men, and had
                    become wonderfully numerous, attracting the fur trader, and richly rewarding the Indian hunter
                    and' trapper. Hither the trader came, and erected his rude tassement,
                    which was at once a store, bazaar for the display of trinkets for sale, a temporary dwelling, and a
                    place secure from marauders. It is interesting to note that the earliest meaning of the word tassement was a collection of goods, or articles, as for display or for sale. That
                    it came to mean also a simple stockade or palisade was due, doubtless, to the fact that the French
                    stockades  of this class were of service as trading posts, this
                    being the most important thing to both Indians and traders. Our Tassinong answered to both
                    definitions of the word. Just when this tassement of the French was erected, and
                    just where the stockade stood, nobody seems to know. Probably it was among the earliest in Indiana.
                    It is easy to suppose that its establishment was nearly two centuries ago, or within a
                    quarter-century after La Salle became familiar with this vicinity.
            It is quite natural to suppose that it is as old as 
                        Vincennes
                    , though it was never conspicuous enough to have any name but the "Tassement" among the French. It was not on the line of the Old Sac Trail, though
                    a branch of the trail led down to it. Because of the superior ease of transportation of merchandise,
                        tassements were nearly always located on the banks of rivers. Our Tassinong,
                    however, was situated some distance north of the river, on the upland and away from the swamp, but
                    conveniently near to it. Whether the old stockade was destroyed by the English about 1763, when they
                    took possession of the western country, or whether it was left slowly to disintegrate as an
                    abandoned post, or whether it long remained as a rendezvous for English fur buyers and for the red
                    sellers of furs, is not known. An abandoned stockade does not usually last very long. The logs begin
                    to lean in or out, and finally fall. They offer convenient fuel for the campfires of sojourners, and
                    are serviceable for other purposes. Possibly some light might be thrown on the site of the ancient
                    stockade by a careful study of any relics that were found by pioneers of the vicinity.
            Seventy years ago, old Tassinong was something of a village and trading point for farmers. Gil Pierce
                    grew to manhood in Tassinong, and so did Judge A. D. Bartholomew. Gil Pierce's political
                    career was highly honorable—brilliant, in fact; but he will be remembered chiefly as the
                    man of letters and of society, an ornament to the nation. And if his boyhood home dates back two
                    centuries—as seems likely—his Dickens Dictionary will
                    probably last through twice two centuries more. I could wish that he had busied himself somewhat
                    with the archaeology of old Tassinong. Judge Bartholomew's fine legal mind and forceful
                    character have won for him an enviable place in the ranks of jurists. Perhaps some day he may give
                    reminiscences of a boyhood passed on the site of one of the most ancient posts in Indiana, which
                    alone on the maps of the nation has preserved its ancient name, being in all the world the last of
                    the Tassements.
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notes
            
               Collections of the 
                            Minnesota
                         Historical Society, Volume XV, 
                            St. Paul
                        
               , 1915. 872 pp.
            This volume contains the papers read before the society during the last six years. The first paper is
                    a history of "Railroad Legislation in 
                        Minnesota
                     1849 to 1875", by Rasmus S. Saby. The paper deals at length with the attempt
                    of the Grangers to get control of the railroads, two-thirds of the 188 pages being taken up with
                    this important question. A five-page paper by John H. Randall, entitled "The Beginning of
                    Railroad Building in 
                        Minnesota
                    ," supplements the former paper. William Watts Folwell has a twenty-five page
                    paper on the "Five Million Loan." This also was a scheme developed in 1858 to
                    finance some railroads with the State credit. An elaborate paper of fifty-five pages is devoted to
                    "The Kensington Rune Stone," a mysterious tablet supposed to have been inscribed
                    by the Northmen at least 500 years ago. An article of twenty-seven pages by State Auditor, Samuel G.
                    Iverson, deals with "The Public Lands and the School Fund of 
                        Minnesota
                    ." There are a score or so of other articles, many of them of interest to the
                    whole Northwest. It is an excellent volume both with regard to its material and its general
                    appearance. The papers are of high grade and well edited. The society is to be commended for its
                    good work. The officers of the society, moreover, are a guaranty that the high standard of their
                    volume will be maintained.
            
               THE
                    Jefferson-Lemen Compact is the name of a 58-page pamphlet issued by the University
                    of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, edited by Willard C. MacNaul. The paper is intended to show the relations of
                    Thomas Jefferson and James Lemen to the struggle for the exclusion of slavery from the 
                        Illinois
                     and North-west Territories. The period covered extends from 1781 to 1818.
            James Lemen was a well-known pioneer of 
                        Illinois
                    , his home having been known as Lemen's Fort or the "New
                    Design." He was  a founder of the Baptist Church in 
                        Illinois
                    . His family has taken a prominent part in 
                        Illinois
                     history. Speaking of his sons, January 10, 1820, he said:
            "My six sons are all naturally industrious and they all enjoy the sports. Robert and Josiah
                    excel in fishing, Moses in hunting, William in boating and swimming and James and Joseph in running
                    and jumping. Either of them can jump over a line held at his own height, a little over six
                    feet."
            The pamphlet contains a considerable amount of source material in the form of diaries and
                    correspondence.
            
               THE Studebaker Brothers have just issued a small pamphlet giving the history of
                    this manufacturing industry which began 117 years ago in 
                        York County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Only one, J. M. Studebaker, of the five brothers who founded the wagon factory at 
                        South Bend
                    , now remains.
            
               THE "Indiana Society" of 
                        Chicago
                     has entered the historical field with a new Magazine of History. The booklet describes
                    the society's annual outing which was held this year at the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Battle Ground, June 26. Aside from the humor the booklet contains a reproduction of
                    Robert W. Grafton's painting of the battle, Charles B. Lasselle's sketch map of
                    the battlefield, Winter's picture of the battlefield, and two accounts of the battle, one
                    by Judge Isaac Naylor and the other an address by Alva O. Reser, delivered at the Battlefield, June
                    19, 1904.
            
               COLONEL GIL R. STORMONT delivered the historical address at the
                    unveiling of the Monument to the Ffty-eighth Indiana Regiment at 
                        Princeton
                    , July 5. The address appears in the Clarion-News and in the Democrat.
            Colonel Stormont also continues from time to time his political reminiscences. These appear in the
                        Clarion-News.
            
               THE Extension Division of Indiana University is sending out a Manual
                        of Pageantry, prepared by Dr. Robert Withington, of the English Department. It is a
                    pamphlet of twenty pages setting forth in a brief way the principles of pageantry as practiced at
                    present. Those interested in that form of Centennial Celebration should have this manual. It is sent
                    gratis by the Extension Division.
            
            
               THE address of Governor Samuel M. Ralston, at the 
                        Panama
                    -Pacific Exposition, on Indiana Day, June 26, has been issued in pamphlet form. It is an
                    excellent review of the history, present condition, and prospect of the State. On the last page, the
                    Governor makes a beautiful appeal to all wandering Hoosiers to return home for the celebration next
                    year.
            
               THE
                    Citizen is the name of a monthly magazine which made its first appearance July,
                    1915. It is the organ of the Movement for a New Constitution for Indiana, and is published at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . On its board of editors are Professor Frank T. Stockton, Dr. Amelia Keller, Theodore
                    F. Thieme, Judge W. H. Eichhorn, John R. Jones, Charles Fox, and Charles E. Cox. The first number is
                    excellent and if that standard can be maintained it deserves to live.
            
               MR. W. W. STEVENS, former editor of the 
                        Salem
                    
                    Democrat, has a real story in that paper of July 14. His theme is "The
                    Story of the Common Blue Willow Plate," the chinaware of our ancestors. The story is of
                    Chinese origin and is well told by Mr. Stevens.
            The Democrat has presumably finished its series of articles on the biographies of
                    citizens past their eightieth milestone, and is now running an equally valuable and interesting
                    series on the homes of the citizens.
            
               THE Sullivan Union has been running a series of articles on the
                    history of the townships of Sullivan county. These contain a wonderful amount of historical
                    information which at some future time vfi.ll be even more valuable than at present. Part of this is
                    said to have been prepared by the township high school pupils. Nothing could be more appropriate
                    this year and next than such histories written by every township, town and city school in the State.
                    Such a survey of the State would produce an invaluable collection. Editor Chaney should turn his
                    idea over to the Centennial Commission.
            
               THE
                    
                  
                            Huntingburg
                         Independent, May 8, 1915, contains a commencement address delivered by
                    Ex-superintendent George R. Wilson of Dubois county, at the Cuzco High School. Mr. Wilson devoted
                    most of his address to a history of the Buckingham Base Line which runs through Cuzco. The line
                    follows approximately the 
                        Buffalo
                     Trace which later became the 
                        Vincennes
                     Trace, one of  the first roads of the State. Mr.
                    Wilson strongly urged the citizens of Cuzco to erect a marker at that place to indicate at least to
                    travellers on the railroad that they are crossing the base line. No man in the State takes more
                    pleasure than Mr. Wilson in investigating problems of local history. He is also enthusiastically in
                    favor of proper monuments being erected to commemorate historic Indiana events and places.
            
               THE
                    History Teacher's Magazine for June has a timely article on
                    "Local History in the College Curriculum," by Professor William K. Boyd of Trinity
                    College, Durham, 
                        North Carolina
                    . The eminent success of Trinity College in this work gives Professor Boyd's
                    article great value as a guide in this field.
            
               THE
                    Liberty Express, August 6, 1915, said arrangements were complete for putting up a
                    marker at the birthplace of Joaquin Miller, fourteen miles from 
                        Richmond
                    . The marker will be a huge boulder properly inscribed.
            
               THE Kendallville News-Sun is running a "History of the
                    Regulators of Northern Indiana." The period covered by the articles is that immediately
                    preceding the Civil War. As a contribution to our social history these papers have great value. As
                    is well known a band of criminals terrorized north-eastern Indiana during this period. They were in
                    close proximity to 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Michigan
                    , and not very far from 
                        Canada
                    . Counterfeiting and horse stealing were their chief occupations. They were strong
                    enough to over-awe the law and frequently to control the officers whose duty it was to enforce the
                    law. They were broken up by a band of regulators, organized to enforce the law.
            
               THE
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Medical Journal for July has a biography of Dr. Robert W. Long who died at his
                    home in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , June 18. He is widely known for his gift to the State of the Robert W. Long Hospital.
                    The value of the gift is about $250,000. The biographical article is written by Dr. S. E.
                    Earp.
            
               THE
                    Indiana Alumni Magazine for July continues its history of the University. Dr.
                    James A. Woodburn has taken up the story where Judge Banta dropped it. The current article deals
                    with conditions  in the fifties. A few of the alumni of that
                    period have assisted Dr. Woodburn with their reminiscences. No alumnus of the University can afford
                    to miss these articles.
            
               THE
                    
                  
                            Iowa
                         Journal of History and Politics for July has two articles on the Indians
                    dealing especially with their removals. The first, by Jacob 
                        Van
                     der Zee, is on "The Neutral Ground," the other by the same author is
                    on "The Black Hawk War and the Treaty of 1832." John E. Briggs describes
                    "The Grasshopper Plagues of 
                        Iowa
                    ," and a selection from the autobiography of John Nash, dealing with the early
                    history of Des Moines College, is in the same number.
            
               THE
                    
                        Valparaiso
                    
                    Daily Vidette, July 16, contains a poem by Hubert M. Skinner entitled "
                        Valparaiso
                    's Revolutionary Scenes, 1777, '78, '81." The poem
                    recounts the work of the heroes Brady, Maillet, and Pourre in the capture of Post 
                        St. Joseph
                    . The author rightly calls attention to the neglect of the early history of the northern
                    part of Indiana. If everybody will lend a hand it is possible in the near future to remove this
                    criticism.
            
               THE
                    
                        Michigan
                     Pioneer and Historical Society held its forty-first annual meeting at Lansing, June 2
                    and 3. Besides the usual addresses nine carefully prepared papers were read or handed in for
                    publication. By this means the society every year harvests practically all the papers of value on
                    historical topics prepared in the State. These papers are edited and published. The society now has
                    thirty-eight large volumes of such collections.
            
               THE
                    
                  
                            Missouri
                         Historical Review of July contains a short biographical account of William
                    Rockhill Nelson who died at his home in 
                        Kansas City
                    , April 30. Mr. Nelson was born in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , March 7, 1841. Before founding the Star at 
                        Kansas City
                     he had learned the newspaper business as editor of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    Sentinel. The Review ranked him with Joseph Pulitzer, Carl
                    Schurz, and Walter Williams as among the most distinguished newspaper men of 
                        Missouri
                    . He was a trustee of the 
                        Missouri
                     State Historical Society.
         
         
         
            Minor Notices
            
               FELIX T. MCWHIRTER
            
            Mr. McWhirter was born in Lynchburg, 
                        Tennessee
                    , July 17, 1853. In 1873 he graduated from East 
                        Tennessee
                     Wesleyan University, taking a master's degree three years later. For a few
                    years he edited the 
                        Athens
                     (Tenn.) News, serving as mayor of that city in 1877. Following 1887,
                    for a number of years he taught rhetoric and English literature at Depauw University. About 1890 he
                    came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and engaged in the real estate business. In 1900 he organized the Peoples'
                    Bank, over which he presided until his death June 5, 1915, at the age of 62. Besides his interest in
                    education and especially in literature he took an active interest in politics. Perhaps he is better
                    known in connection with the Prohibition party than any other man in the State. He was one of its
                    ablest supporters, and in 1904 was its candidate for governor. He was active in locating the Long
                    Hospital, was a prominent member of the Central Avenue Methodist Church, of the Chamber of Commerce,
                    and a 
                        Mason
                    .
            
                    THE PIGEON ROOST MASSACRE
                
            A mistake concerning the names of the victims of the above has crept into the printed accounts. The
                    names in the Readings in Indiana History, page 129, were taken from Dillon. A
                    little care would have partially corrected the error. In the account by Isaac Naylor the name
                    "Ellis" Payne is given instead of "Elias" Payne.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA, May 2, 1915.
                        
                                    Gentlemen—I have been informed of an error in a book written by you
                                        lately, I think, concerning the history of the State. My home is in 
                                            Salem
                                        , and not being there at this time, can not give all particulars,
                                        but perhaps enough for you to find It. The mistake was in regard to Pigeon Roost
                                        Massacre, 1812, saying Jeremiah Payne and family were among the victims there at
                                        that time, which should have read thus: Blias Payne and family, who was a
                                        brother of Jeremiah Payne.
                                    I am a granddaughter of the last named and remember him quite well; besides have
                                        known his children, my mother's brothers and sisters and their children
                                        also. If you have the story of Pigeon Roost Massacre, written in  the year when the monument was made and dedicated,
                                        you can there see how it is; as the same mistake was being made then when I
                                        stated this same error to Captain Fortune Jeffersonville and it was corrected.
                                        Hoping this may be of some help to you in your work, as well as to myself, I
                                        shall feel grateful to you in future as may be you can change and rearrange
                                        correctly.
                                
                        Yours truly, MRS. A. R. OVERMAN.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    THE MARECHAL 
                            NEY
                        TRADITION.
                
            The following letter from Reverend Jansen is a valuable contribution toward a settlement of the
                    "Ney Tradition" and is here published as written:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              ST. BONIFACE, MINNESOTA, May 14, 1915.
                                    Dear Sir—In answer to your kind letter received this morning, I beg to
                                        make the following statement:
                                    In 1888, as Catholic pastor in 
                                            Henderson
                                        , 
                                            Sibley county
                                        , 
                                            Minnesota
                                        , I made the acquaintance there of the old Doctor of Medicine,
                                        Seigneuret Francais de la 
                                            France
                                        . On the accession of Louis Napoleon either as president in 1848 or
                                        as emperor in 1852 (I forget which) several revolution makers had to fly from 
                                            France
                                         to escape guillotine or imprisonment. Victor Hugo, Louis Blanc, the
                                        Bijous, and the Seigneurs, etc. The Seig-neurets went to the English island of
                                        Jersey, the bishops to 
                                            Switzerland
                                         (I have an old daguerotype of Victor Hugo against the Jersey
                                        rocks). Leaving out the history of those families, I may confine myself to the
                                        Ney business.
                                    When there appeared in the paper (probably at that time the St. Paul Globe) an article about the Ney Traditions in connection with a party
                                        found out in, I believe, 
                                            Virginia
                                        , I spoke about it to Dr. Seigneur, etc. The doctor had studied in 
                                            Paris
                                        , 
                                            France
                                        , and graduated there in 1845. His mother was working, as matron or
                                        nurse, or in some other capacity at the Hospital de la Maternite in 
                                            Paris
                                        , and from a window in the hospital saw the whole of the shooting of
                                        Marechal Ney (whom she knew very well, anyhow by sight) against the blind wall
                                        of a house or a garden nearby.
                                    I say knew Ney, but if I recollect well, she was personally acquainted with him.
                                        Of course, at that time I did not pay so much attention to the statement, but
                                        only in as far as it was a general refutation of the newspaper report. (Maybe I
                                        have still the latter in my scrap books, which are not here.)
                                    I helped to bury Dr. Seigneuret years ago in 
                                            Henderson
                                         where he lived to the age of about ninety. His only son died in the
                                        Island of Jersey, pretty well helpless and aliene in his last
                                        months. Of the Bijous there are still several alive.
                                    I ask: "French or English"—presuming that you are
                                        French or of French descent. I thought of the name of General Isabey, (of
                                        Napoleon I's time).
                                    
                                    Hoping this little may be of some interest, if not of value, and willing to give
                                        any information, I can, I beg to remain,
                                
                        Yours truly, (Signed) W. B. G. JANSEN, Pr.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    THE LINCOLN WAY
                
            The interest developed by this investigation has brought out some valuable articles reminiscent of
                    the Lincolns. The best of these have appeared in the 
                        Petersburg
                    
                    Press, the 
                        Huntingburg
                    
                    Independent, and the Boonville Standard. The Press has evidence that the 
                        Lincoln
                     Way lay through 
                        Petersburg
                    , while the Independent published a very able article by George R.
                    Wilson setting forth the evidence that the Lincolns passed through 
                        Jasper
                    . The Standard, through its correspondent, Mr. Baker, has published
                    the evidence showing that they passed through Boonville. The papers possess great interest for the
                    local historian. All of it should be published after the commission has made its decision.
         
      
      
         
      
   
