
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 83, Issue 3, pages 217-299. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:83+issue:3+year:1987&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Claude G. Bowers: A Partisan Hoosier
            
                    
                        Sabine Jessner and Peter J. Sehlinger
                        ∗
                    
                
            Traditionally biographers are fond of identifying their subjects according to professions or
                    positions held, describing them as politicians, generals, presidents, theologians, or the like. It
                    would be misleading, however, to try to understand Claude G. Bowers by classifying him either as a
                    celebrated journalist, the author of several well-received historical works, an influential
                    political aide, a 
                        United States
                     ambassador for two decades, or a speech writer for the Democratic party for half a
                    century. Indeed, Bowers served in each of these capacities, but he should be remembered above all as
                    a fervent partisan of liberal democracy. Before reaching adulthood this democrat became a confirmed
                    Democrat, convinced that the Democratic party represented the forces of economic and social justice
                    in the 
                        United States
                    . Bowers's many professional endeavors were not ends in themselves; instead,
                    they offered this partisan Hoosier diverse forums that he used to expound his liberal political
                    creed and to promote the Democracy.
            Lewis and Juliet Tipton Bowers lived in the 
                        Hamilton County
                     village of 
                        Westfield
                    , Indiana, in 1878 when their son Claude Gernade was born on November 20.1 A few weeks
                    later the family moved to Jolietville, near the 
                        Boone County
                     line, where Lewis ran a store. Soon the three Bowerses settled in Whitestown where
                    Claude spent most of his early childhood. There in 
                        Boone County
                    , some twenty miles north of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Lewis was a merchant, but his father, Christian, a 
                        German
                     immigrant, owned a farm 
                  
                     ∗ Sabine Jessner and Peter J. Sehlinger are members of the
                            Department of History, Indiana University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     1 For biographical material on Bowers, see Claude G. Bowers, My Life: The Memoirs of Claude Bowers (
                                New York
                            , 1962); Claude G. Bowers, "The Reminiscences of Claude
                            Bowers," interview by Louis Starr, August 24, 30, 1954 (
                                Columbia
                             University Oral History Research Office, 
                                New York City
                            ); and "Introduction" in Holman 
                                Hamilton
                             and Gayle Thornbrough, eds., 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 in the "Guy Nineties": The High School Diaries of Claude
                                G. Bowers (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1964), 1-14.
               
                     nearby that he had carved out of the virgin timbered terrain.
                    The Bowers family were all staunch Democrats, and Lewis favored Winfield Scott 
                        Hancock
                     in 
                        Hancock
                    's 1880 presidential campaign against James A. Garfield. When some Republican
                    friends teased Lewis's son by cheering for Garfield, the two-year-old reputedly blurted
                    out, "Naw, naw, rah for 
                        Hancock
                    ."2 Certainly Bowers was correct in recalling later,
                    "My politics came early and I have been a partisan ever since."3
            
            School, the stories of Civil War veterans, sermons, political speeches, and reading offered Claude
                    more than a rudimentary education in Whitestown. Contemporaries recognized oratory as an edifying
                    art that provided them with opportunities for both entertainment and social gatherings. Claude
                    eagerly attended the meetings of the local debating society directed by the Lutheran minister and
                    the schoolmaster. Political rallies and the county fair in 
                        Lebanon
                     eight miles away also attracted the denizens of 
                        Boone County
                     in the summer and the autumn. Once, after hearing Democratic Senator Daniel W. Voorhees
                    lash out at his opponents, Claude was presented to the solon, who laid his hand on the
                    lad's head. Bowers later remembered this and remarked, "I felt I had been
                        anointed."4 So partisan was the nine-year-old Claude that he was
                    almost frightened to death when he heard a Radical Republican warn his audience: "In 
                        Michigan
                     where it's cold, they're almost all Republicans; in Indiana where
                    it's a little warmer, there are a few more Democrats; in 
                        Kentucky
                     where it's still warmer, there are more Democrats; in 
                        Mississippi
                     where it's very warm, they're almost all Democrats; and in Hell,
                    which is hot, they're all Democrats."5
            
            Claude's years in Whitestown left a lifelong legacy of pleasant memories that helped shape
                    his confidence in the innate intelligence and capacities of the common man. Tinkling sleigh bells,
                    heated political debates, county fairs, childish pranks, and the accurate aim of tobacco chewers
                    toward ever-present cuspidors were but some of Bowers's 
                        Boone County
                     recollections. More important were the attitudes he took with him from his hometown. He
                    later asserted, "I think I learned more of the American mind from the villagers of
                    Whitestown than I ever learned afterwards."6 Forged in rural Indiana,
                    his lifelong respect for the dignity of hard work and the opinions and sentiments of the people
                    would remain with him as he climbed the ladder of political importance and experienced the
                    sophistication of cosmopolitan and diplomatic life.
            Following his father's death from a fall, Claude and his mother moved to 
                        Lebanon
                     where she worked as a milliner for more than a 
                  
                     2 Bowers, My Life, 1-2.
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 2.
                  
                     4
                            lbid., 8.
                  
                     5
                            lbid., 10.
                  
                     6 Bowers, "Reminiscences," 2.
               
                     year. Then in 1891 they went to 
                        Indianapolis
                     where Mrs. Bowers established a dressmaking shop in her home on North 
                        Alabama
                     Street. During the last decade of the century the Hoosier capital was a prosperous but
                    unsophisticated metropolis that grew from 128,000 to 170,000 souls. The first electric streetcar ran
                    up muddy, unpaved 
                        Massachusetts
                     Avenue from the downtown business district; several railroads made the city an
                    important regional center; and business enterprises were attracting a steady stream of rural and
                    immigrant laborers. Meat-packing, ironworks, lumberyards, breweries, brickworks, and commerce were
                    some of the diverse sources of employment. The tall Soldiers' and Sailors'
                    Monument on the Circle was nearing completion, and the chairman of the Monument Commission, the
                    father of one of Claude's friends, al-lowed the adventuresome boy to climb the off-limits
                    shaft to survey his new home.7
            
            For the small-town youth 
                        Indianapolis
                     offered numerous opportunities for personal development.8 Claude
                    regularly frequented the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public Library, first at the corner of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     streets and later at 
                        Meridian
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    . There he spent more than two hours a day reading biographies of American, Irish, and
                    British statesmen, particularly those of orators such as John C. Calhoun, John Philpot Curran, and
                    William Gladstone. On Sun-days Claude attended churches of various denominations in order to listen
                    to the long but carefully worded sermons. He watched the "Divine Sarah" Bernhardt
                    and other visiting performers at English's Opera House on the Circle. At Tomlinson Hall at 
                        Delaware
                     and Market streets Bowers attended virtually every political meeting and listened to
                    the speeches of both parties' candidates. How-ever, the faculty at 
                        Indianapolis
                     High School, subsequently called Shortridge High, exercised the greatest influence on
                    his intellectual growth as a teenager. He particularly enjoyed classes in civil government and
                    politics. Bowers was president of the school's Senate, an organization for students modeled
                    after the chamber in 
                        Washington
                    , and he also was elected to head the school's debate team.
            For a short while Claude was a Republican in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . His removal from the paternal Democratic precincts of Whitestown played a role in this
                    change of allegiance, but the strong Republican zeal of his maternal relatives certainly contributed
                    as well. Originally a Whig, Claude's grandfather, James Tipton, had become 
                  
                     7 For a thorough description of 
                                Indianapolis
                             in the 1890s see Jacob Piatt Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                : The History, the Industries, the Institutions, and the People of a City of
                                Homes (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1910), I.
                  
                     8 See Chapter II, "The Golden Age in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," in Bowers, My Life, 13-16; and 
                                Hamilton
                             and Thornbrough, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 in the "Gay Nineties," for Bowers's life
                            during these years.
               
                     a Republican after that party was organized prior to the Civil
                    War. Later killed at the Battle of Missionary Ridge in 1863, Tipton had greatly admired Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    . In high school Claude was a member of the executive committee of the 
                        Lincoln
                     League, and in the presidential campaign of 1892 he supported Benjamin Harrison of 
                        Indianapolis
                     in his unsuccessful bid for reelection.
            Bowers's Republicanism proved of short duration. In the epic encounter of 1896 between
                    William McKinley and William Jennings Bryan, the Hoosier youth sided with the Democrats. Of the
                    Republican platform, Bowers opined: "There is one bad feature about the thing. It was
                    written by the upper class. It was formulated in Wall street. Now has the interest of Wall St ever
                    been know[n] to coincide with the interests of the masses?"9 Of the
                    Re-publican standard-bearer, McKinley, Claude wrote, for his "abilities I have little
                        respect";10 however, it was Bryan's advocacy of an
                    economic policy in favor of the common man that won Claude for the Democracy. Bowers agreed that the
                    Republican party's untiring efforts to keep prices high through protective tariffs and by
                    vigorous adherence to the gold standard were, in fact, tantamount to crucifying the citizenry on a
                    "Cross of Gold." After hearing Bryan in person in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Bowers was so impressed with the Democratic orator that "from that hour I
                    thought in terms of politics."11
            
            Bowers found the model for his political ideals in Thomas Jefferson. As president of the high school
                    debate team, Claude chose to defend Alexander 
                        Hamilton
                    's influence on the early American republic at the state oratorical contest in
                    1898. When the Hoosier youth researched his subject, he found 
                        Hamilton
                    's ideas "obnoxious."12 Bowers saw 
                        Hamilton
                     as the proponent of an aristocratic-dominated political system and Jefferson as the
                    spokesman for a democratic America. Because it was too late to change his topic, Bowers focused his
                    oration on 
                        Hamilton
                    's role in securing the ratification of the Constitution—something
                    he could sincerely admire—and earned first place at the contest. Thereafter, however,
                    Claude for life identified himself as a "Jeffersonian Democrat," by which he meant
                    a proponent of government by all of the people in the interests of the majority of the people.
            College was not in Bowers's future. Only the sacrifices of his mother and the frugality of
                    both had allowed him to complete high school. Instead, Bowers found a temporary job in 1898 with a
                    publisher in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the future Bobbs-Merrill Company. He continued his active interest in politics and
                    made his first appearance on the stump in 1900, appropriately in Whitestown. Throughout 
                  
                     9
                            
                                Hamilton
                             and Thornbrough, 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 in the "Gay Nineties," 60.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 57.
                  
                     11 Bowers, My Life, 44.
                  
                     12 Bowers, "Reminiscences," 7.
               
                    
                    
                  CLAUDE G. BOWERS AT THE INDIANA STATE HIGH SCHOOL ORATORICAL CONTEST, OPERA HOUSE, RICHMOND, INDIANA, MARCH 25, 1898
                  Reproduced from the 
                                Indianapolis
                             High School Album (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1898), 58; courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  INDIANAPOLIS HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATING CLASS OF 1898 CLAUDE G.
                                BOWERS, SEATED, FOURTH FROM
                                LEFT, FRONT ROW
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     the summer and autumn of that year Bowers defended the
                    Democratic candidate, Bryan, as the spokesman of the common man and attacked President
                    McKinley's annexation of 
                        Puerto Rico
                     and the 
                        Philippines
                     as "a repudiation of everything America stood for."13 Soon Bowers was dubbed the "Gatling-Gun Orator of the 
                        Wabash
                    ." At a state party gathering in 
                        Lebanon
                     future Democratic Governor Samuel M. Ralston was very impressed by the young speaker,
                    who was barely old enough to vote. Although Bowers was four years under the requisite age to serve
                    in Congress, Ralston jokingly pro-posed him as a congressional candidate. The partisan orator also
                    found time to contribute two pieces to the Jeffersonian Democrat, a publication of
                    the national party. Indiana's future Democratic Senator John Worth Kern read these articles
                    and described them as "crackerjacks."14
            
            In his twenty-first year Bowers began his long career as a journalist. In 1900 he became the major
                    editorial writer for the Sentinel,
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    's Democratic daily. Three years later he went to 
                        Terre Haute
                     where he wrote for the Gazette and the Star. His
                    editorials revealed his adherence to the goals of the progressive movement, the proponents of which
                    were well represented in both major parties. These reformers confidently believed that active
                    participation by the people in the political system would make government serve the interests of the
                    majority of the citizenry instead of the special concerns of those of great wealth.
                    Bowers's editorials urged the adoption of primary elections to make politicians more
                    responsive to public opinion, and his every published piece reflected his strong belief that
                    "the people are the great source of power."15 An outspoken
                    advocate of public education, he attacked efforts of the state legislature to cut school support and
                    noted that "the vast majority of the poor are unable to attend the higher institutions of
                        learning."16
            
            In 
                        Terre Haute
                     Bowers also served the city administration by composing proclamations and speeches for
                    the mayor as well as working for the Board of Public Works. His municipal job was so plainly
                    political that his friends joked that the only public-works function he fulfilled was to jump up and
                    down with all of his 109 pounds on the newly brick-paved streets before perfunctorily declaring them
                    well constructed.17
            
            By 1904 when Bowers ran for elective office for the first time, he was an outspoken champion of
                    liberal democracy. His self-identification as a "Jeffersonian Democrat" in high
                    school and his 
                  
                     13
                            lbid., 16.
                  
                     14 Quoted in Bowers, My Life, 40.
                  
                     15
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, November 9, 1905.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., June 17, 1905.
                  
                     17 Bowers, "Reminiscences," 21.
               
                     youthful enthusiasm for Bryan's candidacy in 1896 led
                    him into the progressive movement. He did not abandon his liberal tenets during the conservative
                    1920s, and he was a fervent supporter of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal. For Bowers,
                    liberal democracy meant an active government that would ensure the rights of the majority against
                    the influence of a wealthy oligarchy represented in his eyes by the magnates of banking and
                    industry. Although a severe critic of Wall Street, the Hoosier Democrat believed in capitalism. He
                    insisted, however, that this system must be controlled by the state in the interest of the
                    citizenry. Inherent in Bowers's faith in liberal democracy was his trust in the
                    people's ability to guarantee their rights through the electoral process.
            At least in part because of Bowers's party ties and his oratory the Democrats made him their
                    congressional nominee in 1904 and 1906 for the usually Republican 
                        Terre Haute
                     district. In his candidacy he stressed the ideas so dear to the essentially
                    middle-class Republican and Democratic reformers who made up the progressive movement. He championed
                    the expansion of democracy through women's suffrage and the direct election of senators and
                    promised to regulate monopolies and to outlaw giant trusts such as Standard Oil. As expected, Bowers
                    was soundly defeated in 1904, the year of Republican Theodore Roosevelt's landslide
                    presidential victory.18 In his active 1906 campaign the Democratic journalist
                    once again vowed to fight "to control and regulate the great financial interests of the
                        nation."19 He managed to attract Republican voters by lauding the
                    progressive reforms achieved by President Roosevelt and noting, "If I had been a member of
                    congress during the last two years, I would have supported all the reform measures of the president
                    … because they were patriotic American measures."20 After a
                    very close contest the election officials declared Bowers the loser by eight hundred votes, but the
                    Democratic candidate never agreed with this verdict. "I was elected and counted
                    out—no question about that.…"21 Despite his
                    political disappointments he campaigned throughout Indiana for the Democratic national ticket of
                    Bryan and Kern in 1908 and again two years later for Kern's successful election as senator.
            Called to 
                        Washington
                     in 1911 as secretary for the new Hoosier solon, Bowers worked as Kern's
                    trusted aide for six years.22 A progressive Democrat, the senator was an
                    outspoken champion of the 
                  
                     18 For Bowers's views in this campaign see the 
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, September 13, 22, 25, 1904; and the 
                                Rockville
                            
                            Tribune, October 5, 1904.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Star, November 4, 1906.
                  
                            20
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     21 Bowers, "Reminiscences," 20.
                  
                     22 For Bowers's activities in 
                                Washington
                             in these years see Claude G. Bowers, The Life of John Worth
                            Kern (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1918).
               
                     right of workers to unionize and of government regulation of
                    big business. When the mineowners in West 
                        Virginia
                     hired thugs to terrorize miners striking for higher wages, Kern led an investigation of
                    these excesses, even inviting eighty-one-year-old Mother Jones, a leader of the striking workers, to 
                        Washington
                    . Kern's success in calling the nation's attention to the deplorable
                    working conditions of the coal miners marked, according to Bowers, "the first clear-cut
                    victory ever won in the Senate by labor."23 Bowers firmly believed in
                    moderate political solutions that would avoid conservative government by the elite as well as
                    revolution by the masses. "Between the Republican party flying the black flag of legalized
                    piracy," he declared in 1913, "and the Socialist party with the red flag of
                    revolution, the Democratic party proposes to lead the people back to the days of equal
                        opportunity.…"24
            
            With the election of Democratic President Woodrow Wilson in 1912, Kern was the
                    administration's floor leader in the Senate.25 He became the first
                    party whip in the upper chamber, a post later occupied by such men as Alben W. Barkley and Lyndon B.
                    John-son. Because of Kern's responsibilities in marshaling support for Wilson's
                    progressive reforms, Bowers undertook many of the tasks that senators normally handled
                    themselves—overseeing the office, tending to liaison duties with the public and
                    politicians back home, and on occasion taking care of speaking engagements. In addition to his
                    duties as Senator Kern's secretary, Bowers regularly contributed editorials to the 
                        Terre Haute
                    
                    Star. Kern's defeat for reelection in 1916 sent Bowers home to Indiana
                    where he accepted an editorial post with the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    Journal-Gazette the following year.
            By 1917 Bowers had been married for six years. His wife, Sybil McCaslin, had been an 
                        Indianapolis
                     schoolteacher whose family owned a large farm on the west side of the city. Although
                    she regularly attended social functions with her husband throughout his public career, Sybil was an
                    unassuming, loyal mate who preferred to stay behind the scenes. Perhaps a bit shy, she occasionally
                    suffered an attack of nerves when the press of official duties seemed to crowd in on their private
                    lives. Claude and Sybil had one daughter, Patricia, who later was graduated from Sarah Lawrence
                    College.
            
               
                  23 Bowers, My Life, 78.
               
                  24 Claude G. Bowers, The Democracy of Woodrow Wilson (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., n.d.), 7. This address, given in 
                            Boston
                        , June 16, 1913, and published in pamphlet form, can be found in Claude G. Bowers
                        Papers III (Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        ).
               
                  25 For Kern's senate career see Peter J. Sehlinger,
                        "John W. Kern: A Hoosier Progressive," in Ralph D. Gray, ed., Gentlemen from Indiana: National Party Candidates, 1836–1940 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1977), 191-217; and Virginia F. Haughton, "John Worth Kern and
                        Wilson's New Freedom" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, University
                        of 
                     Kentucky, Lexington
                  , 1973).
            
            
            Bowers was almost forty years old when he arrived in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     with his wife and young daughter. His slight stature certainly belied his future
                    importance, but acquaintances were immediately impressed by his seriousness of purpose and his
                    historical and political knowledge. Bowers's rather sunken, doleful eyes and prominent ears
                    likewise endowed him with no special aura of respectability. However, his general demeanor did offer
                    intimations of a man of forthright opinions who favored an informal, middle-class life-style.
                    Particularly later, when as an ambassador he was forced to dress in formal garb, his obviously
                    awkward countenance conformed more to the world's notion of a small-town Hoosier than to
                    that of a sophisticated, upper-class diplomat.
            Bowers had added another dimension to his public life by 1917. Just as his political convictions had
                    taken him into journalism and to 
                        Washington
                    , they likewise found expression in his historical writings.26 While
                    working for Senator Kern in 1916, Bowers published his first book, The Irish
                    Orators. In this study the author displayed his deep respect for formal political discourse by
                    eulogizing the Hibernian statesmen he had first encountered in his afternoons of reading in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public Library. In 1918 Bowers wrote The Life of John Worth Kern, a
                    laudatory biography that emphasized the importance of his former employer in passing President
                    Wilson's New Freedom legislation.27 During the next fourteen years
                    Bowers would contribute other well-received works that reached a large national audience. For him
                    history served as a lesson for those interested in current political issues. In The
                        Party Battles of the Jackson Period (1922) he argued that "the election of Jackson
                    was due to the rising of the masses" and vigorously defended the democratic policies of the
                    seventh president of the 
                        United States
                    .28 In his most popular work, Jefferson and
                    Hamilton (1925), a volume that has gone through twenty-seven printings and is translated into
                    several languages, the journalist-historian castigated 
                        Hamilton
                     for favoring "the rule of ‘gentlemen’—the
                    domination of aristocrats …," while lauding the Virginian for taking
                    "upon himself the organization of the forces of democracy.…"29 Bowers claimed that "from the time of the Civil War on down
                    practically every book written about Jefferson had attempted to damn him if only with faint praise.
                    That wasn't so strange, after all. It 
                  
                     26 For an evaluation of Bowers as a historian see Oliver Knight,
                            "Claude G. Bowers, Historian," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, LII (September, 1956), 247-68.
                  
                     27 For a critical review of this work see George C. Roberts,
                            "Claude G. Bowers: Hoosier Historian and the Politics of Yesterday, Today, and
                            Tomorrow," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of the Social
                            Sciences, XVII (1982), 61-69.
                  
                     28 Claude G. Bowers, The Party Battles of the Jackson
                                Period (
                                Boston
                            , 1922), 65.
                  
                     29 Claude G. Bowers, Jefferson and Hamilton: The Struggle
                                for Democracy in America (
                                Boston
                            , 1925), 29, 115.
               
                     was political. The old Hamiltonian group was in power, and the
                    writers of history didn't have the guts to combat it."30
            
            In The Tragic Era: The Revolution After 
                            Lincoln
                        
                (1929) the Hoosier Democrat blamed the Radical Republicans for humiliating the
                    defeated white southerners following the Civil War. The author later admitted that his thesis
                    reflected his boyhood notions of the Republicans' Reconstruction policies, but Bowers
                    buttressed his conclusions by consulting boxes of diaries and letters supplied him by the United
                    Daughters of the Confederacy.31 As later historians have observed, certainly one
                    of Bowers's purposes in writing The Tragic Era was a partisan political
                    consideration. In 1928 Republican Herbert Hoover proved to be the first strong presidential
                    candidate of his party in the South, so Bowers realized that his book would serve to remind southern
                    Democrats in 1929 of the Republicans' Reconstruction measures.32
                    Despite the political focus of his writings he later published a praise-laden biography about an
                    Indiana Republican, Beveridge and the Progressive Era (1932). Like Kern, Senator
                    Beveridge was an effective advocate of progressive political reform and a friend of the author.
            Bowers's historical works originally met with critical acclaim, but today his reputation as
                    a historian is tarnished. In 1926 Samuel F. Bemis, later president of the American Historical
                    Association, reviewed Bowers's Jefferson and Hamilton and wrote,
                    "The author of the Party Battles of the Jackson Period has done even a
                    better thing with the party battles of the Jefferson and Hamilton period." Bemis lauded
                    Bowers's research and noted that the work served "as a good antidote to the
                    several recent studies extolling the marvels of Federalism and glorifying too exclusively the genius
                    of 
                        Hamilton
                    ."33 Likewise, Charles R. Lingley praised The
                        Tragic Era in the American Historical Review and asserted, "With
                    … [Bowers's] conclusion, all judicially minded will have to agree."34 However, more recent historians have reinterpreted Jefferson's
                    contributions and Reconstruction, and their conclusions differ from those of Bowers. Dumas Malone,
                    the outstanding mod-em Jefferson scholar, maintains that the label "Jeffersonian"
                    should not be used to describe twentieth-century politicians, and he care-fully reminds the readers
                    of his six-volume Jefferson and His Time
                    
                  
                     30 Bowers, "Reminiscences," 61.
                  
                     31 Holman Hamilton, "Before ‘The Tragic
                            Era’: Claude Bowers's Earlier Attitudes Toward Reconstruction,"
                                Mid-America, LV (October, 1973), 235-44.
                  
                     32 David E. Kyvig, "History as Present Politics: Claude
                            Bowers' The Tragic Era," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            LXXIII (March, 1977), 17.
                  
                     33 Samuel Flagg Bemis, review of Jefferson and Hamilton:
                                The Struggle for Democracy in America, by Claude G. Bowers, American
                                Historical Review, XXXI (April, 1926), 544, 545.
                  
                     34 Charles R. Lingley, review of The Tragic Era: The
                                Revolution After 
                                    Lincoln
                                , by Claude G. Bowers, American Historical Review,
                            XXXV (January, 1930), 383.
               
                     (1948–1981) that "in these pages he
                    [Jefferson] has been viewed in his own time and circumstances."35
                    Writing of the post-Civil War period, a leading contemporary historian, Kenneth M. Stampp, singles
                    out for attack Bowers's conclusions in The Tragic Era and argues that the
                    policies of the Radical Republicans are worthy of praise because they reflected their commitment to
                    guaranteeing the new rights of the former slaves. Stampp charges that Bowers viewed blacks as
                    "ignorant, barbarous, sensual Negroes who threatened to Africanize the South and destroy
                    its Caucasian civilization."36 Indeed, Bowers's advocacy of
                    liberal democracy did not lead him to champion the cause of black Americans in his historical works
                    or in politics. Like so many of his liberal and conservative contemporaries in the 1920s, the
                    Hoosier author was not sympathetic to the plight of the freedmen and depicted them in pejorative
                    terms. For example, in The Tragic Era Bowers referred to their "bizarre
                    notions of labor," "indulgence in sexual promiscuity," and
                    "indolence," and he noted that many black troops in the postwar South
                    "were children, acting as children would under the circumstances."37
            
            Recent historical criticism of Bowers's works cannot detract from their immense popularity.
                    Scholars agree that Jefferson and Hamilton probably has been read by more
                    Americans "than any other single volume on Jefferson or on the formative era of American
                    politics" and that The Tragic Era "has attracted more readers
                    than any other dealing with the period."38 In his historical studies
                    Bowers affirmed that he sought "to re-create as nearly as I could the atmosphere
                    … of the time, the reaction of the people to what was going on."39 The author's success in accomplishing this goal accounted in large measure for
                    the appeal of his books, which in turn brought him welcome, if not vast, royalties.
            For six years in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Bowers contributed two columns of editorials daily and a page of book reviews each
                    Sunday for the Journal-Gazette. Predictably, he vigorously opposed the 1920
                    Re-publican presidential nominee, Warren G. Harding, and called him "the most reactionary
                    tool of the special interests who has ever been named for the presidency.…"40 Bowers used his pen to lam-baste the Harding presidency for favoring
                    big-business interests 
                  
                     35 Dumas Malone, Jefferson and His Time, Vol. VI:
                                The Sage of 
                                    Monticello
                                
                      (
                                Boston
                            , 1981), 499.
                  
                     36 Kenneth M. Stampp, The Era of Reconstruction (
                                New York
                            , 1965), 4-5. Quotation is located on p. 5.
                  
                     37 Claude G. Bowers, The Tragic Era: The Revolution After 
                                    Lincoln
                                
                      (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1929), 48, 49, 51, 52.
                  
                     38 Merrill D. Peterson, The Jeffersonian Image in the
                                American Mind (
                                New York
                            , 1962), 347; Stampp, Era of Reconstruction, 4.
                  
                     39 Bowers, "Reminiscences," 65.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Journal-Gazette, October 6, 1920.
               
                     instead of those of the average citizen and warned,
                    "Radicalism has flowered from the dung heap of reactionary policies."41 In addition to editorial duties for the Journal-Gazette, a
                    leading Democratic newspaper, Bowers continued to speak throughout Indiana at political rallies. In
                    1922 he was urged by friends to run for the 
                        United States
                     Senate, but his party's nod went to his friend Samuel Ralston who defeated
                    former Senator Beveridge that year.
            Bowers's strident Democratic editorials brought him to the attention of the staff of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Evening World, and in 1923 he accepted an editorial post with this daily. When the
                        Evening World ceased publishing in 1931, William Randolph Hearst offered the
                    transplanted Hoosier an editorial position at the 
                        New York
                    
                    Evening Journal. For two years Bowers's columns were carried coast to
                    coast by papers in the Hearst chain.
            In 
                        New York
                     as in Indiana, Bowers continued to aim his editorial fire at the conservative
                    Republicans in control of government in 
                        Washington
                    , claiming that the administration of President Cal-vin Coolidge was in fact
                    "the tacit tool of Privilege.…"42 In an editorial
                    titled "Working for the Reds," Bowers asserted, "The hard-headed business
                    man, even though he has read no history must know that the continuance of the policies that have
                    created the unrest and awakened the radical sentiment will but accentuate the evil and hasten the
                    day of reckoning."43
            
            In 
                        New York
                     Bowers also became a close friend of Theodore Dreiser, a 
                        Terre Haute
                     native, whom the newspaperman considered "one of the most heroic and
                    significant figures in our literary history."44 Though Bowers did not
                    agree with the realistic novelist's sympathy for socialism, both writers respected each
                    other's distrust of big business and shared a common concern for the poor.
            Bowers's partisan political stands immediately involved him in the activities of the
                    Democratic party in 
                        New York
                    . In 1926 he wrote innumerable political speeches for his new friend Robert F. Wagner
                    and was given credit by the New Yorker as the force responsible for his election to the 
                        United States
                     Senate. Wagner be-came a New Deal stalwart and remained an influential political ally
                    of Bowers. In one speech for Wagner the Hoosier journalist included the admonition "Beware
                    of Greeks bearing gifts," which the ethnically conscious 
                        New York
                     candidate immediate struck from the- text to avoid offending the Greek-American voters.
                    Bowers later recalled this political mistake and remarked, "Then I knew I was in 
                        New York
                    ."45 The Democratic journalist also was a friend of 
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., November 14, 1922.
                  
                     42
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Evening World, October 3, 1924.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., October 21, 1924.
                  
                     44 Bowers, My Life, 172.
                  
                     45 Bowers, "Reminiscences," 60.
               
                     Alfred E. Smith and was the keynote speaker at the 1928
                    Democratic convention that nominated the "Happy Warrior" for the presidency.
                    Bowers entertained his audience with a bitter attack on the Harding-Coolidge years. He charged that
                    "privilege and pillage are the Gold Dust twins of normalcy" and argued that
                    "under the rule of this regime the average man has no more stake in the government for
                    which he may be called upon to die than if he had never touched our soil."46
            
            Like many other progressives Bowers did not embrace a concern for civil rights for blacks, but he was
                    a bitter foe of religious bigotry in the 1920s. His first work, The Irish Orators,
                    praised the efforts of Roman Catholic patriots in 
                        Ireland
                     who sought independence from Britain, and James Cardinal Gibbons of 
                        Baltimore
                     contributed the introduction to this volume. Bowers opposed the Ku Klux Klan and noted
                    with disapproval that by 1922 its members "fairly swarmed in Indiana from the river to the
                        lake."47 He was particularly distressed at the religious fanaticism
                    displayed in the 1928 presidential campaign against Al Smith, a Roman Catholic. Later, in his
                    autobiography, Bowers recalled the intolerance that marked the 1928 contest and condemned the
                    "marching men in uniforms of bedsheets and pillowcases, the fanning of the flames of hate,
                    the burning of crosses, intimidation—all quite similar to events in 
                        Germany
                     in the 1930s."48
            
            Franklin D. Roosevelt was Bowers's most influential 
                        New York
                     political ally. Bowers had first met FDR in 
                        Washington
                     in 1913, but their friendship dated from the Hoosier's years as a journalist
                    in 
                        New York City
                    . At the request of Hearst, his Republican employer, Bowers declined to make the
                    nominating speech for Roosevelt at the 1932 Democratic convention, but during the campaign the
                    partisan journalist spoke for the national ticket in 
                  Terre
                        Haute, Detroit, Buffalo
               , and 
                        Syracuse
                    . He even substituted for Roosevelt on a nationwide radio hookup when the
                    candidate's schedule pre-vented him from delivering his own speech. In his election-year
                    editorials Bowers continued to attack the policies of President Hoover. Bowers blamed the Great
                    Depression on "the policies of the Coolidge regime of complete subservience to Wall Street
                    …" and argued that "Mr. Hoover has done little and has done the little
                    that he did very late after irreparable damage had been done."49 At the
                    same time Bowers compared Roosevelt to Jefferson and Jackson, claiming that all three represented
                    the tenet that "governments 
                  
                     46 Claude G. Bowers, keynote address to the 1928 Democratic convention
                            in 
                                Houston
                            , reprinted in The Political News, July, 1928, pp. 11, 10,
                            Bowers Papers III.
                  
                     47 Claude G. Bowers, Beveridge and the Progressive
                            Era (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1932), 533.
                  
                     48 Bowers, My Life, 203.
                  
                     49
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Evening Journal, October 1, 15, 1932.
               
                    
                    
                  CLAUDE G. BOWERS'S "DECORATION DAY" SPEECH, JULY 4, 1917, FORT WAYNE, INDIANA
                  
               
                    
                  CLAUDE G. BOWERS GIVING A TALK AT A DEMOCRATIC PARTY EVENT IN NEW YORK CITY
                                IN THE LATE 1920S
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     exist for the equal benefit of all the people, and for the
                    protection of the public against the exploitation of powerful monopolies."50
            
            Bowers played a part in shaping Roosevelt's view of himself and his administration as
                    contemporary continuators of Jefferson's democratic principles. At Bowers's
                    request the future president had, in 1925, written his only book review, a laudatory critique of Jefferson and Hamilton for the Evening World. Reflecting on this
                    work, Roosevelt remarked: "I wonder if, a century and a quarter later, the same contending
                    forces are not again mobilizing. Hamiltonians we have today. Is a Jefferson on the
                        horizon?"51 As president, Roosevelt readily accepted the role of
                    the "new Jefferson" and went to great lengths to associate himself with the
                        Virginian.52 The Hyde Park executive often quoted Jefferson and on occasion
                    instructed his subordinates to search for statements by the third president that could be used to
                    support New Deal initiatives. In his appointments Roosevelt favored Democrats who were known
                    admirers of the Virginian. Roosevelt's first ambassador to 
                        Germany
                     was University of 
                        Chicago
                     historian William E. Dodd who was well known for his laudatory views of Jefferson. Both
                    as a loyal supporter in the 1932 campaign and as a renowned defender of Jefferson, Bowers was
                    particularly deserving in the president's eyes to be a part of his administration.
            The president-elect in 1933 offered Bowers the choice of several European ambassadorial posts.
                    "I selected 
                        Spain
                    ," Bowers stated, "partly because they had just established a republic
                    and I was very anxious to watch what progress they would make."53
                    In-deed, the Spanish monarch had been voted out of power in 1931 by a liberal-leftist majority. For
                    Bowers the essential issue for con-temporary 
                        Spain
                     was whether the conservative monarchists would prevail or whether the republicans would
                    construct a democratic society based on universal suffrage and equal social opportunities. Almost
                    predictably Bowers noted that the strong opposition of the Spanish right to liberal reforms reminded
                    him "so much of the struggle of the first twelve years of the 
                        United States
                     when the Hamiltonians were fighting democracy and trying to establish a plutocratic
                        republic."54 In Madrid the ambassador was shocked to discover that
                    almost all American embassy personnel, like their business counterparts in 
                        Spain
                    , preferred the security of a conservative 
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., October 5, 1932.
                  
                     51 Quoted in Peterson, Jeffersonian Image in the American
                                Mind, 352.
                  
                     52 For a discussion of Bowers's influence on Roosevelt and
                            the New Deal's use of the Jefferson legacy, see ibid., 347-76.
                  
                     53 Bowers, "Reminiscences," 92.
                  
                     54 Claude G. Bowers, "My Spanish Diary," November
                            13, 1935, Bowers Papers II.
               
                    
                    
                  AMBASSADOR CLAUDE G. BOWERS
                  
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     monarchy to a democratic republic. Concerning the republic
                    Bowers acidly observed, "It seems no one is for it but the mass of the people."55 As the political fortunes of the right and the left ebbed and flowed, Bowers
                    remained correctly neutral, but in his diplomatic dispatches he angered the conservative Republicans
                    in the State Department by siding with the democratic parties in the center of 
                        Spain
                    's political spectrum.56
            
            Bowers never became accustomed to the rather meaningless social life of the diplomatic corps.
                    Reflecting his background and his beliefs, he went out of his way to be a democratic,
                    "shirt-sleeves" ambassador. His frequent comments on diplomatic entertaining
                    re-veal his forthright, commonsense approach: "This evening went to a tea at the home of
                    … the counsellor of the French embassy.… We got away as soon as possible. Lord
                    spare me from such an empty life."57 Nevertheless, in many ways he was
                    forced to conform to the aristocratic requirements of his position. Since the 
                        United States
                     owned no embassy in Madrid, Bowers rented a large ducal palace which served both as his
                    residence and offices.58 The building occupied an entire city block and included
                    a Goya salon built around a series of this Spaniard's paintings, a sacristy and chapel, a
                    marble-floored dining room with paintings on the ceiling and a table that seated more than twenty
                    guests, a tennis court, and a large formal garden with a stone terrace. The staff required for the
                    embassy consisted of a butler, two footmen, two chefs, a doorkeeper, a gardener, a kitchen maid, two
                    house maids, and a charwoman. These servants' wages totaled $253.00 a month, and
                    their food allowance came to an additional $165.00. Because of his limited personal
                    resources, Bowers hired a French chef only when he gave formal state dinners.
            Entertaining in 
                        Spain
                     represented myriad, often unique problems. The government was a parliamentary
                    democracy, but the instability of the party coalitions meant frequent ministerial changes. Bowers
                    twice offered luncheons for the prime minister, only to discover after it was too late to cancel the
                    function that the honored guest was in fact an ex-minister and prohibited by protocol from
                    attending. One typical menu described by Bowers demonstrates the elaborateness of these affairs as
                    well as the ambassador's faulty French: 
                  
                     55
                     Ibid., July 11, 1933.
                  
                     56 For harsh criticisms of Bowers by career diplomats in the State
                            Department, see William Phillips, "Diary," August 5, 21, 1936, William
                            Phillips Papers (Hough-ton Library, 
                                Harvard
                             University, 
                        Cambridge, Massachusetts
                     ); and John D. Hickerson to
                            Jay Pierrepont Moffat, October 14, 1936, Jay Pierrepont Moffat Papers (Houghton Library).
                  
                     57 Bowers, "My Spanish Diary," April 12, 1934.
                  
                     58 For details of the Madrid embassy see ibid., June
                            2, 16, 1933; and Claude Bowers to Patricia Bowers, May 31, 1933, Bowers Papers III.
               
                    
                    
                  AMBASSADOR CLAUDE G. BOWERS PRESENTS HIS CREDENTIALS TO MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS LUIS ZULETA ESCOLANO, JUNE 1, 1933
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                    
                    
                        Oeufs Poches Princesse
                        Filets De Soles Normande
                        Noisette de Veau Forestier
                        Mousseline de Volaille Strasbourgoise
                        Salade de Saison
                        Mousse de Fraises Glacee
                        Gateau
                        Delices de Camerbert.59
                  
                    
            
            During the summer months the Spanish government and the accredited foreign missions left sweltering
                    Madrid for the cool ocean breezes from the Bay of Biscay in the northern city of San Sebastian. Just
                    across the border in 
                        France
                     at Biarritz the Prince of 
                        Wales
                    , later King Edward VIII of 
                        England
                    , vacationed. Bowers noted with amusement that some of the snobbish foreign summer
                    residents complained that the future monarch's attire was too casual. They say, he wrote,
                    that the prince "lowers the tone" of their resort.60 In August
                    of 1934 Bowers reported that a friend saw the future king at a night club "with Mrs
                    Simpson, his latest mistress, looking much dissipated and unhappy."61
            
            The ambassador's duties of course involved far more than the boring rounds of social
                    engagements. In addition to such normal diplomatic chores as reporting to 
                        Washington
                     on the Spanish political situation and overseeing the freeing of drunken American
                    sail-ors arrested in Iberian ports, Bowers devoted most of his energies in his first three years in
                    Madrid to economic concerns.62 Despite his personal suspicion of big business he
                    was a vigorous defender of the rights of 
                        United States
                     firms in 
                        Spain
                    , particularly International Telephone and Telegraph, the Firestone Company, General
                    Motors, Ford, General Electric, and the National City Bank Corporation. He also labored for a
                    commercial accord between the two nations, but sensitive economic interests in each country so
                    complicated negotiations that no treaty was signed.63 Bowers did successfully
                    argue for a $650,000 loan to 
                        Spain
                     from the 
                        United States
                     Export-Import Bank in 1934 and managed to convince the Tariff Commission to permit
                    increased imports of Spanish wines, pro-duce, and sausages into the American market.
            
               
                  59 Bowers, "My Spanish Diary," May 4, 1934.
               
                  60
                        Ibid., August 9, 1934.
               
                  61
                        Ibid., August 28, 1934.
               
                  62 For an analysis of Bowers's diplomacy concerning 
                            United States
                        -Spanish economic relations, see Sabine Jessner, "Claude G. Bowers, New
                        Deal Advocate of Spanish-American Commerce, 1933–1939," Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of the Social Sciences, XX (1985).
               
                  63 Correspondence between Bowers and Roosevelt concerning 
                            United States
                        -Spanish trade difficulties is found in President's Personal File,
                        1936–1945, 730, Franklin D. Roosevelt Papers as President (Franklin D. Roosevelt
                        Library, Hyde Park, 
                            New York
                        ).
            
            
            Spanish elections in February, 1936, brought to power the Popular Front, a coalition of moderate
                    groups and the Socialist and Communist parties. The traditional conservatives opposed these
                    republicans' program to secularize public education and to initiate land reform and
                    personal income taxes. Terrorist attacks between the right and the left became increasingly frequent
                    following the election. In July, 1936, the frightened conservatives, led by a military uprising,
                    resorted to civil war to overcome the Popular Front government. Soon the conflict turned into a
                    drawn-out struggle between the conservative army troops commanded by General Francisco Franco and
                    the forces of the moderate-leftist political parties under the leadership of Prime Minister Manuel
                    Azana.
            The 
                  United States, France
               , and Britain declared their neutrality in the military's
                    attempt to overthrow Spanish democracy. Bowers soon realized that Adolph Hitler's 
                        Germany
                     and Benito Mussolini's 
                        Italy
                     were pouring men and materiel into 
                        Spain
                     to assist General Franco, and the ambassador, of course, emphasized this intervention
                    in his many reports to the State Department.64 True to his democratic
                    principles, the ambassador confessed to his diary, "My sympathies are wholly with the
                        Government."65 How-ever, many career diplomats in 
                        Washington
                     were conservative Re-publican appointees of Presidents Harding, Coolidge, and Hoover.
                    Unlike Bowers, these foreign service officers feared the alliance of the small Communist party with
                    the Popular Front government of the republic far more than the totalitarian forces backing General
                        Franco.66 Suspicious of political appointees, Undersecretary of State
                    William Phillips reportedly had acquiesced to Bowers's ambassadorship in Madrid only after
                    Roosevelt exerted pressure.67 The undersecretary was convinced that the Popular
                    Front victory in 1936 meant that "
                        Spain
                     may become Communistic," and he consistently opposed the ambassador's
                        suggestions.68 Bowers certainly held foreign service officers in low esteem.
                    Typical of his views of professional diplomats was a comment to his wife that "the more I
                    see of career men the more I doubt their interest in or partiality for democracy."69 Bowers was very aware of the hostility of some career officers toward him.
                    Once on encountering difficulties with the State 
                  
                     64 Bowers to Cordell Hull, September 21, 1936, Bowers Papers II;
                            Bowers, "My Spanish Diary," June 1, 1939.
                  
                     65 Bowers, "My Spanish Diary," August 21, 1936.
                  
                     66 For an analysis of Bowers's difficulties with the State
                            Department, see Douglas Little, "Claude Bowers: The Diplomacy of a Jeffersonian
                            Diplomat" (Paper given at the convention of the American Historical Association, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., December 29, 1980); and Douglas Little, "Claude Bowers and His
                            Mission to 
                                Spain
                            : The Diplomacy of a Jeffersonian Democrat," in Kenneth Paul Jones,
                            ed., U.S. Diplomats in Europe, 1919–1941 (
                                Santa Barbara
                            , Calif., 1981), 129-46.
                  
                     67 Raymond Moley, After Seven Years (
                                New York
                            , 1939), 131-32.
                  
                     68 Phillips, "Diary," June 2, 1936.
                  
                     69 Bowers to Sybil and Pat Bowers, March 22, 1939, Bowers Papers
                        III.
               
                    
                    
                  AMBASSADOR TO SPAIN CLAUDE G. BOWERS AT His DESK IN THE WARTIME EMBASSY, ST.-JEANDE-LUZ, FRANCE, DURING THE SPANISH CIVIL WAR
                  
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     Department, he wrote, "I am sure some bureaucratic
                    pups are responsible, and they are all Republicans and hate me like poison."70
            
            Bowers sent many reports and letters in favor of the republican cause to the State Department and to
                    President Roosevelt, but the ambassador exerted no discernible influence on 
                        United States
                     policy toward 
                        Spain
                     during the civil war. Despite his many reports to 
                        Washington
                     that the Popular Front could not hold out indefinitely unless the democracies permitted
                    the elected government to purchase arms, the State Department was quite content to witness the
                    victory of General Franco with the support of Hitler and Mussolini.71 American
                    businessmen with Spanish investments, particularly International Telephone and Telegraph and
                    National City Bank, also feared the influence of the Socialist and Communist parties in the Popular
                    Front and were outspoken in favoring a fascist victory. Executives of these firms, of course, helped
                    to influence 
                        United States
                     policy during the civil war.72 Like his ambassador, Roosevelt
                    sympathized with the legitimate democratic government in 
                        Spain
                    , but throughout the Spanish civil war the 
                        United States
                     followed the lead of Britain and 
                        France
                     in carefully avoiding any outright confrontation with Hitler and Mussolini. Both
                    Roosevelt and Secretary of State Cordell Hull were quite aware that public opinion in the 
                        United States
                     during the 1930s strongly opposed American involvement in foreign conflicts. 
                        France
                     followed the policies and dictates of Britain. In 
                        London
                    , Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain directed his popular policy of appeasement by
                    sanctioning Hitler's annexation of 
                        Austria
                     and rape of 
                        Czechoslovakia
                     and by accepting Mussolini's conquest of 
                        Ethiopia
                    . In the case of 
                  Spain, France
                and Britain pretended that the civil war was a localized conflict
                    in order to placate the fascist powers. Both democracies refused to permit the republic to buy arms
                    from them, as did the 
                        United States
                    .73 With one million dead in 
                        Spain
                     and after such infamous atrocities as the 
                        German
                     pilots' bombing of Guernica on market day—immortalized by Pablo
                    Picasso's mural—fascism conquered Spanish democracy in early 1939.
            
               
                  70 Bowers to Secretary of Commerce Daniel C. Roper, July 31, 1935,
                        Official File, 1933–1945, 303.1, Franklin D. Roosevelt Papers as President.
               
                  71 For Secretary of State Cordell Hull's defense of 
                            United States
                         policy toward 
                            Spain
                         during the civil war see Hull to Bowers, November 2, 1936, Volume 40 (microfilm
                        edition, reel 14), Cordell Hull Papers (Library of Congress, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.); and Cordell Hull, The Memoirs of Cordell Hull (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1948), I, 485, 504.
               
                  72 For Bowers's views on the importance of International
                        Telephone and Telegraph and National City Bank in influencing 
                            United States
                         policy toward 
                            Spain
                         during the civil war, see Bowers, "My Spanish Diary," May 11,
                        June 1, 1939.
               
                  73 Concerning the diplomacy of the civil war see Hugh Thomas, The Spanish Civil War (
                            New York
                        , 1958); F. Jay Taylor, The 
                            United States
                         and the Spanish Civil War (
                            New York
                        , 1956); Richard P. Traina, American Diplomacy and the Spanish Civil
                            War (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1968); and Robert Dallek, Franklin D. Roosevelt and American Foreign
                            Policy, 1932–1945 (
                            New York
                        , 1981).
            
            
            Because of his strong democratic beliefs and the opposition to-ward him in the State Department,
                    Bowers did not negotiate with Franco's regime. Aware of the pro-Franco sentiments of Joseph
                    P. Kennedy, 
                        United States
                     ambassador in 
                        London
                    , Bowers suspected that the diplomat's eldest son, Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr., had
                    worked out the details of American recognition of the new government.74 This
                    notion was based on Bowers's knowledge that this Kennedy son was in Madrid when the city
                    fell to the insurgents in the spring of 1939.75 Bowers later accepted
                    Hull's statement that William Bullitt, 
                        United States
                     ambassador to 
                        France
                    , had arranged this matter.76
            
            Recalled to 
                        Washington
                     in the spring of 1939, Bowers was greeted by a downcast Roosevelt: "I have
                    made a mistake. You have been right all along. I have been imposed upon by false information from
                    across the street [the State Department]."77 For the Spanish republic,
                    however, this conclusion came too late. That same day Senator Key Pittman confessed to Bowers,
                    "I am afraid we made a mistake about 
                        Spain
                    ."78 In 1936 Pittman had introduced the neutrality bill
                    that prohibited the sale of arms to 
                        Spain
                    . Back in 
                        Washington
                     Bowers was offered the post of ambassador to 
                        Poland
                    , but he refused it. Instead, he chose to become ambassador to 
                        Chile
                    .
            Bowers served in Santiago for fourteen years, 1939 to 1953, primarily during the administrations of
                    Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S Truman.79 President Dwight D. Eisenhower
                    accepted Bowers's resignation in August, 1953. Early in Bowers's tenure in 
                        Chile
                     the European war between democracy and fascism broke out again, just as the ambassador
                    had predicted. Six months after the fall of the republic in 
                        Spain
                    , the 
                        German
                     invasion of 
                        Poland
                     on September 1, 1939, started World War II. Two years later Pearl Harbor would bring
                    the 
                        United States
                     into the war against fascism.
            In 
                        Chile
                     Bowers again encountered an elected Popular Front government intent on improving the
                    living standards of the masses. Needless to say, he sympathized with its goals. This time the State
                    Department assisted him in his defense of democracy. A large and influential 
                        German
                    -Chilean population made Bowers's advocacy of the Allied war effort important
                    in Santiago. When 
                        Chile
                     later joined 
                  
                     74 Bowers, "My Spanish Diary," March 10, 1939.
                  
                     75 Walter C. Thurston, St.-Jean-de-Luz, April 11, 1939, telegram 612,
                            Department of State, 130 Joseph P. Kennedy (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
                  
                     76 Claude G. Bowers, My Mission to 
                                    Spain
                                : Watching the Rehearsal for World War II (
                                New York
                            , 1954), 420.
                  
                     77 Quoted in Bowers to Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., April 12, 1951,
                            Bowers Papers III.
                  
                            78
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     79 For the details of his ambassadorship in 
                                Chile
                             see Claude G. Bowers, "My Chilean Diary," Bowers Papers II;
                            and Claude G. Bowers, 
                        
                                    Chile
                                 through Embassy Windows, 1939–1953 (
                                New York
                            , 1950).
               
                    
                    
                  LEFT TO RIGHT, MRS. IBANEZ, PRESIDENT CARLOS IBANEZ
                                DEL CAMPO, MRS. ELEANOR
                                ROOSEVELT, MRS. SYBIL BOWERS, AND AMBASSADOR CLAUDE G.
                                BOWERS, SANTIAGO, CHILE
                  
                  Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     the struggle against 
                  Germany, Italy
               , and 
                        Japan
                    , the 
                        United States
                     embassy under Bowers's guidance helped increase the export of strategic
                    Chilean copper to supply the essential armament industries.
            Despite his full schedule as ambassador for twenty years, Bowers continued to expound his democratic
                    views in his published works. Two more volumes were dedicated to an appreciation of Thomas
                    Jefferson's contributions to American democracy: Jefferson in Power
                    (1936) and The Young Jefferson (1945). Basing his re-search on materials found in
                    the archives of the 
                        United States
                     embassy in Madrid, Bowers recounted the experiences of one of his famous predecessors
                    as minister to 
                        Spain
                     in The Spanish Adventures of 
                            Washington
                         Irving (1940). Since his days as a high school student reading in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public Library, Bowers had amired Pierre Vergniaud as a spokesman for personal
                    liberties and an opponent of dictatorship during the French Revolution. While ambassador to 
                        Spain
                    , Bowers found time to do research in 
                        Paris
                     on this French democrat and published Pierre Vergniaud: The Voice of the
                        French Revolution in 1950. In this biography the author paid the Frenchman the ultimate
                    compliment by asserting that "his conception of a good society was identical with that of
                    Thomas Jefferson."80
            
            Claude, Sybil, and Pat returned to 
                        New York City
                     in 1953. In his apartment near Central Park the partisan Democrat continued in his
                    retirement to disseminate his views through his speeches and his writing. He gave lectures on 
                        United States
                     history and foreign policy in 
                  Memphis;
                            Oxford, Mississippi; Indianapolis; New York; Washington
               ,
                    D.C.; 
                  Lexington, Kentucky; Princeton
               ; and 
                        New Haven
                    . A lifelong advocate of free speech, he opposed the excesses and the hysteria generated
                    by Senator Joseph McCarthy's anticommunist crusade, and in 1955 and 1956 Bowers found time
                    to serve on a 
                        New York
                     committee supporting Adlai Stevenson for the Democratic presidential nomination. In his
                    first year back in the 
                        United States
                     the retired ambassador published My Mission to 
                            Spain
                        
                (1954), a volume recounting his experiences between 1933 and 1939. Likewise,
                    in 
                  
                            Chile
                         through Embassy Windows (1958) he discussed his fourteen years in Santiago.
                    When he died in 1958, he had finished all but the final chapter of his autobiography, My Life, which was published posthumously in 1962. In each of these volumes Bowers
                    emphasized his efforts to promote the cause of democracy in the 
                  United
                            States, Spain
               , and 
                        Chile
                    .
            Claude G. Bowers was an outstanding representative of a generation of important midwestern reformers.
                    From his high school 
                  
                     80 Claude G. Bowers, Pierre Vergniaud: The Voice of the
                                French Revolution (
                                New York
                            , 1950), 9.
               
                     days in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on, he fervently believed that "government and its policies are the business
                    of every citizen."81 As an outspoken progressive, the Hoosier native
                    dedicated his life to a defense of his ideals. Throughout the progressive era, the conservative
                    decade of the 1920s, and the New Deal years and until his death in 1958, he continued to champion
                    his faith in representative government. As a journalist, orator, political aide, ambassador, and
                    author of historical works, Bowers was a proud partisan of popular democracy.
            
               
                  81 Bowers, My Life, 42.
            
         
         
         
            The Indians and the 
                        Michigan
                     Road
            
                    Juanita Hunter
                    ∗
                
            The 
                        United States
                     Confederation Congress adopted on May 20, 1785, an ordinance that established the
                    method by which the federal government would transfer its vast, newly acquired national domain to
                    private ownership. According to the Land Ordinance of 1785 the first step in this transferral
                    process was purchase by the government of all Indian claims. In the state of Indiana by 1821 a
                    series of treaties had cleared Indian title from most land south of the Wabash
                    River. Territory north of the river remained in the hands of the Miami and Potawatomi
                    tribes, who retained possession of at least portions of the area until their removals from the state
                    during the late 1830s and early 1840s.1
            
            After a brief hiatus following 1821, attempts to secure additional cessions of land from the Indians
                    in Indiana resumed in 1826. In the fall of that year three commissioners of the 
                        United States
                     government—General John Tipton, Indian agent at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ; Lewis Cass, governor of 
                        Michigan
                     Territory; and James 
                        Brown
                     Ray, governor of Indiana—met with leading chiefs and warriors of the
                    Potawatomi and Miami tribes authorized in part "to propose an exchange of land …
                    acre for acre West, of the 
                        Mississippi
                    .…"2 The final treaty, signed October 26, 1826,
                    contained no provision for complete Indian removal from the state. The Potawatomis agreed, however,
                    to three important land cessions and received certain benefits that included payment of debts and
                    claims held against 
                  
                     ∗ Juanita Hunter is a graduate of Indiana State Teachers
                            College, 
                                Terre Haute
                            , and was a social studies teacher at 
                                Logansport
                             High School, 
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana, at the time of her retirement. She is currently a member of the Board
                            of Directors of the 
                                Cass County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Logansport
                            .
                  
                     1 John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From
                                Frontier to Indus-trial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                    New York
                                , 1954), I, 203-205, 210-19.
                  
                  
                     2 Nellie Armstrong Robertson and Dorothy Riker, eds., The
                                John Tipton Papers, 1809–1839 (3 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, Vols.
                                XXIV, XXV, XXVI; 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1942), I, 537.
                  
               
                     them. In addition, the treaty provided for eighty-six
                    individual reserves.3
            
            Especially significant was the land ceded in Article II of the treaty. With the northward push of
                    settlers in Indiana during the early 1820s considerable interest had developed in constructing a
                    road from Lake 
                        Michigan
                     to the Ohio River via the new state capital in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Such a road would provide access to new areas as well as a means for getting excess
                    produce to market. By crossing the National Road at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the north-south road would also open sections of northern Indiana to points east.
                    Governor Ray was almost single-handedly responsible for the inclusion of the road proposal in the
                    treaty negotiations.4 Couched in the white negotiators' language and
                    questionably attributing white views to the Indians, Article II of the final treaty read in part:
                        
                        As an evidence of the attachment which the Potawatamie tribe feel towards the American
                            people, and particularly to the soil of Indiana, and with a view to demonstrate their
                            liberality, and benefit themselves by creating facilities for travelling and increasing the
                            value of their remaining country, the said tribe do hereby cede to the 
                                United States
                            , a strip of land, commencing at Lake 
                                Michigan
                            , and running thence to the Wabash river, one hundred feet
                            wide, for a road, and also, one section of good land contiguous to the said road, for each
                            mile of the same, and also for each mile of a road from the termination thereof, through 
                                Indianapolis
                             to the 
                                Ohio
                             river, for the purpose of making a road aforesaid from Lake 
                                Michigan
                            , by the way of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , to some convenient point on the 
                                Ohio
                             river.5
                  
                    
            
            Despite the treaty's implications the commissioners had difficulty persuading the Indians to
                    cede land for the proposed road, and implementation of the final agreement proved extremely
                    troublesome. In these respects the treaty of 1826 was no different from preceding negotiations
                    between the Indians and the national government. A statement written in 1908 in History
                        of 
                            Michigan City
                        , Indiana, expressed in a bias typical of its time one opinion of the Indians
                    and treaty-making in general: 
                        The untutored savage was very wily in the matter of these treaties, being very ready to enter
                            into them and equally ready to crawl out. The Indians would claim that their alleged chiefs
                            acted without authority; that the treaties were not plain to them; that their young men were
                            made drunk and were then overreached; that the agreements were abrogated by the
                            encroachments of settlers, or that other tribes had assumed to cede the lands of the
                            objectors without right …6
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     3 Charles J. Kappler, ed., Indian Affairs: Laws and
                                Treaties (7 vols., Washing-ton, D.C., 1904–1979), II, 273-77. The Miamis
                            proved more determined than the Potawatomis to retain their lands. The commissioners were
                            forced to negotiate a separate treaty with them, signed one week later on October 23, 1826,
                            at the same treaty grounds at Mississinewa. Ibid., 278-81; Robertson and Riker, 
                        
                                    Tipton
                                 Papers, I, 590-92.
                  
                     4 Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, I, 290-91; Geneal
                            Prather, "The Struggle for the 
                                Michigan
                             Road," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIX (March,
                            1943), 1-8; Robertson and Riker, 
                        
                                    Tipton
                                 Papers, I, 587.
                  
                     5 Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties, II,
                            274.
                  
                     6 Rollo B. Oglesbee and Albert Hale, History of 
                                    Michigan City
                                , Indiana ([
                                La Porte
                            , Ind.], 1908), 42.
               
                     The authors of this work did add, however, that "too
                    often there was some basis in fact in the [Indians'] averments."7 Research indicates that the Potawatomis, as well as other tribes, were justified in their
                    complaints. Of the Potawatomis in particular the book continued: "The Pottawattomies were
                    indefatigable treaty makers and traveled long distances to be present at treaty
                    councils.… They liked the festivities with which the negotiations were accompanied, and
                    they liked to share the liberal payments the government gave for the land."8
            
            Difficulties regarding treaties were aggravated by the mobile, loose structure of the Indian groups.
                    Chiefs frequently moved their bands; individuals changed villages. Intertribal marriages,
                    over-lapping territories, and changing alliances were hard for whites to understand. They negotiated
                    business deals, etc., with a "chief," often not realizing that the Indians had
                    village chiefs, ceremonial chiefs, or war chiefs, who might have only temporary or limited
                    authority. Moreover, the Indians were not cognizant of state boundaries. During the early 1800s they
                    roamed throughout the Old Northwest Territory and even across the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Regional groups functioned independently and signed different treaties. Individual
                    chiefs had varying attitudes, and young warriors were more likely than their elders to support
                    Indian confederation and oppose cooperation with Americans.9
            
            Loyalty to the French, British, or Americans constantly changed, usually according to which group
                    exhibited the most power at the time. French influence was strongest during earlier periods when fur
                    trading was the main source of subsistence for the Indians. Intermarriage accounted for Potawatomis
                    or Miamis with French names who were eligible for government annuities and reserves. Many of those
                    with mixed blood had some schooling and attained leadership position; usually they supported the
                    white man's cause and so influenced other tribal members. American farmers were intruders
                    and often squatters on Indian lands; therefore, most of the tribesmen were happy to get guns,
                    ammunition, whiskey, and other trade goods from the British and were 
                        England
                    's allies during the War of 1812. During this period the Potawatomis earned the
                    reputation of being the 
                        United States
                    's "most cruel and inveterate enemies."10
                    Many isolated and organized aggressive acts occurred between the Potawatomis and the Americans. Both
                    sides were guilty of indiscriminate barbarism. Some instances were considered 
                  
                            7
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            8
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     9 For general discussion of Indian culture and of Indian-white
                            relations, particularly concerning the Potawatomis, see, for example, R. David Edmunds, The Potawatomis: Keepers of the Fires (
                                Norman
                            , Okla., 1978), 15-16, 21-23, 216-19, passim.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 56-58, 99, 222, 227-28, passim. Quotation is
                            located on p. 198.
               
                    
                    
                  LEWIS CASS GOVERNOR OF MICHIGAN TERRITORY (1813–1831); SECRETARY OF WAR (1831–1836); COMMISSIONER, TREATY OF MISSISSINEWA (1826)
                  Reproduced from Edwin Wood, Historic Mackinac: The Historical, Picturesque and
                            Legendary Features of the Mackinac Country … (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1918), II, 526.
               
                    
                    
                  JOHN TIPTON INDIAN AGENT (1823–1831); COMMISSIONER, TREATY
                                OF MISSISSINEWA (1826); UNITED STATES SENATOR (1831–1839)
                  Courtesy 
                                Cass County
                             Historical Society, 
                                Logansport
                            , Indiana; painting by George Winter located in 
                                Tipton
                             Masonic Lodge #33, 
                                Logansport
                            ; photograph by Stephen Burch.
               
                    
                    
                  JAMES BROWN RAY GOVERNOR OF INDIANA (1825–1831); COMMISSIONER, TREATY OF MISSISSINEWA (1826)
                  Courtesy Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; reproduced from Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough, eds., Messages and Papers relating to the Administration of James 
                                    Brown
                                 Ray, Governor of Indiana, 1825–1831 (Indiana
                                Historical Collections, Vol. XXXIV; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1954), frontispiece.
               
                     revenge, some unauthorized behavior of rebels. The British
                    invited the Indians to 
                        Canada
                    , while Americans continually tried to move treaty and annunity sites far from British
                    influence. After the Treaty of Ghent was ratified in 1815, the Potawatomis reluctantly recognized
                    that Americans controlled the area. By this time the fur trade would no longer support the Indians;
                    thus, they became more and more dependent on government annuities from the 
                        United States
                    .11
            
            Congress passed laws trying to bring about the civilization and assimilation of the Indians. Some
                    money was appropriated, and hoes, plows, and livestock were sent to the Indian agents. The Quakers
                    developed a program to teach the tribes agricultural methods and tried several times to set up a
                    mission near 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . A few chiefs gave passing interest to these experiments, but most of the Indians did
                    not progress past their small gardens. This increased their vulnerability to seeking trade goods on
                    credit and being willing to give up land to pay off their debts. White traders and land-hungry
                    settlers reacted; they especially welcomed the treaty of October 16, 1826, since it not only opened
                    up new sections of land but also made possible a road to get there.12
            
            Individuals in the whole area knew of the impending treaty for months. James Barbour of the
                    Department of War officially notified the commissioners of their appointment on May 24, 1826,13 and from that point on the three received a deluge of letters from men
                    seeking jobs or business opportunities. Some applied for them-selves; others had relatives or
                    political figures recommend them. Sometimes a long list of supporters' names was attached
                    to add weight to the recommendation. The most common reason given for deserving a job or getting a
                    contract was the need for the money, not the applicant's ability to do the work
                        efficiently.14
            
            Staff for the treaty-making session were finally selected and supplies contracted for. Colonel
                    William Marshall was chosen secretary. James M. Ray, an Indiana state legislator, was the
                    assist-ant. In a report of the treaty council written in 1884, Ray claimed that Marshall was ill and
                    that he, Ray, actually served as secretary.15 Benjamin B. Kercheval
                    "was to supply the table and to pre-pare every thing necessary for the Commissioners
                    & persons 
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., 178-206, 215-16; Robertson and Riker, 
                        
                                    Tipton
                                 Papers, II, 87; ibid., III, 641.
                  
                     12 Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties, I, 7;
                            U.S., Statutes at Large, III, 516-17; Edmunds, Potawatomis, 162-63.
                  
                     13 Robertson and Riker, 
                        
                                    Tipton
                                 Papers, I, 536-37.
                  
                     14 For examples of letters asking for appointments see ibid., 540, 545-46, 550-51, 552-54, 556.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 577; [Thomas B. Helm], History of 
                                    Wabash County
                                , Indiana… (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 89-90.
               
                     required to attend the treaty." The commissioners
                    received applications from at least five doctors.16
            
            Guard duty was a coveted position, and many applied; nine-teen eventually signed an
                    "Agreement with Commissioners." The agreement opened with a "promise to
                    abstain from intoxication, riots and every kind of disorderly behaviour." In return guards
                    were guaranteed "a good rifle or musket with powder and Lead, a Tent or house for shelter
                    when in Camp … [as well as] sufficient rations of good and wholesome Beef & Bread
                    or flour with salt, and one gill of Liquor per day.…" 
                        Tipton
                     drew up orders for the treaty guards. Procedures included "revelee
                    … at Brake of Day, retreat at sunset and Tattoo at 9 oclock on each day, with the other
                    usuel Beats of Drum … and train in squad exercise 3 times each day
                    …[.]" Pay for guard duty was fifty cents to one dollar per day, and at least
                    eight men drew thirty-five dollars each for forty days service in Indian country.17
            
            Three men-including Martin M. Ray, brother of Governor Ray-were instructed to "advertise and
                    close contracts … for 40.000 lbs fresh beef 10.000 [lbs.] pork and 250 bbls.
                    flour" to supply all workers and participants at the treaty negotiations. In June, Tip-ton
                    had suggested that thirty thousand pounds of meat and one hundred fifty barrels of flour would be
                    needed. The list of persons drawing rations justifies the seemingly huge quantities. There were
                    twenty-four bands of Potawatomis, varying in size from seven to eighty-two each and "there
                    was allso about 50 that drew on special orders who are connected with white men and allso between 50
                    and 100 Frenchmen who were trying to get land that drew rations most of the time[.]"18 Negotiations with the Miamis were also taking place at the same site although
                    their number was smaller. Numerous contractors vied for the privilege of furnishing supplies.
            
               
                        Tipton
                     and James 
                        Brown
                     Ray were responsible for the final choice of the treaty site. Cass had suggested that
                    it "ought to be far enough within the Indian boundary to give us the entire control of the
                    persons about us, so that we may be enabled to keep whiskey from the Indians." Since water
                    was another priority, 
                        Tipton
                     and Ray chose Paradise Springs near the junction of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Mississinewa rivers, close to the site of the present-day city of 
                        Wabash
                    .19 Preparations at the treaty grounds were extensive. According to
                    one early county history, "Gen. 
                        Tipton
                    , the Indian Agent, accompanied by Joseph Barron the Interpreter, and James H. Kintner,
                    and others after first selecting the site for the coming treaty, erected a number of shanties and
                    other buildings, suitable 
                  
                     16 Robertson and Riker, 
                        
                                    Tipton
                                 Papers, I, 543-44, 550-51.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., 574-75, 593.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., 566, 543, 614-18.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., 544, 567.
               
                     for Commissioners' headquarters, store houses, council
                    house, quarters for soldiers and other necessary attaches of the commissioners."20
            
            The often circus-like atmosphere at the treaty site and the al-ways possible "collision
                    between tribes" justified the guards selected by the commissioners. In James M.
                    Ray's personal narrative of the negotiations he refers to a riot when some Indians broke
                    into quarters in the commissary cabin trying to get more than their small ration of whiskey. It was
                    settled by daybreak when "the interpreters and others, well armed, passed quietly through
                    the camp.…"21 Ray's eyewitness account of another
                    incident depicts the general atmosphere surrounding the treaty site: 
                        We were treated to several native dances, one being on a park, carefully cleared, east of the 
                                Wabash
                            , around which a circular path for dancing was prepared with soft leaves for the
                            moccasins. It being night, the limbs of the trees around were well lighted with candles
                            furnished by our Commissioners. In a leading dance, a prominent brave, brightly painted (as
                            most of the dancers were), whirled into the path, keeping time with the music of a rough
                            drum, beating time as he passed around the circle, instantly followed, singly, behind him,
                            by the bright girls, making him thus their favorite. And soon after, as other braves joined
                            the dance, space was left for their sweethearts that chose them as partners, to follow them
                            in the dance. Loud shouting and yelling followed in the choice made by the girls after
                            favorite warriors, some of whom would have groups of followers, while others would be left
                            to dance almost if not quite alone, thus receiving the mitten with the jeers of the crowd.
                            With other varieties, the dance was continuing, in the best of humor and life, when we left
                            them near midnight.22
                  
                    
            
            The formal proceedings began on October 5, 1826. Cass read a previously prepared statement to open
                    the negotiations. After ad-dressing the Indians as children and referring to the president of the 
                        United States
                     as "Your Great Father," he told them that there was no longer enough
                    game for them and that their "Great Father is willing to give for this land much more
                    … than all the game upon it would sell for.… You know well, that all he
                    promises, he will perform."23 After pointing out evils among red men
                    and white caused mostly, he claimed, by alcohol, he recommended that the Indians move west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    .
            
                    We are authorized to offer you a residence there, equal in extent to your land here, and to pay
                        you an annuity, which will make you comfortable, and to provide the means of your
                        removal.—You will then have a country abounding in game, and you will also have the
                        value of the country you leave.—You will be beyond the reach of whiskey, for it
                        cannot reach you there. Your Great Father will never suffer any of his white children to reside
                        there, for it is reserved for the red poeple [sic]. It will be yours, as long as the sun shines,
                        and the rain falls.24
               
                
            
               
                  20 Helm, History of 
                                Wabash County
                            , 93.
               
                  21
                        Ibid., 90.
               
                        22
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  23 Robertson and Riker, 
                     
                                Tipton
                             Papers, I, 578-79.
               
                  24
                        Ibid., 579-80.
            
            
            Approximately two weeks after Cass's opening statement, "Au ba, nau, bee,"
                    one of the Potawatomi chiefs, and "Legro," a Miami chief, both declared that they
                    did not wish to sell any more land. Legro summarized: "You speak to us with deceitful lips,
                    and not from your hearts.… You say the game is going away, and we must follow it; who
                    drove it away … Before you came, the game was plenty … We own there is game
                    there [in the West], but the Great Spirit has made and put men there, who have a right to that game,
                    and it is not ours—."25 The commissionners responded that,
                    unlike the British, Americans did not take land without negotiations. They noted the amount of
                    silver, blankets, and trinkets that the Indians possessed because of the Americans' past
                    benevolence at treaty negotiations and pointed out that the chiefs and wise men knew that
                    "we give you more in annuities and presents, than all your land is
                        worth.—"26 By the following day the Potawatomis had
                    agreed to cede some lands, but only a part of what the commissioners wanted. It was at this point
                    that Indiana's Governor Ray interjected the idea of lands for "a road from 
                        Indianapolis
                    , our great village, to Lake 
                        Michigan
                    ."27 Again Aubenaubee's response was negative:
                    "We heard your proposition—we have answered you.— we have said all we
                    have to say. You have listened—. What is the reason you cannot hear?"28
            
            The secretary of the negotiations recorded none of the intervening dialog, but four days later on
                    October 16, 1826, the treaty was signed.29 The Treaty of Mississinewa was
                    ratified by the 
                        United States
                     Senate on February 7, 1827, and on March 2, 1827, Congress, in confirming the grant,
                    gave the ceded land to Indiana so that the state could apply the proceeds from its sale to building
                    the road.30
            
            In Article I of the treaty of 1826 the Potawatomis ceded a tenmile-wide strip of land north of an
                    east-west line through the southern extreme of Lake 
                        Michigan
                     stretching from the lake to the 
                        St. Joseph
                     River. This cession removed Indian title from part of the territory added to Indiana by
                    the Enabling Act of 1816 and cleared the way for a proposed harbor on Lake 
                        Michigan
                    . Also ceded in Article I was an irregular strip, averaging about ten miles wide, along
                    the Eel River to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and to the 
                        Ohio
                     boundary, which laid the groundwork for acquiring lands for the 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Erie
                     Canal. These areas were exact and clearly defined.31
            
            
               
                  25
                        Ibid., 583. The Indian names are here spelled as in the treaty reports.
                        Spelling variations are myriad; for example, "Le Gros,"
                        "Aubbeenaubbee," "Aubbanowby."
               
                  26
                        Ibid., 585-86.
               
                  27
                        Ibid., 587.
               
                  28
                        Ibid., 588.
               
                  29
                        Ibid., 589-90.
               
                  30 U.S., Statutes at Large, VII, 295-96; ibid., IV,
                        234-35.
               
                  31 Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties, II,
                        273-74.
            
            
            In return for the land cessions granted in Article I the Potawatomis received over thirty thousand
                    dollars' worth of goods provided to the Indians at the treaty site. Acccording to 
                        Tipton
                    , "Without this provision, no treaty could have been formed." In fact,
                    he considered these provisions to be one of the main reasons that the Potawatomis and Miamis had
                    agreed to come to the proceedings in the first place.32 The total cost,
                    $30,547.71, was figured to the penny; it was the exact amount (with suitable deductions
                    having been made by Tipton) owed to the many traders who were more than willing to furnish anything
                    to the Indians for a profit. The treaty also paid $9,573 in claims against the tribesmen,
                    debts that the treaty said they were anxious to discharge. According to Tip-ton, the claimants were
                    "exclusively Indian traders." Sometimes in 
                        Tipton
                    's records the claims were denied or postponed for want of proof, but the exact
                    amount of the payments had been established, apparently by Tipton himself, before the treaty
                    negotiations had even begun.33
            
            The 
                        United States
                     government also agreed to pay the Potawatomis two thousand dollars in silver each year
                    for twenty-two years. The original treaty scheduled the payments for twenty years; the two
                    additional years were a compromise when Chief Metea suggested that they should have a permanent
                    annuity of one hundred dollars for each man, woman, and child. Two thousand dollars were set aside
                    for education "as long as the Congress of the 
                        United States
                     may think proper," and the government was to build a mill on the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     (at what is today 
                        Rochester
                    ), provide a miller, and also supply the Indians with 160 bushels of salt annually.34
            
            Whether these annuities and grants were much or little has been interpreted in different ways by
                    different historians. George S. Cottman believed: "The 
                        Michigan
                     road is, in a sense, a monument to the white man's shrewdness in his dealing
                    with the red man. By the Mississinewa treaty of 1826 a goodly portion of north-ern Indiana was
                    transferred to the 
                        United States
                     for a price that would at this day, perhaps, be equivalent to a few city
                        lots."35 It was also true, however, that by 1828 
                        Tipton
                    , as Indian agent, was dispensing as much as $100,000 a year in annuities to
                    the Indians in the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     area alone. Complicating further the issue of right or wrong were the traders who
                    extended credit to the tribes-men, then collected from them on the day of the annuity payments 
                  
                     32 Robertson and Riker, 
                        
                                    Tipton
                                 Papers, I, 600.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 600-601; Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and
                            Treaties, II, 274-75.
                  
                     34 Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties, II,
                            274; Robertson and Riker, 
                                Tipton
                             Papers, I, 599n-600n.
                  
                     35 George S. Cottman, The First Thoroughfares of
                            Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1906), 52.
               
                     whether the debts were just or not. Such men vociferously
                    opposed Indian removal from Indiana.36
            
            Unlike the cessions designated in Article I, road lands granted in Article II of the treaty had yet
                    to be selected. When the treaty was negotiated and signed, no one knew how much land was being ceded
                    or where. After much debate the route eventually chosen for the 
                        Michigan
                     Road north of the Wabash River was an indirect one running from
                    the mouth of the Eel River (present-day 
                        Logansport
                    ) to the south bend of the St. Joseph River (present-day 
                        South Bend
                    ) thence westward to the mouth of Trail Creek on the lake (present-day 
                        Michigan City
                    ). The somewhat circuitous route stretched for 102 miles from the river to the lake and
                    avoided the daunting swamps along the Kankakee River. Not unil 1830 did the state legislature, after
                    extensive and acrimonious debate, decide on 
                        Madison
                     as the southern terminus. The final total length of the 
                        Michigan
                     Road was 264-plus miles.37
            
            According to the treaty of 1826 and the congressional act of March 2, 1827, the state of Indiana was
                    entitled to select one section of land for each mile of road—in the final analysis
                    264-plus sections—proceeds from the sale of which would be used to build the 
                        Michigan
                     Road. Years of debate, anxiety, and even some violence centered around the phrase
                    "one section of good land contiguous to the said road, for each mile of the same, and also
                    for each mile of a road from the termination thereof, through 
                        Indianapolis
                     to the 
                        Ohio
                     river.…" For the Potawatomis to grant lands through populated
                    southern Indiana was, of course, impossible; the sections for miles of the road south of the 
                        Wabash
                     would have to be chosen from territory north of the river. Differences of opinion among
                    the 
                        United States
                     secretary of war, secretary of treasury, the General Land Office, and the Indians
                    caught the state in the middle in the question of which lands were eligible for selection. Two
                    questions were paramount: 1) must the Indians grant sections for land south of the 
                        Wabash
                    , and 2) if so, must the remaining sections other than those along the route of the road
                    be selected from unceded territory? Early interpretations indicated that the sections would be
                    chosen from territory already acquired in existing treaties, but the federal land office later
                    determined that sections selected for the portion of the road north of the 
                        Wabash
                     must be contiguous to the route and that other noncontiguous sections must come from
                    land not previously ceded by the Indians.38
            
            
               
                  36 Robertson and Riker, 
                     
                                Tipton
                             Papers, I, 22-23.
               
                  37 Indiana, Laws (1829–1830), 111-14;
                        Robertson and Riker, 
                     
                                Tipton
                             Papers, I, 33; Prather, "Struggle for the 
                            Michigan
                         Road," 15-24.
               
                  38 Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties, II, 274;
                        Indiana, Senate Journal (1831–1832), 67-84. For a complete
                        discussion of the conflict over selection of lands for the 
                            Michigan
                         Road and the final solution of the problems, see Geneal Prather, "The
                        Construction of the 
                            Michigan
                         Road, 1830–1840," Indiana Magazine of
                        History, XL (September, 1944), 244-56.
            
            
            The Potawatomis resisted losing any sections other than contiguous ones along the road from the 
                        Wabash
                     to Lake 
                        Michigan
                    , land that they agreed had been ceded in the treaty of 1826. 
                        Tipton
                     wrote to Elijah Hayward, land office commissioner, concerning the problem: 
                        I feel bound to state to you, and through you to the President, that, at the time of
                            negotiating this treaty, these Indians did not understand that their land, not embraced
                            within the bounds of the tract then ceded, would be required to construct this road, except
                            where the road passed through the country retained by them.… This was also my
                            understanding of this treaty at the time it was made. Should the 
                                United States
                             … take the best lands now owned by these Indians, it will greatly
                            disappoint and distress them.39
                  
                    
            
            Trouble with the Indians did indeed develop in a number of instances. One such incident occurred when
                    William Polke, road commissioner, began choosing sections north of the Kankakee River. According to
                    the History of 
                            Michigan City
                        
                some members of the Potawatomi tribe aggressively stopped the surveyors as
                    they chose noncontiguous lands. The surveyors withdrew, partly to avoid conflict, partly because
                    they had not received approval from the federal government for sections that they had already
                    chosen, and also because even in 1831 they anticipated the total removal of the Indians from
                        Indiana.40 Polke consulted further with 
                        Tipton
                    , seeking his assistance in being allowed to make the selections. 
                        Tipton
                     responded that 
                        any further selection of lands out of the Indian country, without their approbation will
                            distress them, but as no alternative is now left for the State … I will convene
                            the Indians, and if possible obtain their consent for you to make other selections.
                        The 
                                United States
                             will no doubt pay the Indians for these lands, if they were not embraced in the
                            former cession made by them. I will thank you to attend the council.41
                  
                     This council was held at Potawatomi Mills on the Tippecanoe River on
                    August 20, 1831. By August 31 the negotiators succeeded in getting partial consent from the Indians
                    to select the required number of sections north of the Kankakee near the 
                        Michigan
                     Territory line.42
            
            Another council was held on September 4. After considerable discussion the Potawatomis agreed not to
                    molest surveyors in their territory but stated unequivocally that they did not consent to selections
                    of land in Indian country. The Indians also still objected to granting land for the road south of
                    the 
                        Wabash
                    .43
                    The History of
                    
                  
                     39 Robertson and Riker, 
                        
                                    Tipton
                                 Papers, II, 366-67.
                  
                     40 Oglesbee and Hale, History of 
                                    Michigan City
                                , 58, 73; Prather, "Construction of the 
                                Michigan
                             Road," 245-46.
                  
                     41 Robertson and Riker, 
                        
                                    Tipton
                                 Papers, II, 419.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., 451-52; Indiana, House Journal
                            (1831–1832), Appendix D, pp. 2-3.
                  
                            43
                            Ibid
                        
               
                    
                    
                        
                            Michigan City
                        
                     provides an interesting account of the September 4 council meeting. According to the authors a
                    few young chiefs, in-cited by certain traders who wished to postpone the removal of the Indians as
                    long as possible, claimed that the Treaty of Mississinewa was intended to convey only a strip of
                    land for the road and one contiguous section for each mile from Lake 
                        Michigan
                     to the 
                        Wabash
                    . Jean B. Chandonnais, a Potawatomi of mixed blood, easily extricated the negotiators
                    from their difficulty. "He procured an ox and a great quantity of whisky from the public
                    authorities and invited the tribesmen to a feast, and in the presence of the ensuing barbecue and
                    spree the white man's view was accepted and the work [choosing sections in Indian
                    territory] was allowed to proceed."44
            
            Eventually 170,580.24 acres of land were surveyed and granted for the building of the 
                        Michigan
                     Road, actually a few more than the section per mile would have called for.45
            
            Not only was the language in which Article II was couched open to varying interpretations it was also
                    unrealistic. It is difficult, for example, to imagine the Potawatomi tribe's having an
                    attachment to the American people or the soil of Indiana as such or to believe that a road would
                    benefit them much in their travels. In any event, any value accruing lasted only twelve years until
                    the time of their departure from Indiana in 1838. It is further ironic that part of the
                    Potawatomis' final journey from the state was down the 
                        Michigan
                     Road, accompanied by Tipton, a commissioner for the government at the Treaty of
                    Mississinewa in 1826.46
            
            Provision for eighty-six individual reserves amounting to some 29,600 acres was also included in the
                    1826 treaty. Historian Paul 
                  
                     44 Oglesbee and Hale, History of 
                                    Michigan City
                                , 58, 73. Jean Baptiste Chandonnais's father was a French fur
                            trader and his mother a Potawatomi. He was well educated and later was a leading citizen in
                            the development of 
                                La Porte County
                            . After getting some experience in John Jacob Astor's fur company, he
                            then became involved in the fur business himself. He was credited with saving lives of
                            Americans at the massacre of Fort 
                                Dearborn
                             in 1812, was in the 
                                United States
                             military, and was invited to several Indian councils because of his ability to
                            influence his tribal leaders. He also served as a scout for Lewis Cass. Ibid., 56; Robertson
                            and Riker, 
                        
                                    Tipton
                                 Papers, II, 561n. His name is variously spelled as
                            "Chandonnai," "Chandonia,"
                            "Chandronet," "Shaderny," "Shadney,"
                            etc.
                  
                     45 Prather, "Construction of the 
                                Michigan
                             Road," 277; Indiana, Documentary Journal (1840),
                            570.
                  
                     46 On the first night of the Potawatomis' departure from
                            Indiana for the West in 1838, 
                                Tipton
                             and between seven hundred and eight hundred Indians camped near the
                                Tippecanoe River at the Indian village of Chippewa after leaving
                            Twin Lakes in 
                                Marshall County
                             on September 2, 1838. They continued south to 
                                Logansport
                             on the 
                                Michigan
                             Road and then headed west. 
                                Tipton
                             turned his charges over to William Polke at the 
                                Illinois
                             border. Robertson and Riker, 
                        
                                    Tipton
                                 Papers, III, 687, 690, 691, 692, 699-700, 710-11, passim. For an early account of the Potawatomis' removal over the
                            "Trail of Death," see Daniel McDonald, Removal of the
                                Pottawattomie Indians from Northern Indiana (
                                Plymouth
                            , Ind., 1899); and Edmunds, Potawatomis, 240-72.
               
                     Wallace Gates, in the introduction to the John
                        Tipton Papers, wrote that these reserves were "granted to chiefs, half-breeds,
                    fifty-eight Indian scholars, and a few white men with claims against the Indians."47 Some of the recipients fit more than one of the categories. George Cicott,
                    although French-Canadian, was considered a chief following his marriage to a Potawatomi. His reserve
                    eventually was laid out as 
                        Logansport
                    . Joseph Bertrand, Joseph Barron, and William Burnett married sisters and a daughter of
                    Topinbee, a principal chief. All of these, by having this close contact with the Indians, became
                    proficient in the Potawatomi language and served as interpreters. Barron had served as a messenger
                    for William Henry Harrison, and Bertrand established an important trade center at the junction of
                    the St. Joseph River and the Old Sauk Trail across northern Indiana.
                    Louison's mother was a Potawatomi as was Zachariah Cicott's wife. Eliza C.
                    Kercheval was listed as receiving a reserve. She was not identified in the treaty, but it was
                    probably no coincidence that Benjamin B. Kercheval was one of the signers and identified as a
                    subagent. Brothers William and Henry Conner signed the treaty as interpreters and received reserves,
                    as did another brother, James. The Conner family had been raised among the Christian Delawares and
                    had served Indiana, state and territory, in many capacities including negotiations with the Indians.
                    Hyacinthe Lasselle, an Indian trader and the son of a British Indian agent, also received a reserve.
                    Of him 
                        Tipton
                     wrote in a memorandum concerning the treaty of 1826, "Genl Hyacynth Las-sell
                    has resided and traded with the Indians this land was considered payt for debts due to
                        him—"48
            
            As Indian agent, 
                        Tipton
                     had countless responsibilities concerning the reserves. His duties began when a treaty
                    was pending, especially if he was also commissioner as in 1826. A letter from William Polke, who
                    later became commissioner for the 
                        Michigan
                     Road, is typical of the requests for land. 
                        Mr. Derome [Charles H. De 
                                Rome
                            ] attends the treaty in Hopes of obtaining a Reservation in behalf of his wife,
                            any advice or assistance you Can Render him not Incompatible with your Duty as Commissioner
                            of the U.S. will be an act of Benevolence, as Mr. Derome is in but moderate Circumstances
                            and has four Helples Children Dependant on his Exertions your attention to his Case will be
                            acknowledged as a Favour by your friend and Humble [servant]49
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     47 Robertson and Riker, 
                        
                                    Tipton
                                 Papers, I, 18.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., 410n, 341n, 324n, 616n; ibid., II, 252; Charles N. Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness: John and William Conner (Indiana
                                Historical Society Publications, Vol. XII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1937); Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties, II,
                            276-77.
                  
                     49 Ibid., I, 573-74. The children of Maria Christiana De 
                                Rome
                             were granted one section of land between the Maumee and 
                                St. Joseph
                             rivers by the treaty of 1826. Ibid., 574n.
               
                    
                    
                        Tipton
                     assigned many of the reserves, giving several sections to a chief at his village site
                    or to individuals where they had already located homes or businesses. Often he was asked to choose a
                    site on behalf of widows or orphans. Such a one was evident in a letter to 
                        Tipton
                     from John Johnson: "Bad health has prevented me from visiting the 
                        Wabash
                     Country for the purpose of selecting the land granted … to the orphan
                    children of my late Brother [the father had been killed by the Potawatomis] … you had
                    made a choice … subject to my approval."50 Sometimes the
                    Indian agent refused the first choice: "I have to inform you that I cannot locate that
                    Section [for your wife] it having been surveyed and selected by the Comr of the State of Indiana for
                    the use of 
                        Michigan
                     road. I would thank you to make another selection[.]"51 It
                    was also Tip-ton's duty to prepare a conveyance of titles of chosen reserves and forward it
                    with his recommendation to the president of the 
                        United States
                     for approval. Sale of a reserve was possible only with the agent's assurance
                    that the Indian had received a fair price. This often led to some King Solomon judgments, as when
                    Harriet Isaacs requested that her land be leased to some "industrious prudent man"
                    despite the fact that her brother-in-law wanted the reserve sold.52 It is
                    unknown what 
                        Tipton
                     meant when he told Cass, superintendent of Indian affairs, "Your letter of the
                    19th enables me to give a different answer to Mr. Koons who has been for months calling on me to
                    know whether he can purchase the Bondie Land.—" Whatever it was, it caused him
                    to say, "I would have much reason to rejoice if the Indian reserves were all sold and
                    transferred to other hands."53
            
            Probably the most complicated land-sale situation occurred over section 5 of township 37 north, range
                    5 east, which is the junction of the 
                        Elkhart
                     and 
                        St. Joseph
                     rivers. George Crawford and Lewis Davis had built a mill and made other improvements on
                    that site. In May, 1830, a Mr. Godfroy told 
                        Tipton
                     that he was choosing a reservation of three sections for "Morain" and
                    wanted the above site. 
                        Tipton
                     told him he would have to pay a fair price for the improvements. George Graham,
                    commissioner of the General Land Office, confirmed "Moran's" right to
                    have this section.54 Crawford was hoping that squatters' rights would
                    count for something. On July 21, 1830, he wrote: "If it was not for Godfry we could injoy
                    the benefit of Preemtion[.] … He (Davis) made proposals to him in 
                  
                     50
                            Ibid., II, 120.
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., 375.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., 370.
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., 357.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., 275-76, 303, 321-22. Research on this event is complicated by the
                            fact that Mr. Godfroy is referred to by Tipton as "Richard," but the
                            gentleman himself used "J. J." in a signature; nor is it helpful to find
                            five different spellings for "Morain."
               
                     every shape and manner that he could think of but could not do
                    any thing with him.… Gen. we will compensate you liberally for all the trouble that you
                    are put to wether we get it or not[.] We are desireous that you do all you can for us."55 The following January J. J. Godfroy wrote 
                        Tipton
                     that "Morin" was selling the land to Stephen and Rufus Downing, that
                    he wanted part of it, and that it was not true as Crawford stated that he had purchased the land for
                        $150.56
            
            In April, Tipton was still trying to put a period on the entire transaction. He wrote to a
                    commissioner of the General Land Office, Elijah Hayward: 
                        The Indian Moran came to my office to day and informed me that he had sold his land to Doctor
                            Beardsley for $800, and requested me to procure the Presidents approval to his deed.—[
                                Tipton
                             increased the price to $1,500.] The Indian also said, that he had
                            sold this same land some years ago to a Mr. Richard Godfroy of the 
                                Michigan
                             Territory, for One dollar per acre, and that Mr. G. [thus far had] paid him a
                            horse and an old 
                                Dearborn
                             waggon with $112 …, and [to further complicate
                            everything] A Mr. L. G. Thompson of 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , has caused a Deed to be prepared conveying this same section to himself, and
                            placed it in the hands of an Interpreter with the promise of a handsome present, if he, the
                            Interpreter, would go privately to the Indian, and procure his signature.…57
                  
                     Beardsley got the site; Godfroy got his $112 back. The last statement of 
                        Tipton
                    's letter is not surprising: 
                        You will perceive by the foregoing statement that this reservation has produced both
                            excitement and fraud; this may be truly said of other reservations.—No one would
                            believe what intrigues and frauds are attempted in regard to conveying reservations, unless
                            they were near the scene of action.—I would respecfully [sic] recommend that the
                            President would cause reservations that are hereafter to be sold, to be advertized in the
                            News-papers and sold at public auction.—This would shield the Department of
                            trouble, and the officers of unjust imputations.—58
                  
                    
            
            Four years elapsed before the reserves for the fifty-eight students of the Carey Mission School were
                    awarded. The Carey Mission in 
                        Michigan
                     Territory and the Choctaw Academy in 
                        Kentucky
                     were recipients of treaty benefits having to do with the education or civilizing of
                    Indian children.
            Carey Mission, near present-day Niles, 
                        Michigan
                    , was operated by Isaac McCoy, a Baptist minister who had served as a missionary to the
                    Indians in Indiana for a number of years. In 1804 McCoy and his wife Christina had come to 
                        Vincennes
                     in Indiana Territory seeking a pastorate. There they observed the Indians
                    "systematically stripped of their annuities, their furs, and even their weapons and
                    clothing, being left in a pitiable and helpless condition." 
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., 306-307.
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., 385-87.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., 404-405.
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., 405.
               
                     After ministering to congregations at Silver Creek Baptist
                    Church in 
                        Clark County
                     and the prestigious Maria Creek Baptist Church near 
                        Vincennes
                    , the McCoys in 1818 opened an Indian mission on Raccoon Creek north of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , moving from there to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     approximately two years later.59
            
            When the McCoys arrived in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , they were provided with a deserted government barracks for a church and school. By the
                    end of the first year over forty Indian children as well as several French and English students were
                    being taught and cared for. Financing their missionary work and still providing for their own large
                    family was a constant problem for the McCoys. In 1819 Congress had passed an act providing funds for
                    the "purpose of providing against the further decline and final extinction of the Indian
                    tribes … and for introducing among them the habits and arts of civilization
                    …," and in 1821 Lewis Cass, superintendent of Indian affairs, allotted McCoy
                    $450 for clothing and food for his Indian scholars. At times the McCoys received
                    temporary support from the 
                        Kentucky
                     Baptists and from individuals or congregations in 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    . Most people of that time, however, had little concern or interest in the Indians and
                    thought problems regarding them could be more quickly solved by removal of the Indians across the 
                        Mississippi
                    .60
            
            Despite his financial problems McCoy felt that he had some success in his missionary efforts at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . He wrote of the Indians: 
                        Some person must reside near them, where he may contact a familiar acquaintance with them,
                            converse with them frequently, set them an example of industry, and take advantage of their
                            hunger and cold in a winter storm, so that their privations shall subserve their best
                            interests. Let the unhappy creatures sometimes realize the comforts of a warm room on a
                            stormy night; let them be taught by actual experience, as well as by persuasive arguments,
                            the great advantage to be derived from cattle, hogs, & c.… In a similar
                            way could domestic economy be impressed on the females in the school, and on their mothers
                            at home.61
                  
                    
            
            The McCoys remained at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     for approximately two years but then decided that they could better serve the Indians
                    by 
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., 308n; James Polke, "Some Memoirs of the Polke, Piety,
                            McCoy, Mc-Quaid, and Mathes Families," Indiana Magazine of
                            History, X (March, 1914), 92-94; John F. Cady, "McCoy's Mission to
                            the Indians of Indiana and 
                                Michigan
                            ," Indiana History Bulletin, XVI (February, 1939),
                            100-13 (quotation p. 105); Isaac McCoy, History of Baptist Indian Missions:
                                Embracing Remarks on the Former and Present Condition of the Aboriginal Tribes; Their
                                Settlement within the Indian Territory, and Their Future Prospects (orig., 
                                Washington
                            , D. C., 1840; reprint, 
                                New York
                            , 1970), vi-viii, 43-44, passim.
                  
                  
                     60 McCoy, History of Baptist Indian Missions, 71-89,
                            153-54, 203-204, 215, 218, passim; U. S., Statutes at Large, III, 516-17;
                            Robertson and Riker, 
                        
                                    Tipton
                                 Papers, I, 307-308; Cady, McCoy's Mission to the
                                Indians, 100-13.
                  
                     61 Isaac McCoy to Baptist Board of Indian Missions, May 7, 1818, in
                                Latter Day Luminary, I (August, 1818), 184; see also ibid., 412,
                            503-504.
               
                    
                    
                  ISAAC MCCOY PROTESTANT MISSIONARY AMONG THE POTAWATOMIS IN
                                INDIANA AND AT CAREY MISSION
                            NEAR PRESENT-DAY NILES, MICHIGAN
                  
                  Courtesy 
                                Kansas State
                             Historical Society, 
                                Topeka
                            ; reproduced from R. David Edmunds, The Potawatomis: Keepers of the Fire (
                                Norman
                            , Okla., 1978), 142.
               
                     being farther away from the corrupting influence of white
                    traders. By the Treaty of 
                        Chicago
                     in 1821 a section of land on the St. Joseph River was granted for
                    Carey Mission, and McCoy was allotted $400 to serve as teacher. He was pleased with the
                    opportunity and there established a school, built a chapel, and converted large numbers of
                    Potawatomis. Seven students from Carey Mission entered the Columbian College in 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., and two were known to be enrolled in a medical school in 
                        Vermont
                    .62
            
            In October of 1826 McCoy and his Indian pupils came to the treaty site at Mississinewa. James M. Ray,
                    the assistant secretary of the proceedings, recorded their attendance. 
                        In the cabin next to ours, the Rev. Mr. McCoy had a large number of Indian scholars from the
                            Baptist mission on the 
                                St. Joseph
                            's, manifesting the results of his faithful labor for several years.
                            The contrast between these, in their fixed attention to their books, while the wild natives
                            of the tribe were yelling, grinning and laughing at them between the cracks of the cabin,
                            but wholly failing the divert them in the least, had the effect of securing a grant of good
                            reservation of land, in the treaty, for the support of the mission.63
                  
                     In actuality, rather than a reserve for the mission, each of fifty-eight pupils was granted
                    a quarter section of land. The 
                        United States
                     Senate questioned this provision in the treaty, but the exemplary deportment of the
                    pupils eventually influenced a positive vote.64 The support of the mission did
                    not really materialize, how-ever. McCoy reported later that the reserves were sold to whites and the
                    proceeds used for food and clothing and were of little good to the grantees or the school.65
            
            The two thousand dollars set aside for education went to the Choctaw Academy of Scott County, 
                        Kentucky
                    . Richard M. Johnson, director of that institution, was a 
                        United States
                     senator and a friend of Tipton. Since 1818 he had been providing lodging and schooling
                    for a number of Choctaw children under the auspices of the 
                        Kentucky
                     Baptist Society. After a treaty with the Choctaws in 1825, Johnson worked out a plan,
                    accepted by the War Department, to establish the academy with the Baptist Board of the General
                    Convention. The treaty in 1825 supplied Johnson's school with six thousand dollars yearly
                    for twenty years. Thomas Henderson was the superintendent of the school, and Johnson handled the
                    finances. Subsequently, the Creeks agreed to appropriate twenty-four thousand dollars to educate
                    some of their children there.66
            
            
               
                  62 McCoy, History of Baptist Indian Missions, 145-51,
                        300-302, 264-71; Cady, McCoy's Mission to the Indians, passim.
               
               
                  63 Helm, History of 
                                Wabash County
                            , 90. See also Robertson and Riker, 
                            Tipton
                         Papers, [, 580, 18, 655; and McCoy, History of Baptist Indian
                            Missions, 289-91.
               
                  64 Robertson and Riker, 
                     
                                Tipton
                             Papers, I, 643, 655.
               
                  65 McCoy, History of Baptist Indian Missions, 290-91;
                        Robertson and Riker, 
                     
                                Tipton
                             Papers, I, 180.
               
                  66 Robertson and Riker, 
                     
                                Tipton
                             Papers, I, 530n, 571-73.
            
            
            In a protracted correspondence Johnson explained to 
                        Tipton
                     the educational arrangements at the academy and urged that similar educational funds be
                    included in treaties in the 
                        Wabash
                     area. Johnson promised to do everything in his power to get 
                        Tipton
                     appointed commissioner of the impending treaties, including speaking to the secretary
                    of war and encouraging fellow political leaders from Indiana to do the same.67
                    After 
                        Tipton
                     had been appointed commissioner for the Mississinewa treaty, Johnson wrote, on
                    September 8, 1826: 
                        As my engagements will prevent my attending, I would suggest that in an article in the treaty
                            a certain Sum be set a part for the purposes of Education, without designation where it
                            shall be expended, but with an understanding, that ten, fifteen, or twenty children of
                            promise be sent to the academy at this place as soon as the treaty is ratifyed, the sum
                            reserved may specify so much annually for education, for so many years or the sum reserved
                            may be in gross & this will enable the nation to send more or less schollars as they
                            please till the fund is exhausted—68
                  
                    
            
            After the ratification of the treaty Johnson urged 
                        Tipton
                     to choose students from eight to nineteen years old and to recommend that they stay at
                    least five years. Allowing two hundred dollars per pupil, nine youths were to be sent, and
                    seventy-five dollars were allowed to help hire an additional teacher at the academy. Johnson also
                    found it necessary to ask for an advance to build a new dining room. He also added, "In
                    case of any future Treaty I hope you will again act as a commissioner & particularly attend
                    to the increase of the literary fund, that we may do something to rescue at least a part of these
                    people from barbarism & annehilation[.]"69
            
            Choosing the youths was not an easy task. A rumor was started that the boys would be used as slaves
                    when sent off to that distant land. Parents refused to allow their sons to leave, and at least one
                    boy refused to go. Several hundred dollars' worth of presents helped induce some parents to
                    change their minds.70 Finally in May of 1827 
                        Tipton
                     set out with seven boys. One was already there (the adopted son of Johnson's
                    brother-in-law), and George Cicott, a trader whose mother was a Potawatomi, was to join him with
                    another. Instead of one prospective student Cicott arrived with three, which was two over the number
                    agreed upon. 
                        Tipton
                     and Cicott continued their journey anyway, hoping to get the additional money from the
                    War Department or, with Cicott's recommendation, from the Indians themselves.71
            
            
               
                        Tipton
                     visited the school a few years later taking some additional boys who were eligible
                    because of a subsequent treaty that 
                  
                     67
                            Ibid., 529-30, 530-31, 571-73.
                  
                     68
                            Ibid., 571-73
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., 647-48, 709-10.
                  
                     70
                            Ibid., 715-16, 721-22.
                  
                     71
                            Ibid., 715-16, 719-20.
               
                     included funds for educating the Indians. He reported to Thomas
                    McKenney, commissioner of Indian affairs of the War Department: "The pottawatomie boys
                    … have done well. the advances they have made is highly creditable … and with
                    regard to their treatement … I find them well satisfyed.…" In the
                    same letter to McKenney 
                        Tipton
                     also suggested that they educate girls: "one educated female will do more good
                    than 2 men to the next generation." He did believe, however, that girls should be educated
                    closer to home.72
            
            Five years later the original pupils at the Choctaw Academy were replaced, and there was some
                    discussion of their learning trades, becoming assistant teachers, or studying law or medicine.
                    Several of the students wrote to 
                        Tipton
                     and seemed to look on him as a father, asking for letters from him and appearing
                    anxious for his visits.73 In this fatherly attitude 
                        Tipton
                     advised the pupils at the academy: 
                        The Indians are no way inferior to us but deficent in knowledge. that knowledge is derived
                            from books instruments and teachers such as are now placed within your reach …
                        obey those teachers set over you be friendly to each other; compleate your Education and
                            return to your respective Nations …
                        nothing could afford me more pleasure than your sucess and happiness.74
                  
                     To Secretary of War Barbour he wrote: 
                        another reason which influenced me to make exertion in the case of my puttowatomie buoys was
                            this.… the creeks and puttowatomies were the first and most desperate enemies
                            against us in the last war. we now have a number of thier buoys becomeing educated and
                            forming friendship in the chocktaw Acady that will only cease with their lives.…
                        The puttowatomies are a powerfull Nation scattered along the waters of the wabash on the Lake
                            and near the 
                                Canada
                             line where British talks and British goods continuelly interrupt thier peace
                            and our security. it is now in our power not only to make them friends but if ever the
                            Indians can be civillized and preserved from utter extermination this must be the proper
                                course.75
                  
                    
            
            
               
                        Tipton
                    's stated goals of friendship and civilization did not exactly occur. The
                    Mississinewa treaty and the resulting 
                        Michigan
                     Road further fractionalized the Indian tribes in northern Indiana. The road and the
                    lands selected to pay for it cut a wedge through Potawatomi territory and discouraged any unity that
                    had existed. The commissioners, in fact, saw this fractionalization as one reason for ratification
                    of the treaty. Although at the time they gave up immediate removal, they recognized: 
                  
                     72
                            Ibid., II, 289-90. It is interesting to note the list of names of the
                            Potawatomi students: two "John Tiptons," a "Colonel
                            McKenney," and a "Thomas Jefferson." Ibid.,
                            290.
                  
                     73
                            Ibid., 645-46. 448-49, 605-606, 612, 620.
                  
                     74
                            Ibid., I, 788.
                  
                     75
                            Ibid., 720-21.
               
                    
                    
                        It was then important that the Indians be separated into bands, by the intervention of our
                            settlements.… We could not purchase any particular district near the centre of
                            the Pattawatamie country; but that tribe freely consented to give us land for the road
                            described in the treaty, and for the settlement along it. Such a road … will
                            sever their possessions, and lead them at no distant day to place their dependence upon
                            agricultural pursuits, or to abandon the country.76
                  
                     Different villages began to meet separately with government officials, selling their land
                    piecemeal for the American trade goods, money, and promises." Many tribesmen could only
                    turn to the Indian agent for provisions to get through the winter and then reluctantly turn westward
                    with the spring. Some who had gone west eventually returned, and some fled to 
                        Canada
                    . Today their descendants live in 
                        Wisconsin
                     and in Shawnee, 
                        Oklahoma
                    , and on small reservations in 
                        Michigan
                     and near Mayetta, 
                        Kansas
                    .78 Their names, such as Pokagon, Winamac, and Metea, are liberally
                    sprinkled over northern Indiana. Increasingly, interest in Potawatomi history and culture is being
                    expressed in museums, festivals, pageants, and educational programs, some of them along the 
                        Michigan
                     Road.
            
               
                  76
                        Ibid., 602.
               
                  77 Edmunds, Potowatomis, 219, 241-42.
               
                  78
                        Ibid., 273-75.
            
         
         
         
            Amos Lemmon's Farm Journals, 1902–1937
            
                    
                        Gerald O. Haffner
                        ∗
                    
                
            A view of rural life in 
                        Harrison County
                    , Indiana, during the first third of the twentieth century can be extracted from three
                    farm journals or record books kept by Amos Lemmon between 1902 and 1937. Although most of the pages
                    are filled with notations concerning bovine behavior, careful gleaning yields a sizable harvest of
                    information. Readers can gain insights into work habits, customs, economics, family life, and
                    general conditions in the Hoosier state during the thirty-five years covered by the volumes.1
            
            Lemmon was one of ten children. His father, John, had come to 
                        Harrison County
                     from 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1825. The father and an-other son served in the General Assembly of Indiana. Amos
                    was born in 
                        Franklin
                     Township on August 3, 1850. He attended the local public schools and received some
                    additional education in 
                        Bartholomew County
                     at Hartsville Academy, which had been established by the United Brethren church. He
                    obtained a license and taught school for a while. If many personal accounts and reminiscences can be
                    believed, teaching in the common schools of that time could be an occupational hazard; but,
                    evidently, Lemmon escaped personal injury within the walls of reading, writing, and arithmetic.
                    Earlier in life he had not been so fortunate. A wood-chopping 
                  
                     ∗ Gerald O. Haffner is professor emeritus of history,
                            Indiana University South-east, New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana. Photographs accompanying the article were reproduced by Vaughn E.
                            Winslow and the Indiana University Southeast Audio-Visual Department.
                  
                     1 Amos Lemmon, Farmer Directory and Account Books, 3 volumes (Indiana
                            University Southeast Archives, New 
                                Albany
                            , Indiana). Before these journals and account books were given to Indiana
                            University Southeast in 1982, two pages were removed from the volumes. By whom or for what
                            reason these historical records were thus compromised is unknown.
               
                    
                    
                  AMOS LEMMON c. 1897
                  Courtesy Helen Fried Reynolds.
               
                     accident maimed his right hand for life—a deformity
                    that was concealed always by a black stocking.2
            
            For twelve years, beginning in 1871, Lemmon was a store clerk at 
                        Rockport
                     in 
                        Spencer County
                    , Indiana, downstream from his home. In 1877 he married Caddie Sharpe, who lived in the
                    town where he worked, and they set up housekeeping in 
                        Rockport
                    . On one Sun-day afternoon in 1882 Amos left the house for a time. Caddie was washing
                    the dirty dishes from the noon meal. When he returned, his wife had disappeared. The body was
                    eventually found in the cistern that was beneath a kitchen pantry. Evidently Caddie in-tended to
                    hang the wet dishcloths in the pantry to dry; but the flooring over the cistern gave way, and the
                    waters took her life.
            By the next year, 1883, Lemmon had returned to Corydon in 
                        Harrison County
                     with Caddie's silver napkin ring; a lock of her golden hair, which he kept in
                    a locked box; and the grief, which was locked in his heart. Yet life continues, and gainful
                    employment is usually necessary. A brother, D. F. Lemmon, offered Amos the position of deputy clerk
                    of 
                        Harrison County
                    —a job that lasted five years. He was appointed a deputy in the
                    auditor's office in 1890; however, he resigned sometime later to enter the dairy
                    business—cows and bulls. In politics Lemmon was a Democrat. He ran for the office of 
                        Harrison County
                     clerk in 1892 and, according to the Cory-don Democrat, was "elected by the
                    largest majority given to any Democratic candidate on the ticket."3
                    The Illustrated Atlas and History of 
                            Harrison County
                        , Indiana, states that by 1906, the date of the atlas's publication,
                    Lemmon had served fourteen years as clerk.4
            
            Lemmon's strong ties with the Democratic party made him widely known throughout the county.
                    He was a director of the 
                        Harrison County
                     Fair Association. At times he was also its secretary and its treasurer. He was a member
                    of the board of directors of Corydon's Savings and Loan Association. For years he was a
                    member of the Independent Order of Odd Fellows. Although his father was an ordained preacher of the
                    Baptist persuasion, Lemmon attended 
                  
                     2 Biographical information concerning Amos Lemmon and his family can
                            be found in the Corydon Democrat, January 1, 1897, Souvenir Edition,
                            1856–1897; F. A. Bulleit, comp., Illustrated Atlas and History of 
                                    Harrison County
                                , Indiana… (Corydon, Ind., 1906), 70; Rebecca A. Shepherd et
                            al., comps and eds., A Biographical Directory of the Indiana General
                            Assembly, Vol. I: 1816–1899 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1980), 233; Cedar Hill Cemetery Records (In the care of Rick Beard, caretaker,
                            and James Ellis, assistant caretaker, Corydon, Indiana); "State Historical Almanac
                            for 1951," Indiana History Bulletin, XXVII (December, 1950),
                            228-29; Helen Fried Reynolds, "Genealogical Sketch," manuscript (In
                            possession of Gerald O. Haffner). Reynolds is the granddaughter of John P. Sonner, the
                            father of Dora Lemmon, Amos Lemmon's second wife.
                  
                     3 Corydon Democrat, January 1, 1897, Souvenir
                            Edition.
                  
                     4 Bulleit, Illustrated Atlas, 70.
               
                    
                    
                  AMOS AND MEDORA LEMMON, NELSON, KENTUCKY, 1911
               
                    
                  AMOS AND MEDORA LEMMON c. 1925
                  Courtesy Helen Fried Reynolds.
               
                     the Presbyterian church. During the years when he was
                    practicing politics, attending lodge meetings, and going to church services, Lemmon was also
                    acquiring a second wife, plus a farm that was located two-and-one-half miles southeast of Corydon.
            In fact, Lemmon had not been back in 
                        Harrison County
                     very long after Caddie's death before he realized that he needed another
                    helpmate. A party at New 
                        Middletown
                     provided the romantic back-drop and the right woman. Upon seeing "a small
                    lovely red-haired lady," Medora (Dora) Sonner, and being smitten by Cupid's arrow,
                    Lemmon reportedly said that he was going to marry her. The matrimonial knot was tied on June 15,
                    1884. She was twenty-one (b. 1863; d. 1951), and he was approaching thirty-four. A newspaper source
                    states that by 1897 three children had been born to this union; however, two only were living at
                    that time—John Hardin (b. 1889; d. 1975) and 
                        Georgia
                     Lemmon Vogt (b. 1888; d. 1973).5 The move to the farm occurred on
                    April 11, 1904. Amos continued his duties at the 
                        Harrison County
                     Courthouse and, each morning, left a lengthy list of chores for his wife to do. She had
                    to milk six to ten cows; drive them to pasture; take care of the calves, dogs, and cats; watch the
                    children; and manage a multitude of household tasks. It is no wonder that Dora, being constantly
                    overworked, lost her patience. On one occasion, having had her fill of daily back-breaking work,
                    Dora lashed out with a barnyard language that stopped her petrified husband in his tracks.
                    Apparently, he had never dreamed that his diminutive Dora posessed a smidgen of such ribald
                    assertiveness. The farm record books do not reveal whether Lemmon ever changed his domineering
                    demeanor and attitude to-ward his wife. Generally, men of that time did not.
            The farm records do reveal some interesting expenditures for shoes and clothing. In 1902 Amos spent
                    770 for a new dress for his wife, 450 to get Hardin's shoes half-soled, 550 for mending 
                        Georgia
                    's shoes, and $3.00 for a new pair of shoes for himself. In 1905
                    Hardin got a new suit and hat that cost $6.00, while 
                        Georgia
                    's new dress and trimmings for it came to $4.35. During these early
                    years items purchased from the grocery store included sugar, salt, black pepper, salmon, oysters,
                    buttermilk, bran, meal, flour, rice, meat, raisins, oranges, crackers, maple molasses, and coffee.
                    Matches and "coal oil" (kerosene) were bought to start the fires in the stoves and
                    to light the kerosene lamps. How much talent 
                        Georgia
                     had is not known; nevertheless, she took singing lessons which cost $1.50
                    each. If Dora paid for the lessons out of the egg money, about ten dozen eggs were needed for one
                    lesson. Hoosier farm families in 1905 were getting 12c to 150 a dozen for eggs. They received 17c to
                    200 for a pound of butter and 80 a pound for hens. Dora sold one lot of pre-serves and jelly for
                    which she received 75c.
            
               
                  5 Cedar Hill Cemetery Records.
            
            
            
               AMOS LEMMON (SECOND FROM RIGHT) IN HARRISON COUNTY CLERK'S OFFICE, APRIL 11, 1916
               Courtesy Frederick P. Griffin.
            
            
            
               LEMMON FAMILY FROM LEFT: JOHN HARDIN, MEDORA, AMOS, GEORGIA
               
               Courtesy Helen Fried Reynolds.
            
            
            
               LEMMON FARMHOUSE, HARRISON COUNTY, INDIANA
               
               Courtesy Helen Fried Reynolds.
            
            
            Many of the daily entries in the journals and record books tell about field-and-garden activities:
                        
                        Sowed corn, rye, millet, wheat, cow peas, oats, sugar corn, and soybeans [by the late 1920s].
                        Set out raspberries, sweet potatoes, and strawberry plants.
                        Planted potatoes, mellons, cantelopes, kale, turnips, beets and squash.
                        Took care of plum, apple, peach trees and grape vines.
                    
            
            For pasture and hay the Lemmons spread lime and sowed timothy, bluegrass, sudan grass, and alfalfa;
                    thus, they "cut alfalfa," "took in hay," "put up 4 tons
                    of straw," and "shredded fodder" for their livestock, which included
                    cattle, sheep, and hogs. Of course, a team of horses was standard for the early part of the
                    twentieth century. Obviously, much grain and roughage was grown on the farm; nevertheless, some
                    supplements for the livestock and poultry had to be purchased. Those supplements included chicken
                    feed, laying mash, oyster shells (for chickens), and "feed and salt for animals."
                    Some of those well-fed barnyard creatures were selected for the Lemmons' table because the
                    journals tell about the butchering of pigs, hogs, and cattle.
            The pages of the journals are filled with the events and activities associated with the farm animals.
                    Lemmon took some prize cows to the 
                        Harrison County
                     fair for showing. The big red sow gave birth to eight pigs. Nannie had twin lambs. The
                    hens were hatching their baby chicks. One prospective mother hen selected a strange nesting place:
                    "set hen, in, Toilet." Josephine had kittens. On February 9, 1935, Lemmon
                    "altered Pigs" (the polite way of saying "castrated"). Princess
                    "dropped" heifer calf by Stockwell. Pride was bred to Dempsey, who had a ring put
                    in his nose on October 3, 1925.
            All of the Lemmons' cows and bulls had names, which did much to personalize each animal.
                    Thus, readers become acquained with Ruth, Lulu, Hazel, Ruby, Isabelle, 
                        Kentucky
                     Maid, Flossie, and Lady Lee. These cows, and all of the others, were kept for milk
                    production and breeding: "Fern in heat, not bred, would not stand." The bulls were
                    called upon not only to service the cows on Lemmon's farm but also all those that the
                    neighbors brought in. Some of their names—Ruler, Senator, Prince, Victor, Don, Bud,
                    Socks, and Lad—possibly echoed a modicum of their male proficiency.
            In addition to the daily and seasonal tasks the work on a farm goes on and on. General maintenance
                    and gradual improvements are all a part of rural life. Lemmon's record books mention this
                    type of activity. For instance, the walls of the cistern were given a coat of cement to prevent them
                    from leaking; a roof on the wood-house was finished; an addition to the barn was constructed; and a
                    pond was dug in the barn lot.
            Because the elements played such a vital role in agrarian prosperity or despair, every farmer kept an
                    eye on the weather. Lemmon  was no exception. In August, 1911,
                    he noted, "Rains came after a long dry spell." Other pithy comments about the
                    weather reveal that the farm record keeper at various times had to stop threshing because of rain,
                    saw the season's first frost, experienced the "greatest snow for years,"
                    and shivered in twenty-two-below-zero temperatures. All newspapers of the period printed much
                    information about the bitter winter of 1917–1918. Lemmon penned a succinct description,
                    "Coldest weather ever known by any person living," and the freezing temperatures
                    mandated his cutting more wood to keep the stoves burning full blast.
            Visiting with friends, relatives, and neighbors was an important feature of rural life in the early
                    1900s. Lemmon's notation for August 13, 1905, catalogs the number of visitors at the
                    family's home, and on Amos's birthday in 1920 twenty people came to the farm.
                    Hardin's and Georgia's visits home were events to be re-corded in the journals.
                    For example, Hardin came from 
                        Chicago
                     at Christmas in 1925 and gave his parents a radio. Sunday basket dinners at the church
                    or local meeting grounds were enjoyable occasions. And June 15, 1934, had to be a red-letter day. It
                    was Dora's and Amos's golden wedding anniversary.
            Local, national, and world news are all reflected in the pages of the three journals. Neighbors and
                    other Harrison Countians are mentioned—especially when they died, were shot accidentally,
                    committed suicide, had a stroke, or were killed by a train. Events of the time influenced the lives
                    of the Lemmons. Hardin entered the army in December, 1917, during World War I and returned
                    "at 2 o'clock a.m." on September 14, 1919. Amos bought Liberty Bonds and
                    heard rumors that the 
                        German
                     kaiser had abdicated. When peace was declared on November 11, 1918, Lemmon was able to
                    write, "4:30 a.m. received telephone [message] of Peace Terms signed at 1:30 a.m."
            The closing of banks ("only 5% available at Corydon Banks"), President
                    Franklin D. Roosevelt, the Banking Holiday, and the conditions of the economy concerned everybody
                    during the Great Depression of the 1930s. Lemmon's account books illustrate some of the
                    harsh realities. Eggs were 8c a dozen, butter was 11c a pound, and "top" hogs
                    brought just 3c a pound. This was a great contrast to the high prices of the World War I era, during
                    which, according to Amos's records, butter rose to 50c a pound and eggs were 61c a dozen.
            Mundane prices and national events, however, do not take precedence over concerns about accidents and
                    poor health. In 1914 Amos mentioned that he fell and broke his left arm. Four years later he penned,
                    "Fell from wagon and broke my hand." By 1923 he was having trouble with his eyes
                    ("Went to 
                        Jeffersonville
                     about my eyes"). Someone has written in the margin of the journals that Amos
                    went blind later in life. Lemmon's penmanship—never too good—  showed steady deterioration. Amos worried about the
                    "flu going around" in 1932 and about his and Dora's being sick during
                    January and February of 1934. Amos Lemmon died on March 12, 1935; Dora in 1951; 
                        Georgia
                     in 1973; and Hardin in 1975. All are buried in Corydon's Cedar Hill
                        Cemetery.6
            
            Amos, as he wrote his daily entries in his farm journals, probably did not think about preserving a
                    historical record for the years 1902 to 1937. Nevertheless, this was what he did; and, by his so
                    doing, later generations have the opportunity to understand a little better the rural life of his
                    time.
            
               
                  6
                        Ibid.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Magic 
                            Middletown
                        
               . By Dwight W. Hoover. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, in association with Historic 
                        Muncie
                    , Inc., 1986. Pp. 181. Illustrations, bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $29.95; paperbound, $14.95.)
            During the last ten years publishers have disseminated a rash of illustrated history books containing
                    scores of photographs combined with a general history of the community or area being documented. The
                    primary purpose of these efforts is to sell nostalgia, not necessarily to provide a scholarly
                    historical analysis. Magic 
                            Middletown
                        
               , a history of 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, in the 1920s, is not just another picture book, however. It is a serious
                    attempt by Dwight W. Hoover to use photographs in the same way that historians have utilized more
                    traditional original materials.
            More specifically, Hoover is attempting to use the recently salvaged collection of 
                        Muncie
                     photographs acquired by the Bracken Library at Ball State University and taken by
                    photographer W. Arthur Swift either to confirm or refute the series of generalizations about 
                        Muncie
                     made by Robert and Helen Lynd in their classic book 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                    . For example, the Lynds contended that by the 1920s 
                        Muncie
                     had become completely integrated with the national economy, thus losing its character
                    as a "county seat town" that served as the hub of a local distribution network.
                    According to Hoover, however, the visual evidence indicates that at least in the area of food
                    production 
                        Muncie
                     was still independent from the national economy. Another interesting insight garnered
                    from the Swift photographs concerns the role of women. Statistical evidence suggests that by the
                    decade of the 1920s more and more women were leaving the home for jobs in industry. Photographic
                    evidence reveals that, in 
                        Muncie
                     at least, they appeared to be taking their traditional roles with them by working in
                    kitchens, bakeries, cleaning establishments, and similar businesses.
            Hoover's conclusions from his survey of the Swift collection are incisive and based on a
                    healthy respect for the things that photo-graphs cannot show. He quite rightly notes that Swift, as
                    a commercial photographer, only took photographs that people commissioned him to take. Consequently, 
                        Muncie
                    's lower classes, particularly its black citizens, are mostly invisible. On the
                    other hand, he concludes that few interior photographs of factories were taken because there was
                    little demand for them when it is more 
                    
                  THE INTERIOR OF THE INDIANA BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY, 215 EAST JACKSON, MUNCIE, INDIANA, PHOTOGRAPHED SOMETIME BETWEEN 1922 AND 1925. THE WOMEN'S
                                REVERENT POSE AND THE AMERICAN
                                FLAG SUGGEST AN ARMISTICE DAY COMMEMORATION.
                  Courtesy Center for 
                                Middletown
                             Studies, Bracken Library, Ball State University, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana; reproduced from Dwight W. Hoover, Magic 
                                Middletown
                             (Blooming-ton, 1986), 42.
               
                     likely that few were taken because the primitive state of
                    photo-graphic technology precluded most interior photography at that time. Additionally, the book
                    would be better organized if the photographs were numbered so that they could be coordinated with
                    the text. On the whole, however, Magic 
                        Middletown
                     contains numerous pictures covering a broad spectrum of 
                        Muncie
                     life in the 1920s and including some of the most stunning and intriguing photo-graphs
                    of the Ku Klux Klan available anywhere.
            Overall, this book is necessary reading for anyone interested in photographic analysis of the past
                    and particularly for anyone interested in the 1920s when the Klan paraded in the streets, the
                    automobile emerged as a dominant force in American culture, and 
                        Muncie
                    , whether Munsonians like it or not, was fixed by the Lynds "as a model
                    American city."
            Tim Peterson, Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Jokelore: Humorous Folktales From Indiana. By Ronald L. Baker. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1986. Pp. xliii, 234. Notes to introduction, sources and
                    notes. Clothbound, $29.95; paperbound, $9.95.)
            The Indiana State University Folklore Archives collection, be-gun in 1967, has become a major
                    resource for the study of the survival, and the scope, of oral traditions in Indiana. In this volume
                    Ronald L. Baker has drawn heavily on the collection's tape recordings and transcripts to
                    explore Hoosier humor, offering a selection of over 350 tales and jokes that attest to the continued
                    appeal of humor in folk studies.
            A few of the examples reflect the rural spirit that many readers probably associate with the folk
                    tradition, including Rufe, the man who was such a liar that his friends had to call his hogs. The
                    vast majority of the items, however, are products of an urban world. Grouped in twenty-three
                    sections covering everything from shaggy dogs to schoolteachers, the tales concentrate upon such
                    staples as religion, sex, and ethnicity. Baker's examples show how often humor is still
                    used to explore taboos or to define one's group against outsiders. Ethnic remarks directed
                    toward Jews, blacks, Irish, Poles, and especially Kentuckians are almost a third of the entries.
                    Frequently crude, and occasionally cruel, these verbatim records stand in sharp contrast to the more
                    literary reeditings found in many earlier collections—a point brought sharply home by the
                    inclusion of thirty examples from the materials assembled fifty years ago by the Works Progress
                    Administration (WPA). A majority of entries date from the years between 1968 and 1972 and
                    occasionally include specific references to events and personalities of that time.
            
            Baker's introduction gives a useful summary of the current de-bates about the proper form of
                    folklore studies. It offers an especially good discussion of the role of context and presentation
                    for folk tellers and thus suggests that popular published works, like Jokelore, may themselves soon
                    be supplanted by audiovisual collections. All of the items in the volume were collected from Indiana
                    residents, but relatively few entries are set in recognizable Hoosier locations or are, apart from
                    the 
                        Kentucky
                     jokes, concerned with distinctive Hoosier traits. The state's special passions
                    for sports and politics receive very little attention. The book is instead a celebration of
                    Indiana's participation in national and international traditions of humor as well as an
                    earthy introduction to modern Indiana folkways.
            George W. Geib, 
                  
                            Butler
                         University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Chicago
                        's Pride: The Stockyards, Packingtown, and Environs in the Nineteenth
                        Century. By Louise Carroll Wade. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1987. Pp. xvi, 423. Notes, maps, essay on sources, illustrations, index.
                    $32.50.)
            In 1906 Upton Sinclair's The Jungle electrified the nation with its indictment of 
                        Chicago
                    's meat-packing industry. Exposing unsafe and unsanitary working conditions, it
                    contributed to the climate of opinion that demanded passage of federal meat inspection laws. One
                    would expect a book on Packingtown to address the is-sues raised by Sinclair's novel. This
                    is not, however, the purpose of Louise Carroll Wade's book. Its focus is on how Lake
                    Township, located south of 
                        Chicago
                     and west of Hyde Park, was transformed between 1865, when the Union Stockyards was
                    constructed, and 1888, when it was annexed by 
                        Chicago
                    .
            While 
                  
                            Chicago
                        's Pride contains informative chapters on the rise of the livestock
                    trade and its connection to the meat-packing industry, Wade's depiction of packingtown
                    barons as hard-working, civic-minded industrial statesmen seems overly flattering.
                    "Creative, productive labor, not the acquisition of dollars, was their goal and their
                    measurement of their own success," she claims (p. 220). On the other hand, labor leaders
                    come off, for the most part, as myopic, while rural critics are disparaged as "jealous
                    hayseeds" (p. 92). Claiming that industry leaders were concerned about prevention of
                    cruelty to animals, Wade writes, "Livestock crossed the northern plains in greater style
                    than ordinary passengers" (p. 191). In line with the booster slogan that she has chosen for
                    her title, Wade argues that the hundreds of thousands of yearly tourists regarded Packingtown as an
                    eighth wonder of the world.
            It was John Stephen Wright who first predicted that the day would come when no part of the animal
                    would be wasted. While Wade's research is prodigious in showing the tremendous
                    technological  changes that made this prophecy a reality, there
                    is little examination of how modernization affected labor conditions. Wade notes that workers chafed
                    at the ten-hour day and periodic layoffs and wage cuts; but she claims that, compared to other
                    industrial workers, their earnings and job security were good.
            Wade's central thesis is developed in a section called "Forging a
                    Community." Discussing the neighborhoods, voluntary organizations, and political coalitions
                    that comprised the Packingtown environs, she argues that a variety of ethnic, fraternal, and
                    religious organizations provided the "social anchors" for the township's
                    "wonderful growth." If this assertion is valid, then Wade does not adequately
                    explain why a majority of voters endorsed annexation in the 1888 plebiscite.
            The analytical weaknesses of 
                        Chicago
                    's Pride do not negate the fact that Wade has produced a first-rate piece of
                    research. Perhaps the best quotation is from a brief section dealing with working conditions for
                    women. 
                        Chicago
                     reporter Nell Nelson took a job in an Armour cannery and discovered that the only place
                    she could sit down to eat her lunch was on a windowsill. She wrote that it was "certainly
                    very good of Mr. Armour to build Sunday-schools, educate struggling artists, buy pictures, and
                    patronize music," but "a clean sitting-room … and chairs in which to
                    rest at noon … would not be wasted charity" (p. 229).
            To some, Packingtown may have been "
                            Chicago
                        's Pride." To many others, at least after publication of The
                    Jungle, it would symbolize 
                        Chicago
                    's shame.
            James B. Lane, Indiana University Northwest, Gary
            
         
         
            
               A 
                            Kentucky
                         Album: Farm Security Administration Photographs, 1935–1943. Edited
                    by Beverly W. Brannan and David Horvath. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1986. Pp. xi, 148. Illustrations, bibliography. $25.00.)
            During the 1930s photography came of age in the 
                        United States
                    . Photographs became the dominant form of expression in advertising; in 1932 a Gallup
                    survey of four thousand readers ranked photographs more effective than other forms of illustration.
                    Two popular journals based on a pictorial approach to news reporting, Life and Look, were founded.
                    In 
                        Washington
                    , D. C., a small federal agency was created to document programs dealing with the plight
                    of the rural poor. Headed by Roy E. Stryker, a social scientist from 
                        Columbia
                     University, this Historical Section of the Farm Security Administration produced the
                    best pictorial record ever assembled. Covering virtually all aspects of American life, the FSA
                    Collection at the Library of Congress includes approximately one hundred thousand captioned prints.
            
            Beverly W. Brannan and David Horvath have selected and organized an outstanding set of images for
                    their 
                        Kentucky
                     album. A native of the Bluegrass state, Brannan is curator of the photo-graphic
                    collection at the Library of Congress. Horvath, the compiler of an excellent guide to the Roy E.
                    Stryker papers, holds a similar position at the University of 
                        Louisville
                    . Their familiarity with both the pictorial and the written record is evident
                    through-out the book.
            The editors selected 127 images that portray life in 
                        Kentucky
                     from 1935 to 1943. Most of the pictures represent activities in the Appalachian region
                    of eastern 
                        Kentucky
                     and the bluegrass section near 
                        Lexington
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    . The photographs are organized around eight major topics with an introductory essay for
                    each section: education, religion, transportation, social gatherings, towns and cities, agriculture
                    (tobacco), coal mining, and the home front. While a number of the twelve major FSA photographers,
                    including Russell Lee, Arthur Rothstein, Ben Shahn, John Vachon, and Carl Mydans, are represented,
                    the great majority of the selections were taken by 
                        Marion
                     Post Wolcott, a free lance professional who joined the FSA staff in 1938.
            None of these photographers were natives of either 
                        Kentucky
                     or the South; they were, in the words of the editors, "just
                    visiting." Yet their images of the daily activities of ordinary people bring back such
                    vignettes of American life as the one-room school, a fish fry, a county fair, a baptism, a funeral,
                    and various scenes of work and play. The power of visual images to teach and inform is evident
                    throughout A 
                        Kentucky
                     Album. As the 
                        Kentucky
                     poet, Jim 
                        Wayne
                     Miller, writes in his lyrical introduction to this volume, these photographs
                    "help us to understand who we are and who we might yet be by showing us who—not
                    so long ago—we were" (p. x).
            Robert L. Reid, University of Southern Indiana, 
                            Evansville
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Atlas of Great Lakes Indian History. Edited by Helen Hornbeck Tanner et al.;
                    cartography by Miklos Pinther. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, for the Newberry Library, 1987. Pp. xi, 224. Maps, illustrations, tables,
                    bibliographic essay, selected bibliography, index. $75.00.)
            With the completion of the Atlas of Early American History: The Revolutionary Era,
                    1760–1790, the Newberry Library em-barked on another exciting atlas project, the Atlas of
                    Great Lakes Indian History. Published by the University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press in their Civilization of the American Indian Series, the atlas took shape under
                    the able editorship of historian Helen Hornbeck Tanner with generous foundation support, including
                    aid from the National Endowment for the Humanities. Tanner, who devoted ten 
                    
                  
                  Reproduced from Helen Hornbeck Tanner, et al., eds., Atlas of
                                Great Lakes Indian History (
                                Norman
                            , Okla., 1987), map 20, pp. 98-99.
               
                     years to the research and writing of the atlas, came to the
                    project after many years as an expert witness in Indian land claims cases. In this capacity she came
                    to know Erminie Wheeler-Voegelin, who was professor of history and ethnohistory at Indiana
                    University. The atlas is dedicated to Dr. Wheeler-Voegelin.
            The atlas spans a period of approximately three centuries from the 1600s to the 1880s and encompasses
                    the area of western 
                        New York
                    , the Old Northwest, and what was once called upper 
                        Canada
                    . The history and location of Indian settlement is sketched from pre-historic times
                    through the French, British, and American wars to the end of the nineteenth century. The bulk of the
                    atlas, however, consists of two synchronic sections. In six chapters entitled "Frontier in
                    Transition," which cover the period from 1770 to 1790, and in another six entitled
                    "Indian Villages," which focus on the 1830s, the organization proceeds not
                    chronologically but geographically from East to West. The chapters, however, are more than just an
                    enumeration of settlements in the last half of the eighteenth century or of the locations of Indian
                    settlements in 
                        Ohio
                     or Indiana in the 1830s. The text provides an account of the events that led a
                    particular tribe to locate in a particular place. Finally, there are topical chapters that serve to
                    define the limits of settlement or population growth. These embrace such subjects as natural
                    vegetation circa 1600, subsistence patterns, and epidemics. Each chapter contains at least one map
                    correlated with the text of the chapter.
            Although specialists may quibble over the location of a particular village or the dates that it was
                    inhabited, the atlas is a valuable and long-needed resource. The text is clear and concise and draws
                    upon an extensive bibliography. The thirty-six color maps, by Miklos Pinther, are easy to read and
                    visually attractive. Sepia-tone pictures drawn from the works of Henry R. Schoolcraft and others
                    enhance the text. In all, the atlas is both valuable and elegant and promises to be useful both to
                    scholars and others interested in the history and Indians of the Old Northwest.
            Robert E. Bieder, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Historical Directory of American Agricultural Fairs. By Donald B. Marti. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1986. Pp. ix, 300. Notes, appendix, note on sources, index.
                    $55.00.)
            Donald B. Marti has undertaken the unenviable task of selecting supposedly significant and
                    representative agricultural fairs for this modest-sized directory. Although there are several
                    thousand fairs and festivals held each year in the 
                        United States
                    , the author has chosen only 205 of them for inclusion in this volume. Each entry
                    contains succinct data (from one paragraph to two pages in length) covering such items as the
                    fair's brief history, location, attendance,  types of
                    displays, sponsorship, and unique characteristics, as well as a brief bibliography.
            The value of this work is enhanced by a scholarly introductory essay (with footnotes) that presents a
                    brief but illuminating history of agricultural fairs in the 
                        United States
                    . They came to this country from Europe, but nowhere in the world have they become more
                    popular than in America. Every state in the union has an annual agricultural fair of some kind. For
                    many contemporary city people the state, county, or privately sponsored agricultural fair (say by
                    the 4-H clubs or Future Farmers of America) is often the only contact they have with a rural
                    institution that symbolizes a link with past farm heritage.
            Some interesting facts emerge from this selective but well-written directory. The largest state fair
                    (in terms of attendance) is that of 
                        Texas
                    , and the largest county fair is the 
                        Los Angeles County
                     Fair at Pomona. The Indiana State Fair is the fifth largest in the nation. Its present
                    location in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was established in 1892. In the Great Depression of the 1930s the Works Progress
                    Administration erected some of the buildings on the fairgrounds. The WPA was also responsible for
                    the construction of similar permanent buildings in other states. If the number of entries in
                    Marti's directory is proportional to actual incidence, the geographical area most heavily
                    represented by agricultural fairs is the Midwest. Fairs range in diversity from the kinds typical to
                    Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     to the varieties found in other sections of the country, such as the National 
                        Orange
                     Show in San Bernardino or the Navajo Nation Fair in Window Rock, 
                        Arizona
                    .
            The usefulness of this directory is increased by an appendix that lists all agricultural fairs by
                    state, a valuable note on sources, and a thorough index. Although it seems overpriced for its size,
                    it should prove a handy reference work for agricultural historians, rural sociologists, educators,
                    members of farm organizations, and those just interested in attending or knowing more about
                    agricultural fairs.
            Edward L. Schapsmeier, 
                  
                            Illinois State
                         University, Normal
            
         
         
            
               A Machine That Would Go of Itself: The Constitution in American Culture. By
                    Michael Kammen. (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, 1986. Pp. xxii, 532. Illustrations, figure, appendixes, tables,
                    notes, note on sources, index. $29.95.)
            Michael Kammen's book is a survey of American perceptions and understanding of the
                    Constitution of the 
                        United States
                     over the past two hundred years. The author reviews attitudes toward the document held
                    by generations of politicians, judges, educators, foreign observers, and the American public. He
                    concludes that the Constitution has endured successfully in spite of a substantial  amount of ignorance, misunderstanding, and lack of concern. Public
                    perceptions of the document have been shaped not by thorough study but by often inadequate teaching
                    in the schools, by periodic celebrations and publicity surrounding the anniversaries of its
                    drafting, and, particularly in the twentieth century, by the periodic eruption of controversy over
                    constitutional issues.
            The Constitution did not become important as a national symbol until about 1860. Prior to that time
                    general lack of knowledge about the document was not alleviated by the few school textbooks of the
                    day. The proceedings of the Constitutional Convention were not published for several decades, and
                    potential experts such as James 
                        Madison
                    , who could have clarified and explained the document's contents, chose not to
                    do so. Supreme Court judges, with few exceptions, did not see themselves as interpreters for public
                    edification. Even the celebration planned for the Constitution's fiftieth anniversary in
                    1837 was blighted by a severe depression.
            The Constitution received widespread attention in the 1860s as a basis for many of the issues debated
                    during the Civil War and as a result of amendments proposed during Reconstruction. The celebration
                    of the document's centennial in 1887, though marred by poor planning and insufficient
                    funding, served to arouse a certain amount of interest that carried on into the twentieth century.
            The vigorous debates of the Progressive Era and the simultaneous publication of important books on
                    constitutional topics by scholars such as Charles 
                        Warren
                     and Charles A. Beard gave impetus to calls in the 1920s for better public education
                    about the Constitution. Periodic celebration of September 17 as Constitution Day, the publication of
                    a few handbooks on the Constitution, and emphasis on questioning applicants for citizenship about
                    their understanding of the document were the chief results. General public interest in some aspects
                    of the Constitution was sparked by the court-packing controversy of 1937, but many scholars
                    ex-pressed concern that the general public tended to equate the Constitution with the Supreme Court.
            The role of the Constitution in the resolution of controversial issues in recent times does not seem
                    to have improved general knowledge about the document. A variety of polls have indicated widespread
                    ignorance concerning the provisions of the Constitution and the Bill of Rights, a situation Kammen
                    feels is likely to continue. He sees some potential for the media, especially television, to aid in
                    improving the state of affairs through carefully prepared documentaries and interviews and through
                    television coverage of Supreme Court proceedings.
            The title, A Machine That Would Go of Itself, is taken from a frequently quoted
                    comment made by James Russell 
                        Lowell
                     in the 1880s. Kammen uses it to underscore his opinion that the Constitution is not
                    self-executing but needs widespread study and understanding. 
                    Intended for a lay audience, his book is informative, entertaining, and at times witty. Liberally
                    sprinkled with quotations and references to published materials concerning the Constitution, this
                    work awakens the reader to the amazing durability and flexibility of this seminal document and to
                    the importance of every American's having a solid acquaintance with it.
            Rebecca S. Shoemaker, Indiana State University, 
                            Terre Haute
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Free Trade and Sailors' Rights: A Bibliography of the War of 1812.
                    Compiled by John C. Fredriksen. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1985. Pp. xiii, 399. Appendixes, index. $45.00.)
            The War of 1812 was not as encompassing, popular, or decisive as other American wars according to
                    John C. Fredriksen in the preface to Free Trade and Sailors' Rights, his bibliography on
                    the war. And despite the profound effect that war had on the development of the 
                        United States
                     as a nation and a military power and on its "manifest destiny," no
                    comprehensive reference works existed on the subject until a couple of years ago.
            The more than 5,000 entries in Fredriksen's bibliography are rivaled only by the 1,300
                    annotated entries in Dwight L. Smith's The War of 1812: An Annotated
                        Bibliography (
                            New York
                        : Garland Publishing Co., Inc., 1985). They include dissertations, texts, book
                    chapters, articles, and manuscripts and cover a time period from 1811 to 1984. The entries are
                    arranged by subject with several cross-references. While the subject headings and subheadings are
                    out-lined in the table of contents, closer examination yields some surprises: subheadings are even
                    further divided into bibliographies for battles and military and political figures (e.g., Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , Tecumseh). The subheadings can also be found by using the comprehensive, but awkward,
                    index.
            
               Free Trade and Sailors' Rights includes some helpful appendixes and a list
                    of manuscript resources. Only the collections of the Indiana Historical Society and Indiana
                    University's Lilly Library are listed. Surely the Indiana State Library and institutions at
                            
                  Lafayette, Fort
                            Wayne
               , and 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, have some manuscripts worth noting. A list of significant works of fiction
                    and an author index might have made interesting additions to this bibliography, although they may
                    have served only as distractions from the geographical orientation of the book. Free Trade and
                    Sailors' Rights substantially fills the need of scholars and librarians for a comprehensive
                    reference work on the War of 1812. Fredriksen has a clear and broad view of the early history of the 
                        United States
                    . Readers should look forward to his further contributions to the history of that era.
            Donald W. Maxwell, 
                  
                            Noblesville
                         Southeastern Public Library, 
                            Noblesville
                        , Ind.
            
         
         
         
            
               Imperialism and Idealism: American Diplomats in 
                            China
                        , 1861–1891. By David L. Anderson. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1985. Pp. ix, 237. Map, illustrations, appendix, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $24.95.)
            Imperialism and idealism, according to David L. Anderson, shaped 
                        United States
                     policy toward 
                        China
                     in the last half of the nineteenth century. Often aligning American interests with
                    those of the western colonial powers, the imperialists asserted the primacy of material concerns.
                    Considering it important to share the uniqueness of American political values with others, idealists
                    sought to protect Chinese independence and self-determination. Imperialism and idealism
                    "formed a potent prescription for the expansion of American influence in the
                    world" (p. 3).
            Among those who would expand American influence in 
                        China
                    , Anderson maintains, were the eight men who represented the 
                        United States
                     in Peking from 1861 to 1898. They are the subjects of this study. In six chapters the
                    author analyzes the envoys' thoughts and actions, from Anson Burlingame, an idealist and
                    "self-proclaimed harmonizer of the Eastern and Western civilizations" (p. 16) who
                    emphasized reconciliation and cooperation, to Charles Denby, a former Indiana state legislator who
                    "usually, although not consistently" (p. 144), took the imperialist position.
                    Anderson characterizes American policy in 
                        China
                     as inconsistent and ambiguous. Dualisms prevailed: moralism and materialism, liberalism
                    and conservatism, altruism and self-interest, interventionism and isolationism. Almost every
                    minister had a different opinion on what to emphasize. Some held firm to either imperialism or
                    idealism; others vacillated. In an epilogue Anderson argues that John Hay's famous open
                    door notes integrated the conflicting policies, ending decades of ambivalence. The 
                        United States
                     "began the twentieth century possessing a 
                        China
                     policy with laudable objectives that merged U. S. interests and ideals" (p.
                    188).
            The paradoxical element in the American 
                        China
                     policy-the conflict between pursuit of survival instincts and altruistic restraint-is
                    part of America's cultural identity. The roots of this paradox reach back to the
                    experiences of the early European colonists in their simultaneous quest for material survival and
                    political self-determination. The nineteenth century envoys to 
                        China
                     were its representatives.
            Lucid and well written, this is an important study that should be read by students of 
                        United States
                    -Sino relations and American expansionism. The approach is one dimensional. Ties between
                    the envoys and the historical past and between the envoys and State Department officialdom are thin.
                    Events, moreover, are not viewed from the perspective of the Chinese or from that of the European
                    colonial powers. The importance of this study is in the direction  that it gives to a fuller understanding of what motivated American 
                        China
                     policy in the nineteenth century.
            James A. Zimmerman, Tri-State University, 
                            Angola
                        , Ind.
            
         
         
            
               The Decline of Popular Politics: The American North, 1865–1928. By
                    Michael E. McGerr. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1986. Pp. ix, 307. Notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $24.95.)
            This study considers the neglected subject of campaign styles; and, by linking the topic with recent
                    findings on voter turnout, Michael E. McGerr attempts to explain how and why the political system
                    changed between the 1860s and the 1930s. The issues are important, and the book is often insightful.
                    Unfortunately, it is also seriously flawed on conceptual and factual grounds.
            The author nicely describes the political world of the 1860s and 1870s: the partisanship of voters
                    and newspapers and the high level of participation in the clubs and parades that typified the
                    "spectacular" campaign style. Mugwumps challenged this system, unsuccessfully at
                    first, but their influence and example grew during the 1880s. In 1892 both parties adopted an
                    "educational" campaign style-one that included polls, pamphlets, and better
                    organization. McGerr argues that this kind of campaigning bored voters; hence, in 1896 the parties
                    began shifting to an "advertised" campaign: packaging candidates, using posters
                    and slogans, emphasizing the candidate's personality, and centralizing control in the
                    national party headquarters. Newspapers were similarly trans-formed, as the old partisan style was
                    increasingly replaced by in-dependent or sensational journalism. McGerr concludes with a useful
                    discussion of the reaction to low voter turnout during the 1920s.
            Although McGerr correctly assesses the beginning and end phases of this transformation in campaign
                    styles, he fails to show where and when it took place. The changing balance between local, state,
                    and national control of campaigns is poorly described and never proven. The analysis of local
                    campaigns relies excessively on 
                        New York City
                     and 
                        New Haven
                    —reflecting an overdependence on newspapers from those cities. Using
                    contemporary state party histories (and existing historical studies) would have corrected this
                    problem and the neglect of important midwestern states. McGerr could have learned, for example, that
                    serious polling and a state organization of clubs did not originate on the east coast in the
                    mid-1880s but existed in Indiana in 1880. Such sources would also have provided data for his
                    essentially unverified claims about the nature of campaigns after 1900, which assertions are untrue
                    for Indiana and probably for elsewhere as well.
            
            Most important, the explanation of how and why the transformation occurred is too simple and ignores
                    the political implications of fundamental socioeconomic development in this era. McGerr notes the
                    impact of some specific changes but misses the consequences of broader patterns-such as the way
                    urbanization and improvements in transportation destroyed the necessity and rationale for local
                    campaigns. He is correct that lower turnout did not occur because the wealthy conspired, but he
                    neglects the broader truth that many people feared and wished to reduce the political influence of
                    ethnic and racial minorities and the lower class. In addition, McGerr's notion that
                    partisanship shaped political style and participation is incomplete. Partisanship was itself shaped
                    by socioeconomic and cultural forces and by factors like party organization, which also directly
                    influenced political style and participation.
            Philip R. VanderMeer, 
                  
                            Arizona State
                         University, Tempe
            
         
         
            
               Solidarity and Fragmentation: Working People and Class Consciousness in 
                            Detroit
                        , 1875–1900. By Richard Jules Oestreicher. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1986. Pp. xix, 263. Notes, tables, illustrations, figures, note on sources,
                    index. $24.95.)
            The social changes wrought by industrialization and urbanization in the late nineteenth century,
                    Richard Jules Oestreicher states, produced within the working class "intertwining
                    tendencies toward class solidarity and fragmentation" (p. xviii). Offering 
                        Detroit
                     as a case study, Oestreicher examines on one hand the emergence in that city of a
                    "subculture of opposition" that provided the basis for expressions of
                    working-class unity and on the other hand the ethnic and occupational differences that undermined
                    class consciousness and collective action. Oestreicher's laudable goal is to link the
                    familiar aspects of Gilded Age labor history—the rise of the American Federation of Labor
                    and the Knights of Labor and the 1886 strikes for the eight-hour day—to the social
                    history of 
                        Detroit
                    's workers. In so doing he revises standard interpretations of the labor
                    movement in the 1880s and offers a new perspective on working-class behavior and consciousness in
                    late nineteenth century America.
            The sources of fragmentation within the urban working class were manifold. 
                        Detroit
                    's varied industrial economy accounted for diverse occupational experiences.
                    Large factories increased in number, but small shops did not disappear; even within an industry the
                    scale and organization of production varied. There were both contrasts between skilled and unskilled
                    workers as well as variations in the wages and working conditions within the skilled ranks.  Ethnic differences further divided the working class. Not only
                    did each nationality occupy a different position within the local economy but the internal strength
                    of each of the different ethnic communities also made class unity seem an impossible goal.
                    Oestreicher, however, is unwilling to accept the class versus ethnicity approach to American labor
                    history. Turning to the specific class character of the ethnic communities, Oestreicher emphasizes
                    their shared dependence on wages and their fundamental insecurity due to frequent layoffs, illness
                    or accident, and arbitrary discipline. He also notes the shared commitment to mutualism, solidarity,
                    and egalitarian politics, values that conflicted with middle-class ideas of competition,
                    individualism, and personal success.
            These bonds were resources for those who tried in the 1880s to build a subculture of opposition by
                    providing the institutions or vehicles necessary for the assertion of working-class consciousness
                    and mobilization for class action. Evidenced by a strong labor press, increased numbers of
                    educational forums and social events, and a vigorous Independent Labor party, this subculture was
                    most overtly manifested in the expansion of the 
                        Detroit
                     labor movement. What fueled this expansion was the rise of the Knights of Labor. The
                    order's rituals of fraternalism, centralized structure, spirit of solidarity, and stimulus
                    toward industrial organization not only recruited more 
                        Detroit
                     workers into the ranks of organized labor but generated a spirit that could transcend
                    class fragmentation. The greatest moments for the subculture occurred in 1886 when thou-sands of 
                        Detroit
                     workers struck for the eight-hour day, marched in a Labor Day demonstration, and voted
                    for Independent Labor party candidates. Oestreicher attributes the loss of solidarity and absence of
                    collective action after 1886 to factionalism among the leaders of the various labor organizations.
                    The sudden increases in membership intensified conflicts that preoccupied the organizations just
                    when they needed to serve as vehicles for discussion, co-operation, and mobilization. The new
                    recruits faded away and the movement dissolved. The craft unions survived; but the Knights, the
                    group most representative of the city's workers, did not, and neither did the subculture of
                    opposition.
            Oestreicher's analysis of the rise and fall of the Knights in 
                        Detroit
                     challenges the conventional view that the order represented middle-class reformism
                    whereas the AFL's business union-ism more accurately expressed the perspective of the
                    working class. Both organizations, Oestreicher shows, had internal divisions as serious as those
                    between them; both suffered the consequences in terms of collective bargaining and membership. By
                    rooting the history of the labor movement in the experience of 
                        Detroit
                    's working people, Oestreicher also suggests the greater power of the Knights
                    to mobilize class-conscious activism. The book is most successful as a careful, well-researched, and
                    thoughtful study of the 
                        Detroit
                     labor  movement in the last decades of the
                    nineteenth century. Al-though Oestreicher is careful to qualify his claims, he tends either to
                    accept uncritically the observations of contemporary labor activists or offers scant evidence for
                    his own assertions about the attitudes and behavior of the mass of 
                        Detroit
                    's workers and their families. These problems, however, do not diminish the
                    importance of the questions asked or the significance of the arguments advanced in this major
                    contribution to late nineteenth century labor history.
            Nancy Gabin, Purdue University, West 
                            Lafayette
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Immigrants on the Hill: Italian-Americans in 
                            St. Louis
                        , 1882–1982. By Gary Ross Mormino. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1986. Pp. xi, 289. Notes, tables, illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $21.95.)
            "The Hill," an Italian neighborhood on 
                        St. Louis
                    's southwest side, has been well served by Gary Ross Mormino, who is part of
                    the movement in Italian-American immigrant research that believes another understanding of
                    immigration results from studying the newcomers in settings away from the major centers of
                    settlement. The numbers of immigrants and the kind of employment they find affect their response to
                    the dominant group, the longevity of their ethnic consciousness, and their attitudes toward
                    education and social mobility.
            As described by Mormino, the Hill differs from Indiana's Italian communities and others
                    already studied. Ninety percent of its residents today are descendants of the original immigrants.
                    Al-though density has declined and the average age has risen, the vitality of community and
                    religious organizations guarantees the continued existence of the Hill as a cultural enclave.
                    Mormino believes that this stability results from unique historical and geographical factors.
                    Conscious of the push-pull theory of immigration, he visited the Lombard towns from which most of
                    the Hill's immigrants originated. Since many had the same motive (economic improvement) and
                    came from the same district, he concludes that the first reason for the Hill's stability is
                    that its immigrant residents were not uprooted, but transplanted. They then settled in a
                    self-contained area delineated by rivers and factories insulated from downtown 
                        St. Louis
                    . All had the goal of home ownership, made possible with savings from hard work in the
                    clay mines and factories supplemented by illegal earnings during Prohibition. Emphasis on sports
                    (Yogi Berra and Joe Garagiola are Hill products) also contributed to community solidarity by
                    reducing tension with the Sicilian minority and making juvenile delinquency unlikely. The
                    neighborhood's close family ties, competent political bosses, and generous parish priests
                    softened the blows of the GY'eat Depression  and World
                    War II and created an atmosphere that induced descendants of immigrants to remain there.
            Mormino faultlessly summarizes other historians' conclusions, contrasts them with his own in
                    a masterly fashion, and writes in a delightfully clear style. Some minor distractions, however,
                    could have been eliminated if he had had a Catholic reader. For instance, St. Ambrose was not first
                    bishop of Milan (p. 153), and John Cody was never cardinal archbishop of 
                        St. Louis
                     (p. 233).
            In his epilogue the author concludes that "Italian-American history is ultimately local
                    history, the story of how specific individuals from specific old-world villages settled in specific
                    new-world settings" (p. 254). This study is a welcome, major contribution in that
                    direction.
            James J. Divita, Marian College, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Pershing: General of the Armies. By Donald Smythe. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1986. Pp. xii, 399. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $27.50.)
            To the casual historian John J. "Black Jack" Pershing is a name that conjures up
                    the image of an all-powerful, intelligent, strong-willed, humorless, colorless, and perhaps
                    insensitive man who had his brief moment of glory and influence during American involvement in World
                    War I. Perhaps the reader knows a little about Pershing's involvement in 
                        Mexico
                     before the war, but probably he will not know much else. Donald Smythe has attempted to
                    bring Pershing the man to life in this second volume of a two-volume biography. In this effort the
                    author has done as well as any biographer could.
            Smythe's first and easiest task was to take Pershing out of his World War I vacuum and
                    describe his long life. (He was born in 1860 and lived to see the conclusion of World War II.) In
                    volume I Smythe covers his subject's career through the Punitive Expedition in 1916. The
                    majority of the second volume deals with Pershing's World War I experiences.
                    Pershing's initial popularity among the French people and the war-weary Allied armies faded
                    as it became obvious that he was not going to allow American troops to be used as fillers in British
                    and French units but insisted that an American army, commanded by Americans, be established. Indeed,
                    Smythe shows that Pershing spent more time arguing this point with his allies that he did fighting
                    the Germans. Only in the last few months of the war did the Americans become a significant force. Of
                    course, it can be argued, as both Pershing and Smythe do, that when the Americans finally got into
                    the fighting, the tide quickly turned.
            Smythe deals with the remaining thirty years of Pershing's life in only seventy pages. The
                    general's abortive semi-attempt at the presidency in 1920, his tenure as chief of staff,
                    his Pulitzer-Prize-winning  memoirs, and his years in retirement
                    receive short shrift. Perhaps this is appropriate. Pershing's hour was
                    1917–1918.
            In a second and more difficult task—that of fleshing out the man—Smythe is less
                    successful. The character that is revealed in his book is remarkably close to the stiff, inflexible,
                    humorless character with whom readers are already familiar. In a word, Smythe's Pershing
                    seems to have little depth. In his least successful chapter, "Portrait of
                    Pershing," Smythe claims a sense of humor for the general but is not convincing. By
                    choosing examples that are racist and sexist (pp. 241-42), he has muddied Pershing without
                    explaining him. It is difficult to know whether these stories reflect Pershing's own
                    inclinations or merely show the author's insensitivity to these is-sues. Still, a
                    biographer cannot create a subject, and it may well be that what Pershing revealed to the world was
                    all that there was.
            The author has done an enormous amount of research, which explains why there is a thirteen-year
                    hiatus between the two volumes of the biography. The bibliography runs thirty-three pages and is
                    exhaustive and helpful. The notes, however, are decidedly unmanageable. Not only are they not at the
                    bottom of the page—this reviewer gave up that fight long ago—they are not even
                    in one place. To utilize the notes one must go to the notes in the back, find a code, and from there
                    go to the bibliography and match the code to the appropriate entry. This is a maddening system, and
                    one which no publisher should allow.
            Nevertheless, the book is, on the whole, a good one. It gives a great deal of information about
                    American involvement in World War I and explains well the pressures that Pershing and other American
                    commanders were under from the Allies as well as the military establishment back home. Gracefully
                    written, it flows easily, with excitement and suspense woven in. It will be invaluable to students
                    of American military history, yet can be enjoyed by more casual readers—as long as they
                    are not interested in the citations.
            Raymond L. Shoemaker, Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Spheres of Liberty: Changing Perceptions of Liberty in American Culture. By
                    Michael Kammen. (
                        Madison
                    : University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 1986. Pp. xiv, 191. Illustrations, notes, index. $19.50.)
            I am writing this review during a Fulbright year in Taipei where I often pass a factory that builds
                    and displays two-story statues of liberty. Michael Kammen's history of liberty in American
                    culture from 1640 to the present, a volume growing out of the Merle Curti Lectures of
                    1985–1986, helps me invest this scene with meaning. 
                    However, Kammen's variety of intellectual history also leaves me seeking alternative
                    approaches.
            Kammen divides the history of liberty in America into three periods. Leading American colonists, like
                    British writers and politicians of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, most frequently
                    contemplated liberty's tension with authority or conceptually bound liberty with property.
                    After the Revolution both notions of liberty lived on, but Americans in addition considered
                    liberty's relationship to social order. Then, with the promise of "liberty and
                    justice for all" from the 1892 Pledge of Allegiance heralding the future, twentieth-century
                    Americans began to characterize liberty as the broad participation of all citizens in public
                    affairs. Earlier understandings again survived, but jurists and others were increasingly likely to
                    link liberty and social justice. Today's conservatives might frown, taking liberty to be
                    primarily a negative notion restricting governmental power. Nevertheless, Kammen not only forcefully
                    demonstrates the conceptual linkage of liberty and positive governmental enhancement of rights in
                    midcentury America but also ransacks earlier writings and speeches for similar thinking.
            Beyond its designated subject matter, Spheres of Liberty is a self-conscious
                    exercise in concept-based intellectual history. Kam-men is a traditionalist. He appreciates the
                    fundamental connections of thought and language, but his work resembles more the 
                  
                            Oxford
                         English Dictionary's recording of changing meanings than Michel
                    Foucault's flourishes. The author includes paintings and artifacts featuring eagles or Lady
                    Liberty herself and appends brief notes on American iconography; but, really, he lacks enthusiasm
                    for material, folk, or popular culture. A concept such as liberty in his opinion cannot be neatly
                    packaged, and Kammen prefers contemplating sustained and sophisticated treatments of the concept
                    instead of popular slogans, cliches, or rhetoric. His preference is, for the most part, apt. The
                    concept has an amazing diachronic reach, and its synchronic variations are fascinating. In different
                    eras the concept of liberty merges and contrasts with many other concepts.
            Yet, as I stand before a giant statue on a Taipei street, I would like additional ways to critique
                    liberty in American culture. Undeniably, students and scholars can learn much about a
                    people's values and priorities by considering articulate treatments of a key concept over
                    time. But affecting and altering the nation's directions also requires confronting the
                    common expressions, raw ideology, and plaster behemoths that tower over us.
            David Ray Papke, Indiana University School of Law, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
         
         
         
            
               Material Culture: A Research Guide. Edited by Thomas J. Schlereth. (Lawrence:
                    University Press of 
                        Kansas
                    , 1985. Pp. xiv, 224. Notes, selected bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $25.00; paperbound, $9.95.)
            This book contains articles by six different authors—Pierce F. Lewis, Dell Upton, Kenneth
                    L. Ames, Carroll W. Pursell, Jr., Simon J. Bronner, and Thomas J. Schlereth—on subjects
                    ranging from architecture to technology. The editor notes that the "book's chief
                    concern is to assess the major material cultural scholarship of the past two decades" (p.
                    197). In so doing this volume recognizes the "interrelation between the study of material
                    culture and American studies" (p. x).
            The essays are wide ranging. Lewis, in discussing writings on the "American
                    Landscape," raises interesting and valid questions such as why "Americans [are]
                    embarrassingly deprived in their geographic education" (p. 49). In fact, this embarrassment
                    seems to be a continuing problem of serious dimensions in education. Ames writes about "The
                    Stuff of Everyday Life" and offers an excellent overview of the studies in decorative arts
                    and furniture. He notes, "Students of objects still do not really understand collecting,
                    the behavior that is the eternal parent of this field" (p. 103). This lack of understanding
                    is, in fact, a problem that pervades the entire field of material culture study; especially in
                    academia. Academics by and large do not understand how to use museum objects.
            
               Material Culture fulfills its basic purpose by providing useful bibliographies both
                    in general and specifically with each article. Having done this, it is perhaps unfair to expect any
                    new ideas in the book. There are very few.
            The problems with the volume are several. There is a distinct impression conveyed that the study of
                    material culture has been invented in the academic field. In fact, the best museums have been doing
                    this kind of study for years, a fact that gets short shrift. It is not surprising, then, that only
                    one of the writers, Ames, is even associated with a museum. None of the rest of the contributors are
                    museum professionals or seem to have any museum experience. This does not prevent Schlereth from
                    raising museum questions but not following through on them. He writes, for example, "Museum
                    collections of the past have been criticized as being unrepresentative" (p. xi). Where is
                    this supposed to lead? What point is he making? Schlereth also refers to studies extending
                    "from a traditional art-history approach to social history perspective" (p. x).
                    Such a statement implies to this reviewer that traditional history museums have little or no roll in
                    these studies. Schlereth should be familiar with Ordinary People and Everyday Life, edited by James
                    B. Gardener and George Rollie Adams (
                        Nashville
                    , 1983), but the work is not cited. Readers interested in the subject of material
                    culture would do well to begin with that volume and reserve this one for additional bibliographic
                    needs.
            Lee Scott Theisen, Indiana State Museum and Historic Sites, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               
                  
                            Marion County
                        , Indiana: Records Miscellanea. Compiled by Jane E. Darlington. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1986. Pp. [545]. Illustration, index. $45.00.)
                    This book should be of great interest and assistance to the family historian needing 
                        Marion County
                     genealogical information. In one book Jane E. Darlington has compiled copies of little
                    used government records that provide a base for searching genealogical data. The book is divided
                    into seven parts: Naturalizations Filed 1832–1903; Naturalizations Filed
                    1904–1906; Delinquent Tax Returns for 1842; Probate Court Re-cord A 1822–1832;
                    Hack Licenses 1865–1871. The entire book is a useful compendium. The first section in
                    particular is fascinating. A sample entry (p. 8a) reads: 
                        BARRETT, Patrick
                        b. 20 May 1793 in 
                                Ireland
                            ; sailed from Sligo, 
                                Ireland
                            , on 12 April 1840; arrived in the U.S. ca. Oct. 1840 Owes allegiance to
                            Victoria, Queen of Great Britain Sworn and subscribed on 22 May 1843; filed same date
                    
            
            The book is highly recommended for its intended purpose. Lois Leamon, Hilton U. Brown
                        Library, 
                     Indianapolis-Marion County
                   Public Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana.
            
               A Historical Guide to the 
                            United States
                        
               . Prepared by the American Association for State and Local History. (
                        New York
                    : W. W. Norton & Company, 1986. Pp. 601. Illustrations, index.
                    $25.00.) Over 1,300 entries make up this canvass of major parks, museums, archives,
                    buildings, communities, trails, mines, bridges, monuments, battlegrounds, and so forth. The book is
                    arranged alphabetically by states. James B. Gardner and Timothy C. Jacobson, AASLH historians,
                    amplify three sites per state with essays that set the particulars in a broad context. Appended to
                    each section is an annotated slate of other attractions. The Indiana chapter contains essays on the
                    George Rogers Clark National Historical Park, Historic 
                        New Harmony
                    , Conner 
                        Prairie
                    , and a register of twenty-two additional sites, though excluding Metamora, 
                        Madison
                    , Hill-forest Mansion, and other notable places. Only 
                        Nevada
                     is allotted fewer listings. Hoosiers may feel slighted, but the book can be a useful
                    armchair travel guide, and the essays alone are worth the price. Robert M. Taylor, Jr.,
                        Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               .
         
         
         
            George Rogers Clark Trans–Appalachian Frontier History Conference
            The fifth annual George Rogers Clark Trans–Appalachian Frontier History Conference,
                    sponsored by the George Rogers Clark National Historical Park and Vincennes University, will be held
                    at Vincennes University, Vincennes, Indiana, on Saturday, October 3, 1987, from 9:30 a.m. to 4:30
                    p.m. Papers to be presented will deal with the activities of the Indians, French, British, and
                    Americans in the region between the Appalachian Mountains and the Mississippi River during the early
                    frontier period. Persons interested in attending the conference should contact the Conference
                    Committee, George Rogers Clark National Historical Park, 401 South Second Street, Vincennes, Indiana
                    47591.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
